ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Anton Rop, Marijan Pojbič, Milan Čadež and Mag. Andrea Richter. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the sitting on 8 January 2009. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing the item or extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on the partial subvention of full-time working time, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The text is given by the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for a further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me say in the introduction a few words that are important for understanding the proposal before you. The consequences of the financial crisis, which affected the world in 2008, are, as we know, reflected in economic activities in Slovenia, mainly in two ways: through the failure of the euro area interbank market and also through the decline in export demand in key Slovenian export markets. The consequences are also reflected in the labour market, as the number of unemployed has increased in recent months, and forecasts for this year are not promising. It is precisely with a view to preserving jobs, employment and thus ensuring social security of the population that the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law to facilitate the situation of the economy and protect employees during reduced economic activity. We hope, of course, that this time will be relatively short, so that the measure or law we have drawn up will play its role. The aim of the proposal for a law on partial full-time subsidisation before you is to mitigate the consequences of the coming economic crisis by providing assistance to employers and workers in cases where their joint decision is to reduce working time, rather than to forgive the unemployed or to forgive the workers and increase unemployment. The bill is based on the principle that in times of financial crisis it is necessary to strive to ensure employment and to maintain jobs, including through additional financial incentives to reduce full-time work. The law thus offers the possibility of partial full-time subsidisation. Let me stress that the law is without prejudice to the wage relations agreed upon by employers and employees in other forms. The main purpose is to maintain employment and maintain social security, which also means unspoiled working time and other social security. The law introduces a new instrument in the field of active employment policy, namely full-time subsidies, emphasis on "full-time". This measure will, on the one hand, allow full-time workers and, on the other hand, reduce wage costs for employers during times of crisis and protect the social treasury. In order to obtain a subsidy, the employer will have to comply with the conditions laid down in the law. Thus, during the period when he receives the subsidy, he will not be allowed to forgive workers, he will not be allowed to work overtime, he will not be allowed to pay the awards to the authorities of management and control, but he is also committed to paying the salaries and paying the contributions. The law foresees that the subsidy will amount to €60 and possibly an additional €15 to €60 per month per employee, depending on how much time they reduce. The measure will be granted for a maximum of six months from the first day of the following month following the application for a subsidy. The implementation of the law will require an estimated EUR 230 million in the state budget. Funding for the full-time subsidisation measure will be provided in the national budget balance for this year. We want to implement the law in a way that will ensure that employers have a simple process and a rapid acquisition of the subsidy, which has been highlighted several times in this National Assembly, as it will only achieve the purpose of the law, timely assistance to employers to mitigate the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Employers will apply for a subsidy to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, which will decide in the administrative procedure on the application by a decision, which is scheduled to take place within fourteen days. The employer will be able to apply for a four- or a maximum eight-hour reduction only once for a period of six months. If he continues to file a request for a four-hour reduction, he will be able to submit an additional application for a reduction from 36 hours to 32 hours. The implementation of the law will be monitored at several levels. Employers will have to report the number of employees per month as part of the payment application. The Institute will cross data on employees with the records of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance monthly and will determine whether the information is correct. In view of the involvement of the social partners, however, we expect mutual control to work in the implementation of this measure. In case [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u3	Mr. Minister, please, if you will finish your presentation slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u4	[[I will, thank you.]] Direct irregularities will be able to be addressed by the Ministry. [[...]] With this law, we want both employers and employers to receive assistance during the crisis and to share in some way the responsibility and burden of this crisis. Finally, let me add that they are preparing measures in the same direction in Germany and Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and disabled persons to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleague and colleague! That's a good-bye. The report of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs refers to the fact that at its 2nd meeting, the mother body addressed the proposal for a law on partial full-time subsidisation. We have also invited representatives of employers and employees to consider this law. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in more detail and drew attention to the modest explanations of the bill's proposal and considered it necessary to clarify it further and to clarify it. The service considered, inter alia, that the legal text, in relation to the questions of the time component, allows for different interpretations, raised the question of what is the subject of the subsidy at all, who is the recipient of the subsidy, the limitation of the management awards, and also pointed out the granting of the subsidy process itself, which it considered to be insufficiently precise and not a further procedure after the conclusion of the contract. Since the text provided does not provide for specific sanctions, the appropriateness of sanctioning abuses in the implementation of this law has also been raised. To the individual provisions of the law, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on Articles 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the proposal. The Committee was also presented with proposals for amendments to the Association of Employers of Slovenia, and amendments to the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia were also submitted. Proposals for amendments to the Committee following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service were also prepared and adopted by the Committee. The proposed law was also accompanied by amendments to the SDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to Articles 2 and 4 of the Act under consideration. Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, gave the introduction to a detailed explanation of the law. He also said that the drafter fully supported the proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which also address some of the concerns raised by employers and employees. In an additional presentation by the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative drew attention to the questions raised in the written opinion and said that the amendments proposed were being abolished. In the debate and in the individual solutions proposed, the members of the Committee paid the highest attention to Articles 1, 2 and 4 of the draft law. The bill was supported by all the parliamentary groups, as all the debaters agreed that the law was urgently needed, although there was insufficient action to address the issue. At the same time, some discussers stressed that the proposal for a law between the social partners is not fully coordinated, as it is not fully satisfied with both employers and employers. While the comments of the social partners were discussed in the Economic and Social Council on the measures put forward to address this problem, they did not discuss the concrete implementation adopted by law, so there was no broad public debate on the law itself. However, the law was interventional and solutions were sought for the benefit of all partners. The main purpose of the law is to preserve jobs, as the Minister has said in the introduction. In the view of the trade unions that these measures do not guarantee social security for workers, the minister explained that the state can co-finance full-time wages and that it does not have the resources to co-finance the entire pay gap. The broad debate took place mainly in Articles 2 and 4 of the Law. The amendment of the Committee to Article 2 took into account the comments of trade unions and employers that the basic dictatorship of Article 2 excludes employers who do not have an organised representative union in the company. Article 4 of the opposition's proposal was followed by a supplement to the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which contained a substantive summary of the SDS's amendment supplementing the conditions for granting the subsidy by prohibiting the assignment of overtime to workers. Thus, the Committee has drafted and adopted amendments to: Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the proposed law. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u8	Mr President, Mr President, the Honourable Minister, with his fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we support the complementary draft law on partial full-time subsidisation, which was duly supplemented by amendments to the Committee, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Almost all articles were amended, in particular in the direction of comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, and in part in view of the expectations of employers and trade unions. We believe that legislative proposals will be better prepared in the future at the government level, particularly through the help of the government's legislative service. In doing so, of course, we express our conviction that the matter there did not go "through" by accident if it was processed. Otherwise, it is our assessment of the law as a necessary measure to prevent an increase in unemployment due to the consequences of the global financial crisis. The company applying for a subsidy shall not forgive either the supervisors or the management of the prizes. This measure will, in our opinion, allow the employer to maintain the number of employees, despite the temporary reduction of orders, which will be a favourable starting point for the time when the full or larger production will run again. The fact is that no law will ever be enjoyed by everyone; it is not at all like those who would like the state to cover their entire salary. No one does this and, unfortunately, no country can afford it in the field, although the financial crisis. This bill is currently the most acceptable form of rapid assistance to employers and employees and to prevent mass forgiveness. The amendments that have been adopted have largely addressed the growing shortcomings that the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out, as well as partly taking into account the opinions of trade unions and employees. Let us recall that in some Slovenian companies they have already begun to reduce working hours, so it was essential that we bring this law into an acceptable form, which clarified the provisions in a way that could be applied successfully. We hope that we have also ensured that we have protected workers and their rights to the extent that they remain in a working relationship and that their social security will be ensured. The unions have warned us that 30 companies have already started working part-time, which means that the measure came last minute and is in a hurry with it. We would like to recall that we discussed similar problems at the December session when the government took different measures. We have already expressed our support in our Group for all those government measures that are going towards overcoming the problems of the economic crisis. We will also support this, in the hope that this is not the last measure and that, within all the measures envisaged, the matter will work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u10	Well, hello, all of you! Well, a man would expect the government to draw up a more consistent law, not that it will have to be processed on the committee to this extent, and that, in fact, there were several amendments to each article; not only were amendments, the amendments were also adopted. This is said to suggest to the Government, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that it take certain matters more seriously next time, but not genuinely, to try to fix something, and then the National Assembly will fix what can be corrected. The law itself, which of course we will support, solves matters to some extent. The Germans went into a different solution and for only three months proposed such a solution. We've been with us for six months. I'm afraid what happened before in the Slovenian industry is that we threw money out the window. Because instead of the government preparing the law in such a way that this money that we are going to invest in companies is considered to be some kind of interest-free loan that the company then returns at the time that it is doing well, no one even remembered it. In fact, when companies win, some will recharge their pockets. But in this case, after the calculation, the state will give about 230 million euros just like that, no one will return it. Given that we do not have any real control mechanisms, and even less sanctions for those who abuse this issue, I fear that a huge amount of money will flow to an unknown place. Rumor has it that the law will prevent workers from being forgiven. Perhaps this would not be so bad, for a lot of bad workers should be forgiven, not at the expense of other good workers in the company and devouring their space, bread, money, and everything else. And when it is said that administrations will not be allowed to pay the prizes, this applies only for a certain period of time. This is not true at all, because once these companies start to grow again, they will share the prizes again. As with the award-sharing, we see, yesterday it was on TV that Mr Kramar from Nova Ljubljanska Bank would receive 1 million Euros! Ha, please! Then why does the government even need such laws? 230 such "ticks" would already be found in Slovenia, which could be squeezed, but nothing should start the state budget. But of course, there would be some friends, friends of friends, political gentlemen, etc. As long as we do this, we won't do much. After all, as I have said before, 230 such "ticks" could be found peacefully, because according to the Member's salary we are Members very far behind for various directors of various public institutions and companies. And if we take what some gentlemen are counting on discharges, we are even Members of the House of Commons. There is talk of the National Assembly - mainly journalists who do not know what it is, and who are just full of parliamentary buffets, they say - how well it is served in the National Assembly, and no one says that about 50% of the employees in the National Assembly have about 500 euros in salaries. They don't care! So - the law of course, because I already said, we will support, but these solutions are not permanent. Such solutions are emergency solutions, and if we don't get back from these emergency solutions or something like that, it's gonna be a hell of a mess for this country. Because with us, companies are used to getting subsidies, getting money, and none of that. After all, let's look at the UI Vrhnnik. They were getting huge amounts of money, the money went missing, the factory went from Grund, and I'm sure in two months, when this factory was deleted, the same factory was set up in China and will work very well. Those gentlemen who stole the money and who are guilty of this happening - nothing! Nobody's gonna get hurt. And until one of these gentlemen gets hurt, so many of these things are just putting out a forest fire with a flower cankle to water.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the law is, of course, to preserve jobs, to re-establish the current crisis, thus ensuring social security for workers without the burden of businesses. The purpose of this law is good and, of course, we will support it in the Group of Members, as we also supported the urgent procedure, because the law needs to be adopted quickly. In adopting measures, however, we think that the three most important things in the Group of Members are: rapid and effective action to preserve jobs and maintain domestic businesses and production, monitoring the effects of measures and monitoring and ensuring the economic use of resources and preventing potential abuses. The purposes and objectives of the law are certainly correct and necessary. The law itself, and in general the proposal we received on the committee, was relatively poorly prepared, as my predecessors have already pointed out, so it also needed to be radically amended on the committee. According to Members of the SLS, there is a lack of more extensive and reasoned justifications, calculations and impact assessments, as this is a large budget, i.e. tax assets. Speaking of funds, I must warn you that the estimated number of funds we need is unrealistic. If we simply calculate the purpose of allocating funds to an employee and the projected use of funds from the budget, these figures do not appear to be well-coordinated. For this reason, I have personally proposed to the Home Committee that the Government or the Ministry prepare further justifications and explanations and assessments of how many enterprises or jobs are envisaged for the measure and the impact assessment of the measure. It also raises the question of what will happen after six months in individual companies and what measures will then be taken, given that the law is aimed at this period. With additions and amendments to the proposal on the Committee, the law is clearer and more precisely defines the conditions for the acquisition of subsidies and the procedure. Nevertheless, in the SLS Group, we would expect the Government and the Ministry to prepare others, according to our assessment, even more necessary measures, which will also ensure the continued existence of companies, greater investment in development and new investments. Although Article 1 of the amended proposal defines the issue of job retention, the question arises whether we will be able to maintain or prevent the closure of businesses or whether this measure will help businesses to adapt to the conditions required. It is clear, of course, that this measure is only one of the many that need to be taken in order to overcome the crisis. In the SLS Group, we think it is even more important that effective measures prevent the collapse and maintain domestic companies, which will also provide jobs for our citizens in the future. It should be borne in mind that social security is ensured only through work, with safe jobs, and that economic operators must therefore have conditions and a secure future for further successful business. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as I said in the introduction, we will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye! A nice greeting to the Minister with his coworkers! Colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we only understand the proposed law as one of the necessary measures in the set of proposals to limit the impact of the global economic crisis. It is a demanding task for the Government to come before the National Assembly with additional measures. The main purpose that we support in the LDS Club is to maintain jobs, because we can already face economic operators facing the economic crisis that are forced to forgive employees. Any job retention can be seen as a positive measure in the sense that the law touches those businesses and those sectors that are labour-intensive and where the business issue, which has good programmes and which have quality and well-trained employees, who are, because of the current decline in orders, before the dilemma, how to maintain the number of employees but at the same time survive a short-term difficult basic period. And, of course, in our House of Members, we think that the bill is going in the right direction. I am also joining a somewhat poor assessment by the proposaler that the law had to be substantially supplemented in the framework of the amendments. However, the discussion on the labour market, mainly by trade unions and employers, showed that additional measures are expected by the Government, in particular the view being expressed that the law should be adopted quickly and its provisions should also be implemented quickly. In this respect, the measures proposed by the Government are important, while the law imposes a very important responsibility on the one hand to employers and on the other hand to trade unions, which will have to seek the best solutions in mutual bargaining, and the law allows them here to approach assistance through partial subsidisation when the country enters into an agreement to reduce working time. In the LDS, we want to make it clear that we expect the competent ministry and the Employment Office to implement the law effectively, because this is one of the fundamental conditions for the effectiveness of this law and the effectiveness of the proposed measures. Here we expect that there will be a rapid resolution of the applications, that supervision of the use of funds will be ensured and that the measure will achieve everything with the law-based entities, irrespective of the nature of the business process and the nature of the work. In doing so, we are thinking mainly of those companies that will be able to reduce working time and those companies that are linked to 24-hour production and may not be able to do so. In particular, we stress the need to ensure adequate supervision, as the very well-designed concept of the law will have very little effect if the funds are not used deliberately. As I said before, at the LDS, we're going to support the marriage. We expect the Government to take additional measures to monitor the economic crisis ahead of the National Assembly; measures that will generally interfere with the decommissioning of the economy and will also be targeted at those sectors that now have development plans that can invest and are needed incentives to take advantage of their business advantage in severe competition, both on the European and on the global market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u16	Your Honor! The bill that we are considering today is of an intervention nature. It is one of the measures taken by the Government to address the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, which is already heavily anchored in the real sector. The current government, which has only a term of office of 2 months, has already faced a major challenge and responsibility at its inception. It has to solve a crisis that's got a good heat before it even starts working. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the Government's decision to include a job conservation measure among its actions, which is the main subject of the law before us today. It is the job that provides the highest level of social security for an individual, as well as a sense of social inclusion and benefit. We believe that it is better for all employees in a company to reduce the volume of work during a transitional period to reduce working time and maintain full employment than to reduce the number of jobs during unaltered working hours. In this way, the burden of the crisis can also be distributed more evenly among workers. The measure of subsidising full employment was selected as one of the measures to address the economic crisis and preserve jobs at the initiative of the social partners. Their initiatives have also been taken into account in the drafting of the amendments and additional proposals have also been included in the law, even when it is being considered by the home committee. In the Group of Social Democrats, as an extremely positive assessment of the fact that social partners have also been given a key role in the implementation of the law itself, one of the conditions for granting the subsidy is the agreement between employers and trade unions, and the law also provides for mutual control. However, the bill was not only coordinated with the social partners, but also took into account some of the opposition's proposals and comments, which we were not accustomed to in the previous term. Some of their proposals were included in the amendments adopted by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which considered the proposal to be a work force of the law. The Government also took seriously the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and took full account of their comments despite a short period of time. The amended bill is thus clearer and more precise, while it remains simple and operational, which is essential for its implementation. In addition, I should like to clarify that the parent body has also undertaken to examine the second paragraph of Article 2, as it has been expressed that it is in contradiction with Article 8 of the Labour Relations Act, but this is an issue that has been eliminated. For this reason, we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. We believe that the measure will contribute to preserving the jobs that businesses will still need when the crisis is over and the volume of production needs to be increased rapidly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the SDS Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a partial subsidy law, but we would like to draw attention to a few dilemmas. It was clear from the debate on the committee, which was in the introductory part, where we discussed the purpose and objectives of the law, very long, that the law was inconsistent with those most concerned - with employers and trade unions as representatives of workers - as indicated by the demonstrations or assembly before Parliament. At the meeting of the Committee, the Minister said that the law had been made quickly, and the result was that virtually all the articles had been amended after the Government had obviously given a little more thought to the matter. We have also made some proposals in our parliamentary group, but they have not been supported except in one case. The Government has drawn up a law to protect the worker and to help businesses maintain jobs, and economics wonder whether it has the sense to maintain unsuspecting jobs that are constantly at a loss or restructuring, which, of course, also makes it impossible for the labour market to be flexible and to create new, more promising jobs. They point out that it will only be possible to deal effectively with the crisis if the country makes a tax burden on the economy. The European countries are introducing tax reliefs, and our government is obviously afraid that, if they relieve the economy of certain tax obligations, there will be insufficient resources to divide between deleted and some other measures that have given them an important thesis in the coalition agreement and want to implement them at an inappropriate time. In the SDS Group, we believe that a systemic approach is needed, which means that proper measures are being taken and implemented when the time is right. A single measure will not work as well as a package of well-prepared and coordinated actions. We would therefore expect the Government to draw up measures and laws that will complement each other and give the results we want, that is to say keep jobs or improve them. Today, however, we are talking only about one measure that may currently guarantee social peace but is not development-oriented. We know that there are opportunities and that this is also the most effective way for individual companies in difficulty to approach each other individually. Such solutions are best because they face different problems in Mura because of reduced orders, such as those in Gorenje, Talum, or others. Although the bill before us is a solidarity but a variety of companies, with different production programmes, with a different number of employees, from the smallest, medium to the largest, saves one hoof for all the same. This could have positive effects for others, and we therefore wonder whether it makes sense and whether the funds we intend to give from the Treasury could be spent more effectively in another way. We believe that the general measure, which puts everything on the same denominator, is not the right way. In doing so, let us remind ourselves that there is already a possibility of redistribution of working time. We asked the Minister on the committee about this, and he did not give any answers, nor did he explain whether they had considered this possibility when preparing this law. One company may have 30% less orders right now, and at this time it's shorter working hours. In the next six months, however, the number may increase, and at that time it could benefit from the lack of hours that occurred in the preceding period. There is also a law on the resolution of firms in difficulty, which may result in more results with some change than a single financial amount, which is likely to come into the company with a delay in the excessive administration we are accustomed to. We would expect the measures to be complementary and not to introduce one option, leaving behind five or ten others who may be better and be more effective on their own, and even more so in the package of measures. In this respect, we have tabled a number of legislative proposals that we will discuss today. We expect the government to think carefully about how, at what speed and equipment, it will drive our boat through the turbulent times and how it will come out of the stormy and stormy sea with all the sailors and as little damage as possible to the ship. Let's not just think about the captain and the management team that are on the safe side of their bridge, but about everyone who's on board with them and making sure that it works and sails safely every day.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished public. Don't mind if I repeat some of the things that have already been heard about this speaker in the presentations on the positions of the Group. It is also clear to us that it is one of the measures the Government is facing in the face of the economic crisis that we are pleased to see in all things that, despite the rapid adoption, the participation of a number of parties involved and also of all the Members' groups has been ensured, and we are pleased that the text which is now before us has been unanimously adopted on the Committee. It seems important to us to emphasise that the main purpose of this law is to preserve jobs, secondaryly only to the possibility of social security for employees and secondaryly to increase the competitiveness of the economy. So we are aware that the expectations of all sides will not be 100% realized here. However, it seems important to us to say that when we define the law before us today, we will not be Members and Members before the enunciated dilemma, whether we are for the interests of workers, whether we are for the interests of capital, whether we are for the interests of the Economic Chamber, whether we are for the interests of trade unions, we believe that this is a law that will help the two parties involved with the assistance of the State, and God's, help to get the companies that will decide to do so out of the situation in which the economic crisis took place. It is true that we also had a certain dilemma in dealing with this law. The first is, let's say, what to do with -- let's say in quotes -- "free time"; in short, when we reduce the worker from 40 weeks to 36 or 32 hours, we have 4 or 8 hours to say that the country of some kind is an employee and we believe that it would make sense to spend those hours on additional education. We know that this is an intervention law, and we understand that the Ministry could not have predicted what could be done at that time. However, we hope that even as long as this law on cooperation with the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry of Technology, higher education, it will be possible to find ways to make this time useful, and that, as the previous said, this law will also constitute some developmental orientation; that Slovenian companies will emerge from this crisis with a more educated workforce than they have stepped forward, which is, of course, not to repeat themselves, in accordance with the Lisbon strategy and with what we are aiming for. The second dilemma before which we met is that the law makes it more difficult to help smaller businesses, especially in the case of a drastic reduction in the number of working hours. It is also true that we must admit that the law saves the back of the Slovenian economy, that the rest of the tissues, so to speak, and the muscles will have to wait for another law. However, I believe that the condition of the general Slovenian economies - that we keep it, in short. It seems particularly good to us that the law gives both employers and trade unions a special role and responsibility in solving the crisis. I hope that everyone involved in this process is aware of this, although some of today's events do not really affect my confidence. We believe, however, that in cases of good practice, where unions and employers will be able to find the right solutions, even with the help of this law, in short, that this dialogue, which will now be established in companies, in times of crisis, could be good for the future. In view of everything, we believe that this is a good law in a given situation that we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the value added tax, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Member Rudolf Petan. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has proposed to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee to Mr Rad Likar for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held on the basis of Articles 42, 128 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at its 6th urgent session. 1. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which has only a comment on the use of nomotechnics in the text of Article 1. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government, which sets out the reasons why the proposed solution does not support it and considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. An amendment was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to take account of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the context of the additional explanation of the opinion of the Government, the Minister of Finance stressed, inter alia, that the implementation of the proposed law would be virtually impossible to monitor VAT and certain taxpayers' accounts and to verify the eligibility of VAT reimbursement requirements. The proposed reduction in the VAT recovery deadline would also result in a significant liquidity loss of public financial revenues during the year and an increase in the budget deficit. Having regard to the opinion of the Government, the Committee, prior to its consideration of the individual articles of the law submitted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, first discussed the proposal for a decision that the law submitted was not suitable for further consideration. The points in the discussion of those members of the Committee, in whose view the proposed law should be adopted despite the negative opinion of the Government, are as follows. The liquidity of the state budget should be subject to liquidity concerns for companies and not vice versa. The aim of the bill is to improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy or facilitate business operations that need additional investment funds or new start-up as soon as possible. It is a political decision whether to liquidate the economy liquidity by means of the proposed measure, given that the possibility of liquidity redistribution of state budget resources is undoubtedly greater. In the opinion of most discussers, the fact that the tax administration still does not have an adequate information system is not a valid reason for rejecting the proposed reduced VAT refund deadline but constitutes a certain obstacle. It is possible to find a compromise and adjust the deadline to that; instead of a 7-day deadline, for example, it is possible to set a 15-, 20- or 30-day deadline. Some members of the coalition have also withdrawn this express support in order to cut the deadline. The points of the debaters who oppose the bill are as follows. The resolution of business liquidity is important, but it is necessary to be aware of the technical possibilities for implementing the solutions proposed. It is also important to consider the financial implications of the proposed law on the state budget and, therefore, to adopt it without simultaneous consideration of the budget balance is unacceptable. The bill has a positive effect on the part of the economy that receives the funds returned in the short term and on the negative for the budget, as some expenditure cannot be financed in the event of lower revenue flows. A more appropriate and, in particular, a more comprehensive solution should be sought to achieve the same objective, i.e. to ensure greater liquidity of the economy. The problem of the information system also requires in-depth discussion. With regard to the views expressed, opinions and opinions expressed by individual discussers, the Minister of Finance stressed the following. The decision on the proposed law is a strategic decision of the National Assembly. The proposed 7-day deadline for reimbursement of VAT surplus until the establishment of a new tax administration information system is not realistic. However, account must also be taken of the financial implications which, in the event of a 30-day repayment period, would result in a fall in VAT revenue of between €150 million and € 160 million. The current fiscal situation of such a liquidity deficit does not allow public financial revenues, as the government's already adopted measures make the budget deficit already at the limit of the Maastricht criterion. The proposed measure should therefore, in the opinion of the Minister, be considered as part of the other measures that the Government will propose after the budget rebalancing. After discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision with 8 votes in favour and 7 against: Proposal for a Law amending the Added Value Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to the representative of the bill-maker, Mag. Andre Visiak, for the opening presentation, but I don't see him in the hall. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether it wishes to make a position on the proposal of the parent working body? Please, mag. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! In fact, the report that we have just heard has already made quite a few arguments which have prevented the Government from supporting the bill that some Members have tabled. Allow me to perhaps briefly support again the reasons which led us to reject the bill in the Government. We do not deny the need to take measures to improve the liquidity situation of the economy, but we also need to look at other segments of the country's operation in these measures. And inevitably, one of the segments is fiscal. In the proposals for measures already under consideration and also adopted by the National Assembly, we have proposed a range of measures that will lead to improvements in the liquidity of the economy. If you adopt the proposal you are proposing, this would only mean an increase in the 2009 budget deficit from the current 2.4% - without any additional commitments that may prove necessary in the rebalancing - to 3.2% of GDP. If we add about 1% of the deficit of other units in the state sector that are relevant for the assessment of the Maastricht fiscal criteria, then we would come up with a deficit that would severely exceed 4%. I think that, despite the situation which is neither favourable to the economy nor to the financial system, it would be very difficult to defend such a large deficit. I therefore reiterate that the proposal, which this year is in such an extent and in such a form, is absolutely not acceptable. However, the government does not reject the possibility that we may find an intermediate solution when we propose a rebalancing in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Representatives of the Ministry! In the Slovenian National Party, we are in the current state of affairs, as is predicted by the recession and the upcoming expected crisis, we are in favour of change. And we are in favour of changes mainly in tax policy, capital and labour; that is, in the field of tax policy in all directions. Even though the content that we discussed on the working body yesterday has proved to be an attempt to start something moving in the tax area, the first point on our part is that we are working too partially; the second, that we are working too slowly and too slowly; the third, which is purely objective, is that we are wondering why - given that the proposed amendments to the SD law - have not done so before. Nevertheless, it is right that they have made this change, and in the Slovenian National Party we will and we will, yesterday and today, we will support this bill or, if you like, we will oppose the position that will be given. Why? Because they already prove to other countries, if you want the Netherlands, Ireland, that this can be done to reduce the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT from 60 days to less. This is happening in the Netherlands and Ireland within ten to seven days, in Estonia even within five days and in the Great Britain it is 30 days. It is interesting that we, too, consider that a period of 30 days and not 60 days applies to the debtors who, due to the export of goods or supplies within the European Community, is due. And what's interesting is that there was also a proposal on the working body to do something about it and at least reduce it - not to 7, but to 30 days - that this deadline was also rejected. In the Slovenian National Party, and personally, I do not agree with the excuses that this is some constant rhythm that we are used to, that it must be such that it is not possible to control, if we reduce these 60 days, that we do not have an information system that would be able to introduce a change - of course we do - because this change, if introduced, would follow those that apply to exporters for 30 days. Well, the decision was not affected by my claim, which I'm going to repeat today. If we were told that they would pay us our work for January 5th, not February 5th, when we have wages, but April 5th, and ask us whether we would rather have this happen on March 5th or February 10th, I am sure that everyone would say 10th February - as soon as possible. If we, as consumers or someone else, have to pay the value added tax immediately, I do not know why the overpaid tax would not be charged immediately. I understand that there are always two sides; I understand that the state and the budget and I understand that there are consequences, but these consequences will be seen from the spiral. If we do not help in this way in tax policy and quickly in the face of the coming recession, then nothing will help if the budget is not set aside this year, because we will not be at the expense of a certain amount of money, because next year it will be very entangled at the expense of social transfers and much more. As it is said, the value added tax law we support in any form to reduce this deadline, and we are convinced that this would be the first but important step of rapid assistance in the fight against recession.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members. For at least two months a day, we have been reading about the financial crisis, the banking system crisis, the real sector crisis, workers' forgiveness and black-eyed forecasts. In parallel, we are also reading the government's forecasts of how it will take comprehensive measures to address this situation and solve the difficult situation from day to day. Yesterday, the champions of the government's parties announced, again, 22 measures to reduce the cost of the country and decommission the economy. What have we done for the Slovenian real economy so far, I wonder? They're fighting a little. No government action is in effect at this time. The President of the Government mocks Slovenian citizens and citizens, and also from the institution of the Prime Minister of the Government with austerity measures, called 'dinner and coffee'. The President of the country, however, has no problem for one trip abroad, is spending as much money as the President of the Government will not save with his representation throughout the term of office. We're not gonna do anything about that kind of saving. Unfortunately, so far, we have not heard of any concrete austerity measure that would save some millions of euros, not a few ten euros. Regrettably, we also read about the Minister of Justice's promises to raise the salaries of judges to the level of parliamentary salaries and also about the demands of other unions in the public sector to raise wages - as if we were not all on the same ship! In a difficult situation such as the Slovenian economy, however, the greatest absurdity is the next argument by the Government, with which the government coalition rejects the bill now before us. I quote: "The reduction in the repayment deadline will therefore also have an impact on the liquidity shortfall in public financial revenues during the year and on the increase in the budget deficit for the year in the amount of the two-month VAT refund, which is based on the average monthly amount of returns in 2008 of 338 million euros and 3.8 GDP." At a time when the State should assist the economy and businesses with measures to address the liquidity problems of their operations, these same companies must resolve the liquidity situation of obviously public finances. So the government doesn't want it or doesn't want it faster, or if you want it back as quickly as you can, which is owned by companies and not your own country. This is confused with all logic and all reason. On the one hand, we are talking vehemently about helping businesses, and on the other hand, we do not want to give them their money back as quickly as possible. The Slovenian People's Party's Group concludes with a proposal that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration, does not agree and will vote against such a proposal for a decision. If the problem is too short a time limit for paying back too much VAT, we propose that we work together to correct the law in some feasible framework and thus find some compromise. We hope and expect you to follow our proposal also in the coalition's parties, especially in the light of the government's promise to listen to the opposition's good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Good day to all of you. Of course, what to say about this bill, which must have wanted to be liked first. In such stories, I remembered the conclusion of one of the friendly jokes that says, "What does a child know about 500 kilos?" What was I going to say? That the deadline of 7 days for the situation we have in Slovenia is certainly too short. It can't be realized. However, the goal and the purpose of the money is to return to those who have paid too much in advance, certainly to those who need to support it, to commend it and to pay all attention to it, and I am also pleased that the Ministry of Finance has promised that this option will also be considered in the proposal for a rebalancing. Today I called one of the Slovenian tax offices and talked to the people doing this every day about what it would look like in reality and what the deadline was. I must say that it has been a majority opinion that matters could be reviewed in fact within 30 days and such a proposal would be welcomed by the Ministry of our Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Of course, something that isn't real at that time to prescribe marriage, but of course it's unwise. Or another case. See, as if when the flu is full, the waiting room would be prescribed to the doctor instead of 20 minutes or half an hour for a period of 3-4 minutes to check the patient. The consequences would certainly be for a lot of people. And in the LDS Group, we see two problems. One is, of course, immediate and current incompetence, and on the other hand, that the importance, I think, is not fateful, and I attach to the debater before me that such an outage for the state budget is not and cannot be doomed, but can certainly present to him, in a certain part and at certain moments, a problem that needs to be anticipated in advance, that we can avoid it. I therefore stress once again that we support the government's study of options and expect a concrete solution. Until then and for the reasons mentioned and mentioned above, we do not support the proposal in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and we will support the decision of the parent working body that this moment the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u32	Hello, Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance! The Group of Social Democrats has the following position. The reduction of payment deadlines makes sense, but not at the expense of reducing tax control, as this would result in less detection of tax wheel fraud. The proposed measure would also result in a significant loss of resources for the state budget, which means that the government would run out of resources to provide some important measures to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. For this reason, we agree that the proposed law is being rejected today, but the government should examine the reduction of payment deadlines in a way that will not result in a reduction in tax control and will not result in a greater loss of resources for the state budget. The shortening of the repayment deadline from 60 days or from 30 days to 7 days would also, at a given time, result in a significant liquidity outflow of public financial revenues. Let me also repeat what has been said before. The 30-day payment period now applies to export-oriented companies. However, the problem is that there would be a liquidity shortfall in public financial revenues, in particular in the month when this change would take place, as it would be necessary to provide VAT reimbursement funds for a month earlier. As a result of the proposed changes, the 2008 figures would reduce VAT revenue by around €150 to € 160 million, which means that the proposed measure should cut funds somewhere. I do not know whether colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group have considered where the funds will be taken today when the proposal is submitted. Probably not, since a reduction of deadlines to 7 days would also reduce VAT revenues. In doing so, let us recall that the Government, with amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, has ensured an ongoing reduction in the burden of legal persons by determining the amount of the tax on the income of legal persons for 2009 to take into account the tax rate that will apply in 2009 and not the rate of the tax from the previous year, which is the regulation in force. In this way, the amount of tax advances paid will be closer to the amount of tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of tax accounts. The proposed measure will relieve the economy of liquidity. On the basis of corporate tax calculations, the economy will be burdened with liquidity by around €50 million per year. Because it is necessary to use money and funds rationally to target measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis and because the law would make control of taxpayers worse, the Social Democrats Group will support the decision of the home labour force, namely the Committee on Finance, that the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act are not suitable for further consideration today. However, we absolutely support the adoption of such a solution to the liquidity burden of the economy immediately after the adoption of the national budget balance, as also discussed by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u34	Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have proposed a law in the parliamentary procedure that would significantly shorten the period of reimbursement of overpaid value-added tax to those economic operators who have paid more than they should have. Therefore, the State was paid more value added tax than it had proved necessary after the accounting period. So far, this deadline has been 60 days. Thus, 60 days ago, the state had been operating an overpaid company tax and had not returned the tax to them, and now it says that if this deadline had been reduced to 7 days, this would have been fiscally unsustainable. So, it's a paradox, it's amazing that you're saying if you have to give back something that others gave you to make your finances suffer for it. Such a country is sick, I'm sorry. Such a country that lacks the money it has borrowed from the economy before, such a country, forgive me, is not healthy. And I'm not surprised they're telling me that this has unsustainable public finances if you bring back something that's not yours. If you pay back the tax that the economic operator has overpaid, this is financially unsustainable. This has no effect on public finances if you return something sooner than some of the harsh standards have been written down so far. And it is true that at this unfortunate Ministry of Finance, they have always looked at it through one financial year and said: yes, in one year we will have some financial consequences because we will have to return something sooner. However, respectable, once have this width and this responsibility to the Slovenian economy, that this money economy is more used than it may have needed six months ago, one year, two years, five years ago. Today, the economic crisis is also in Slovenia, not just in Europe and the world. Today the economy still needs this money, and please go over one standard bureaucratic mental patterns, that the liquidity of the country is before the liquidity of businesses, and not the liquidity of spending, I don't know, on those you've decided to spend. I cannot therefore understand that, through public financial consequences, you are interpreting the unacceptableness of this proposal. Another time. I cannot believe that the situation is different in Estonia, where the period of repayment of the overpaid VAT is 5 days. So that they could train red tape there and set up information systems so that they could process all the necessary and return the tax within five days. We like to imitate the developed countries. Dutch, Irish. There's a deadline of 7 to 10 days. Why can't Slovenia be comparable to these countries once, and what are you really afraid of? Control is always after that. No one who is charged and reimburses an overpaid value tax shall receive a visit from the tax inspector and supervision before return, unless there is indeed some serious suspicion that something is wrong. It is usually later and I cannot understand that this would be an argument that there will be more abuses, that this law is unacceptable. We therefore propose that this law strengthen the liquidity capacity of businesses to help businesses to oppose their return to what is theirs before the moment is enshrined in the law in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act represents one of the reasonable and necessary measures, not only in the circumstances of the financial crisis, but the 60-day deadline for the reimbursement of value added tax funds is generally unacceptable. Therefore, it would have to be shortened a long time ago. Therefore, the proposed measure at first sight is certainly logical and meaningful. However, at least three conditions must be provided for its implementation, namely the accelerated control of the value added tax, the appropriate information system in the tax administration and the bridging of the deficit in the 2009 budget inflows. In fact, it is incorrect to state that the bill does not have any financial implications. In 2009, the budget inflows would amount to more than EUR 300 million in the context of the legislative proposal. In the event of a reduced 60-day deadline of half, that is 30 days, which would be possible with the use of an existing information system, and a good 150 million euros. Without the provision of a new information system and without overcoming the loss of budget flows at this time, it is not possible to support a meaningful and necessary proposal for legislative changes, so we will really support the position of the home labour force in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that this bill came into adoption at a time that we all know is inconvenient, with various aspects. One of the disadvantages we feel the most is certainly the problem of the illiquidity of the economy. The second is the poor financial condition of public funds and budgets, because until we have a budget ahead of us, we will not even know exactly, at least Members and Members of Parliament, identify what it is. And third is the indisputable conclusion that this moment is preparing a rebalancing and that, in the context of the preparation and adoption of the rebalancing, there will still be a range of ambitions that we have, to realize or possibly even to prolong if the necessary financial resources are cut short. This bill or amendment of the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT is, of course, nothing new. We have known him for a long time because this has been pointed out by the economy, including in its documents sent to both the Government and the National Assembly. And what, let's say, has been taken from these warnings by the opposition that proposed the law is just a little radicalised. So, from 10 days it went to a request that the period of return should be reduced from 60 days to 7 days. We are assessing - and thus we have also assessed on the working body, including the representatives of DeSUS - that this proposal is a little too radical, that it is excessive at this point and that it is not possible to support the one proposed. It is true, however, that we have supported the intent of this law all the time, and it is meaningful, not only to be supported, but also to be implemented at the time before us, and thus to help the economy. If they could not agree immediately with the proposal contained in the law and if we support the intention of this law at the same time, then it is clear that we have been embarrassed in our decision-making. We tried to help ourselves out of this embarrassment by proposing an amendment that would move the repayment deadline for 30 days. At least in the first discussion, most Members and Members of the home labour body also supported it, and the ministry assessed that, despite the sustainability of the budget, it was too much. We have always rejected, i.e. in the Desus Group, the argument that reservations are those which should be taken into account, of a technical nature. In short, that the information system was not adequately prepared and we wanted to find this compromise to stop at 30 days, perhaps at another number. This agreement has not been reached and we have been prepared, personally, to support the proposal proposed by the Government and adopted by its mother's working body, only if the Minister makes a public commitment to take our amendment into account in the rebalancing. So not only will he try this, as stated in the opening presentation by the Secretary of State, but he has made a public commitment to take this proposal into account in the budget, in the budget balance. This is what we also expect, and this can also be done in such a way that, perhaps in the cash implementation of some investment programmes, the projects have reached delays that the country may be able to transfer more easily than the illiquidity of our Slovenian economy. So this is the reason for the Minister's commitment that we were prepared to support the proposal adopted later by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of the proposal as adopted on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided within half an hour following the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Law on Income Tax, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a mag. Andrej Vizjak. I give my word to the proposaler of the Magi Act. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u40	Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In fact, I introduced this law after the Government had negatively defined itself to the same law adopted by the previous government and sent it into parliamentary procedure. During the period of ongoing business, the former government, according to the elections and before or before the election of the new government, wanted to respond effectively and also quickly to the threatening financial and economic crisis in Parliament and to an appropriate extent. Back then, it was a slightly different time than it was today. At the time, many companies felt a little less crisis than they did today. Since then, it has been about a month or two and the consequences of the failure of the Government and Parliament have been known more than it should have been. And that is why I wanted, better later than never, to try again to convince Members and Members that the proposal for additional burdens, a little developmental perspective on helping the economy is what part or developmentally oriented part of the economy in Slovenia is using and expecting. It expects that the country is opposed to investment, development and research to relieve it, to present Slovenia as a more tax-attractive country through a reduced general tax rate. To encourage investment, including through tax reliefs, both for those domestic companies with post-investment ambitions and possibly for others in the immediate environment where the tax environment may be less friendly. That is why we have proposed three fundamental measures. First: raising tax incentives for research and development. From 20% to 40% and 40% to 60% where the development needs of the economy are slightly greater in those more remote parts of Slovenia. By the way, I am sure that if I acted even more openly and more developmentally, it would probably make sense, Mr President-respected, to propose 100% tax relief for research and development. Another time. We have proposed the introduction of 30% tax relief for investments in equipment and intangible fixed assets. By doing so, those companies that have development programmes that are now deciding or in these uncertain times going to invest or continue to invest would have stepped in the way of those companies. Go to the country's investment, and part of this investment will recognise you as a tax relief and you will not pay tax on it. The third proposal was that we reduce the general tax rate by two percentage points, that there will be a general tax rate of 18 and not 20% in Slovenia, and that each year we will approach it with one percentage point. All these measures are, in my opinion, a different view of what the Slovenian economy needs, from the way the Slovenian government sees it. Indeed, we wanted with a package of effective strong measures at the beginning when the crisis knocked on the door, to tell the economy: go on, be brave, the country is with you and will help you. No, the government said: we're brave, we don't have money, we'll wait, and with a glass of water, we'll put out a fire, there's a roof and stuff. And if such an approach is taken by the government even in the future, respected, you will be extinguished by the burning and we do not want that in the opposition. We are therefore proposing and proposing new and new measures to mitigate and help and relieve the economy. Moreover, yesterday the Committee on Finance has literally misplaced this proposal, so today we have tabled amendments that put the proposal on an effective basis, as originally proposed and designed through the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u41	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of the Committee to Mr Miroslav Klun for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 6th urgent session, on 13. 1. 2009 discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons submitted by the Member of the National Assembly of Magi for consideration following a reduced procedure. Andrej Vizjak. The hearing following a reduced procedure shall be held at its meeting on 8. 1. 2009 confirmed by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. The committee was co-chaired: the drafter of the Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak, the proposed minister responsible for finance, representatives of the Government and the Finance Ministry, representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In addition to the legislative proposal, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service of 9 March 2005 on the draft law on the European Union. 1. 2009, hereinafter referred to as the ZPS, and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, hereinafter referred to as the Government, of 12. 1. 2009 by amendments to paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 or article of the legislative proposal. This is an amendment to Article 1, Article 3, Article 4, as amended by Article 2 of the proposed text. At the beginning of the hearing of the Committee, the amendments were also tabled by the SDS Group on the basis of the opinion of the SDS on Article 2 for a new Article 4a and Article 5 of the legislative proposal. In addition to the review of the amendments tabled, the Committee received a proposal for an amendment to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the ZPS, namely a new Article 4a of the transitional provision and Article 5 of the legislative proposal. At the meeting itself, a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 2 was submitted to the Committee by SD Member Miroslav Klun, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, and in the corresponding amended wording as a proposal for a new Article 4b and Article 4c, as well as amendments which are reflected in the follow-up to this report. In its presentation of the opinion of that service, the representative stressed that the comments of a nomotechnical nature and in the amendment proposals were sufficiently taken into account. With regard to the proposal for an amendment by SD Member Miroslav Klun to Article 2 of the legislative proposal, the Commission proposed a more appropriate placement between the transitional provisions, which was properly implemented at the time of further consideration. Proposal for new paragraphs 4.b and 4.c. In line with the reasons for the opinion, the Government proposes deleting Articles 1, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal on the grounds that the measures provided for in the novels in question are not expected to have significant positive effects or individual effects, the measure envisaged goes beyond the public financial capacity. However, by means of government amendments, Article 2 of the amendment, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, takes over the basic arrangement by additionally setting out the maximum amount of the aid in force under the public financial capacity. This aims to ensure that all debtors can implement such relief and that greater impact is expected in micro and small enterprises. Thus, the provision of the first paragraph provides that the taxable person may apply a reduction in the tax base of 30% of the invested amount to equipment and intangible assets, with the maximum absolute amount being set at EUR 30,000. The reduction of the tax base is possible during the tax period of investment, up to EUR 30,000, but mostly in the amount of the tax base. In the second paragraph, it is either editorial correction or harmonisation with terminology under the Accounting Rules. Furthermore, the deletion of the condition in relation to employment in the application of the investment relief provided for in paragraph 3 of that Regulation means that the debtor will be able to apply that relief even if he does not have any employees. The fourth paragraph of the procedure introduces alignment with the first paragraph concerning the amount of the unused part of the relief that can be carried forward over the following periods, i.e. this amount being EUR 30,000. The corrections to paragraphs 5 and 6 shall eliminate the editorial inconsistencies of Article 55 of the Law. The application of the present seventh paragraph, which has become the sixth paragraph of Article 55, is determined "even if the tenant loses the right to use the equipment" and the corresponding renumbering has been made in the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 6. At the same time, in order to delete paragraph 5(a) of Article 55, paragraph 8 provides for the renumbering of the preceding paragraph. Among the amendments of qualified candidates, the Committee adopted amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal and the amendment to Article 5 of the proposed SDS Group. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] As a result of the amendments adopted, they became irrelevant amendments to the SDS Group by 2 and to the new Article 4a of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The law that has been introduced is, in fact, quite identical to what we have already dealt with and which the Government once rejected. At the previous reading, we said that we would re-examine the possibility of certain solutions in the law in question, which relate in particular to tax incentives for investments. This is what the Government has now done, and therefore supports the proposal for an amended law, which was passed yesterday by its mother's working body. However, it cannot support the full solutions to the proposed basic law, for two reasons in particular. The first reason is undoubtedly that measures of an indirect nature are poorly targeted and that their effects will only be present in the economy for a long time. We are not saying that this is not good, but at this point, it is simply not possible for the State to afford such measures, because the impact of the proposed law is a significant outage of the public finances that we urgently need for the legal obligations that the National Assembly has accepted last year as additional obligations and they need to be financed. We'll talk about it at the balance sheet. Therefore, the Government supports the proposal of the complementary proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let us first look at the government's already adopted measures to mitigate the economic crisis. First, at the proposal of the previous government, we have amended the Banking Act and the Public Finance Act. The first change was intended for natural persons in terms of calming the panic against the unnecessary fear of the population that their savings were at risk on the bank. The second novelty was intended primarily for credit institutions, including insurance, reinsurance and pension companies, which are intended to provide them with the financial resources they would use to promote economic activity and to provide the appropriate credit support, the economy and the population needed to provide the resources for operations. According to our information, this measure is disabled, as not a single case of the beneficiaries' use of this option is yet to take place. If this information is wrong, I apologize. Clearly, this measure proves to be inappropriate. The second measure aimed at the economy was the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, which, according to our assessment, is only of a beautiful nature, since it in no way burdens the economy as such, but regulates only the liquidity flow of the relationship of the company-state. On the other hand, this liquidity measure only applies to companies that show profits. The question arises whether in Slovenia we have only well-standing companies with shown profits. The third measure aimed at mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis is the Proposal for a Law on partial full-time subsidisation of which we are adopting today. The truth is that this is the first measure of the Government that could have a concrete effect on the Slovenian economy, and this is, according to our assessment, intended in the first place for the workers, but not for the companies themselves, which could save the same amount or even more by implementing the measures already available to them under labour law, and thus we do not mean forgiveness. According to our assessment, again a half-disabled or ineffective measure. The first serious law that would represent a real economic burden is, according to our assessment, the one we are dealing with right now. But look at the fraction, a good proposal by the Government in fear of the responsibility that we should have long ago accepted, it is transforming into a law that will have no practical consequences for the vast majority of the Slovenian economy, which is already in an unenviable situation. Once again, we will adopt a law that will be much written about, and most Slovenian companies will not be useful because the 30 000 euro relief limit is simply ridiculously low for a common craftsman, let alone for a serious small, medium or large business. So, what will we do with the adoption of this disability law? Nothing! The situation for Slovenian companies and the economy, despite all the laws adopted and also the expected adoption of today's two, will not change for the better for much. But, Mr. President, the government will pay for juice and lunch alone today. The Group of Members will support all the proposed amendments and, ultimately, also the proposal for a law, however it will eventually be. If not otherwise, it will help those micro-family companies in which individuals and their family members save their position as self-employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u48	Dear Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Proposed Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, prepared by the Member of Magi. Andrej Vizjak, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support, as it brings new reliefs to relieve the economy, which is good at the moment, and the proposed law supports to some extent the Government, which is most responsible for running the country and for measures that will strengthen our economy. However, the Government has the right and duty to choose those measures which are publicly sustainable and which, in view of the current situation of the financial sector, are possible. That is why we have also supported the proposed amendments of the Government on the home working body, including the one that makes it possible to facilitate motor vehicles and buses as well. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will fully support the law, as it is a journey for decommissioning the economy and for new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u50	Respected and respected! Even when this law is being considered, one fundamental question is before all of us: Do we have the consensus to defend, at all costs, decisions that could endanger the current public financial position when we are already at the limit of 3% of the public financial deficit? And, as a result, do we therefore agree that meeting the Maastricht criteria is the key to a favourable rating for the country's credit situation in Europe and the world that allows us to successfully intervene in the fight against the economic and financial crisis. We are convinced that this should be one of the common starting points for considering the best possible measures to overcome the crisis. We are also convinced that this is also the view of the opposition, so we expect it not to "force" decisions and solutions that it itself has not been prepared to enforce six months ago and that it knows well enough that it does not contribute to the smart potential of the community as a whole with such solutions. Nevertheless, we understand the opposition's initiative, which obviously wants to contribute actively to the dynamics of this development dialogue. We therefore see its proposals as welcome, but we want to frame them by reaching a smart agreement in a way that will deliver the best results to reduce the burden of the economy, which will also have an appropriate development arsenal for further economic growth. The proposal for a law put before the National Assembly by the opposition put before us a dangerous dilemma. It creates an inviting opportunity to please entrepreneurs, and unfortunately, on the other hand, this dilemma is a clear and threatening danger that by adopting these solutions we increase the deficits over a magic limit of 3% and thereby significantly undermine the potential of the state and business to remain competitive in the international credit market, which will be crucial to our overall success. Social Democrats welcome the solutions adopted by the Committee on Finance and we see them as an attempt to reach a high-quality compromise with the opposition in the National Assembly. We are therefore surprised by the opposition's insistence on solutions that would endanger the public financial situation and not ensure the desired effects. We support the correction of the investment relief so that the tax base can be reduced by 30% of the invested amount in equipment, but not more than 30,000 euros and most of the tax base. We estimate that this would align the conditions and situation of the entire small economy with the situation that we have made with the adoption of the Income Act. At the same time, and particularly important and in line with the commitments of the Coalition Treaty, we are imposing increased investment relief, but within the framework of public funding options. As we understand the need to increase the liquidity of the economy and as this needs to be ensured as soon as possible, we also welcome the impact of the investment relief for 2008. Reducing investment incentives is appropriate for larger companies to promote economic growth in growth conditions and when companies generate profits. However, without effects at the time of the recession, because investment relief does not create an effect because there is no profit and because there is no profit, relief does not constitute stimulation for the desired investment. Let me remind you that the Social Democrats also objected to the abolition of the investment relief in the context of tax reform. As the tax reform by abolishing it has increased the effective burden of the economy, and since companies have passed higher taxation on to end-users, this suspension of the investment relief has also generated inflation. However, we guarantee that we will be the first to advocate the introduction of an investment relief for other companies, but in different situations, when it is possible to re-energise economic growth through conventional measures. Today, subsidies for investment in technological equipment already foreseen by the Government in the package of measures are more appropriate for this purpose. The proposal to reduce the general tax rate is seen as the most risky and, if we can agree in the starting points, also as a dangerous experiment. This action would result in an annual decline in budget revenues of hundreds of millions of euros, thus reducing our common chances of achieving a better macroeconomic impact with better measures. In an illustrative way, however, a reduction in the tax rate would mean a lot to someone who would make a profit, for example, by selling Mercator and the state would also help him to gain more by reducing tax rates. Let us once again stress that we are at the limit of 3% of the public financial deficit and accountability to people and that the economy requires us to refrain from all solutions that do not provide optimal impact and new economic growth in increasing public spending and to focus on better targeted and effective measures. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] responsibility. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u52	Your Honor! Six months ago, we listened to the evidence from the previous government that, with excessive spending, with excessive economic growth, the economy overheated, that something needed to be done, "restraint" that economic growth is something bad, generate inflation and do something about it. Today, however, we are listening to why we did not introduce investment tax reliefs that would encourage investment six months ago. But we did. Six months ago, we introduced tax reliefs, reintroduced tax reliefs for investments in equipment through both the Income Act and companies through this Law on corporate income tax, but in a limited sense. When we wanted to go against micro-enterprises in particular. So, please stop with what I would say, the duality that, in the period you now say, tax reliefs should be introduced, you have read to the government that measures should promote growth, inflation, spending and overheating the economy. These are the statements I'm going to put in here next time so you can watch them when you're wasting your readings like this. However, the government has been very hasty with some measures that create financial space for such a amendment to the law. But it's only the Slovenian government; with the raise of excise duties. Ladies and gentlemen, excise duty on propulsion fuels. We are no longer following the trends of our neighbouring countries where motor fuels are falling, but in Slovenia the movement of propulsion fuels has somehow been levelled. By raising excise duties on all drivers' fuel fuels, the government, for example, makes an average of 25,000 kilometres per year, which is 2,000 litres of fuel, burdened 200 euros per year. She took 200 euros out of his pocket and will therefore have less than 200 euros to buy other goods, including those of the drivers working in Mura, Pek and the like. These are measures that the Government has taken quickly, immediately and effectively, taken and will provide financial inflows to the budget at least to the extent that the financial consequences of this law would help the economy. They would help to invest in equipment to develop their competitiveness, open jobs and pay wages to people. Instead, you propose measures that are, to say the least, funny for employers and trade unions. For example, the previously so-sung Full-time Subsidisation Act will contribute to a company that has a thousand employees and has had and has a 30% dropout - a few such companies in Slovenia, exporters, in the car industry - in the full amount of money, as much as possible, 360,000 euros. To such an enterprise, forgive me, EUR 360,000 certainly does not mean survival. That is why these measures are ridiculous in view of the crisis which is, and are, in fact, really an aspirin for a severe, severe disease that is obvious in the world, Europe and us. So when I also listened to the reasons why the Government opposes, she said the measures were poorly targeted and only in the long run. But the government supported the measures and the s.p.'s through income, but that was fine, and they were well targeted. This is said to be part of the economic operators engaged in the same activity and having only a different formal legal basis, for which these measures are properly targeted and for which companies are poorly targeted. Once again, the financial consequences of this law are based on the good tax years 2006, 2007. These good tax years aren't going to be that much. The financial consequences of this law, if adopted to the full, would be quite different, such as those cited by the Government and not prepared for one, at least in part, compromise to go with at least some tax reliefs. Cosmeticly, it has repaired the existing regime and, of course, with the amendments, we will try to fix this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons constitute the twin act already adopted by amendments to the Income Act. It would, of course, be logical and reasonable for the proposed proposal to be considered by the National Assembly in parallel with the said Income Act in December. The proposal for amendments to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons seeks to introduce similar reliefs as were introduced by amendments to the Income Law also for companies paying taxes under the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and thus placed in a different tax environment, as well as for independent entrepreneurs taxed under the Income Act. While the basic purpose of the proposed amendment is basically good and can represent one of the measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. However, the proposed changes also have significant fiscal short-term negative effects, as this year's budget, based on the proposed changes, would be reduced by about 1% of the gross domestic product of inflows, which of course requires an appropriate adjustment of the budget or its rebalancing. For this reason, in addition to supporting the basic purpose of the proposed amendments, we also support the additions of the Government and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted at the meeting of the Committee and included in the amended proposal for a law that incorporates the proposed amendments to the law at this time into an acceptable public financial framework, with a focus on providing assistance to micro and small enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. The more debates are organized, the more they seem to repeat themselves, the more I feel like we are living in a world of eternal return. Some things are understandable, but they are probably not, or if they are already understandable, they cannot be supported. First of all, this Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is relatively often changed, and in this frequency of change we have been going around lately even the same laws, one after the other, the same amendments one after the other. We don't change a thing. To which, of course, the applicants have every right. They seem to be convinced that these are real moves and try to enforce them. Some others, however, feel that this is not the only thing that could be confirmed in the National Assembly. What's more disturbing is the constant repetition of how the battle this government has done nothing so far, if it has done anything, makes every mistake. And that sounds pretty unconvincing to me, especially when we're sitting at the table, looking at the numbers, adding them up, and finding that it's hundreds of millions of euros. And if that's nothing to anyone, then he's probably thinking in different categories from us ordinary citizens and Members and Members. It also bothers me that those who don't have any fresh ideas keep talking about paying for coffee. And it seems now that paying for coffee, which I don't particularly support, has become an alibi for not having any ideas. I'd like you to think about some other offer that we're going to think about, and not distract our thoughts from minor matters. Those who continue to, you know, have been talking about excise duties for quite some time now, and I am so far away from Ljubljana, that I probably belong to that category that was taken 200 euros a month out of their pocket, forget to say that last year I was "shanked" 1,000 euros in this way. I voted against the fact that this National Assembly, when it adopted the law and the prices of these vignettes, gave me this credit that I didn't want. Perhaps someone is affected now that there are only 800 of those 1,000 euros left, but I would say that there should be much less. Otherwise, this law is one of those that is part of a wide range of proposed measures, those that have already been proposed and those that are still ready to propose. And it's not possible to understand these individual laws, so I think, if we don't understand them in connotation with others. Each of the proposals presented individually has its faults. As long as we think about it that way, we will always have enough reasons to plan individual measures. However, it will be a little more difficult if we link this into a bouquet and we find that all these measures that have been proposed, which some have already been adopted, and some that have been prepared, employers' organisations or owners' organisations, and so on, cumulatively mean such sum that this government does not actually have anything left to realign according to some projects, ideas and so on. It would remain only an opportunity to fulfil the legal obligations and thus be the whole mandate of the Government, which would only carry out ongoing transactions. That's probably not gonna happen. I think that both the government and the coalition will also want to create something, to create in a way that they will try to implement their ideas. They say there's nothing left of this marriage. It's something small. Something's changed. More for a joke to remind you that something like this happened about four years ago. Then there were others who did so when only the address remained. But now there's more to it than the address. The remaining relief, the condition of the employment has withdrawn, Article 4 has been supplemented. I think that many among entrepreneurs, between micro and small enterprises, will also be able to make use of this for their business results. With such thoughts in the DeSUS Group, we support the amended amended law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the only work in the comprehensive tax area is that, quickly and effectively, which can make it easier for us at this point in time to see the recession and the economic crisis approaching. I think most people know the American magazine Forbes, which has calculated and made a series of countries that have the highest taxes. Finally, Slovenia takes first place. We're the winners. We are even ahead of Denmark, Sweden and Finland. Is that not reason enough for us to start working in the field of tax reduction? The purpose of the law we are talking about, the corporate income tax, is clear: to raise tax reliefs for development. I think we all agree that this is necessary. 30% of tax incentives for investment in equipment. I think that's what we all want. And a reduction of the general tax rate by 2 percentage points. Or very specific: for 2008 instead of 22 20, for 2009 instead of 21 19 and for 2010 instead of 20 18. Fair intentions that have been proposed in this law. And, of course, the smart ones. Sorry, just partial. But I believe, as we have heard from one of the previous speakers, that such a reduction by 2% is not interesting to many because there is no profit. I understand that a lot of rich people, the owner of a company, are getting laid by 2%. Why? Because he's never got a "win" in a rumor anyway. Because all the profits along with the other co-monetary show up as a new investment, the real value of which is only 50%, not 100%, as he showed. And for the other 50%, they're both going to Maldives and Seychelles. Of course they don't care about 2%. Some of you get a 2% "fuck" too. Indeed, the estimated value between 2008 and 2010, the financial impact, the reduction in the tax rate, would be EUR 314 million. That's right. And that's a really hard question for the state budget. But I'm happy to say today that there's a lot more here, my fellow mayor, and I'd be happy if he told me to accept the budget and go through it smoothly. Never! We don't have to do any of the rebalancing and we have to take some money to give it to other people. Where it's needed. And this law today says that this money is needed elsewhere, not in the Treasury. And when we know that we are missing 314 million, at least we need to see if these 314 million euros can be moved anywhere in the budget. That's all it takes. There's no will! And the absurdity of all absurdities in eight years of experience is that someone proposes a law, to this law, which has five articles, we adopt or receive at the table of eight amendments that are adopted by most, and these amendments completely amend the law. The goulash is made up of macaroni and meat! This is the greatest absurdity that's ever happened! And today we are expected to agree with the government's amendments, which will modify the substance of the five articles of the proposed law as a whole. But this applies to all governments, not just that, but the previous and the previous. If anything goes wrong, it will be Mr Visjak's fault for proposing such a law, although it has been completely amended. But if he succeeds, of course, all those who have given these amendments will be deserving, even though Visjak will be signed, and also, Mr Visjak, allow you, I resent you, because you went back to the amendment in essence to get back the law you tabled when we all know there will be nothing out of it. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the bill in its original form, we will not support the amendments of the government, which we also find foolish to support amendments that return the law through amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Please sign up. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. The amendment before us is in a way very symbolic in nature. It is a question of knowledge, of investment in science, of research and development. In some ways, you have demonstrated this in the basic text of the law with your amendments adopted by the committee. But I warn you, it's a symbolic amendment and I don't even intend to advertise with the others anymore. Why is it symbolic? Look, in the real world, this thing shines if we put it in the context of government action after the new year. The only measure of this government, the current one, is a drastic rise in fuel prices, a drastic rise in excise duties, which is unnecessary, re-designated to have something to share, as you yourself have said right now behind this speaker panel. What does that mean in practice? That'll put a strain on everything. This kind of stimulation works on a multi-layered basis. The result will be that, for this reason, a border undertaking may be directly or indirectly affected to close the doors and extend the types of people waiting at the Employment Office to be paid back by the State from the budget from these funds, which it will raise in this way. And it'll be a vicious circle. And since it will produce less, it will also pay the week to the remaining companies, which was, as a solidarity measure, enacted a little earlier. This is a vicious circle, ladies and gentlemen, which some of you have even called a new development paradigm in the government coalition in the past days. But in this way only the lengths of the species are developed at the Employment Institute. And the only way to cut such a vicious circle is to double: for the first time, unload the economy with appropriate tax reliefs, and for the second time, to channel the economy's money into knowledge, research and development. And for that reason, this amendment is so important. For this reason, the content of the amendments that we are trying to return to the basic text of the law that you have so recklessly mutilated is so important because it is indeed so important. And only in the long run with great economic burdens and by accelerating investment in research and development, this vicious circle is interrupted and an appropriate economic basis is reached for the fact that there is nothing to share. It was very frightening to hear some of you say, yes, we have already taken 200 euros out of taxpayers' pockets, we will still be 800 euros, it seems appropriate for us to have something to share in the current ruling coalition. People of God, in the end, no one will ever take anything more. It is necessary to maintain the vitality of the economy, to accelerate development and thus to create a real basis for the well-being of all. It's so simple. And the first and most important, and once again, will be a symbolic step if you support this amendment of the SDS Group. I'll be sure to do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. In fact, it is almost unusual to look at what came out of that maligned text that was the result of yesterday’s adoption of the amendments — article 1 — is not. First it's one, and the article is deleted, and now it's two, only after the committee's report. That is why he calls for it to be filled with serious content. And it is that we are going to connect the knowledge economy and institutions, namely institutes, universities, to give the economy space to participate in development projects written to them on the skin, and they probably don't even have enough of their own resources and need cooperation with many others. And in doing so, they can benefit both from the acquisition of their own equipment and for other things also from these tax reliefs. An increase in tax incentives for R & D from 20% to 40%, which is the essence of this amendment, as tax reliefs from 40% to 60% for areas with this regional supplement, 20% of the supplement, is, in fact, as my colleague Grimes said, a truly symbolic nature. Are we in favour of raising the competitiveness of the economy through investment in research and development, and also there and when the economy is not doing its best when it is in crisis, and helping certain businesses with a mission in crisis, and that is to use the crisis to break through. Many businesses, many successful multinationals, have flourished today in the crisis. Back then, they were brave, and they invested a lot of money, not money blades, and squeezes. And here we have a conflict between these two approaches - we have a government side and a coalition that squeezes, presses and splinters to, I don't know, buy something underground when everything is there, or we want to give a message here, but not just a symbolic message, but also some financial space for businesses to invest in research and development, to invest in higher competitiveness, in the development of the Slovenian economy and consequently in economic growth. In fact, there are two concepts: one conservative, shortsighted, and the other that the state wants to tighten at this point the belt, including Members and Members, public administration, public spending on non-productive matters, for investments that do not generate any added value. And give this money, this space, this oxygen to the economy to develop, and it will bring it back in a short period of time through taxes and contributions. We will collect all of this if, of course, we believe in the ability of the Slovenian economy to develop and that it can charge money for something that will add value later. I believe that. Last time I followed economic operators for four years, I visited thousands and more businesses, I saw their intestines, I talked to workers, I visited leaders, I saw owners. And I believe in this segment. And I believe that now they need money and that now they need an incentive from the state. No, no, no. Here's the majority decision, we don't need this company or we need it more for ourselves to share that there's going to be a pool in the Russians anymore or that I don't know where else. [[The ad in the hall.]] Well, I said more. And I think this is where these two concepts come into play. And where is the knowledge - based society now? I've heard here before that the government has dedicated one call to technological development. Your Honor! The government can only work after adopted budgets, which this government has not adopted, and this Parliament, but one previous government and one previous parliament. And these are the technical executions of certain decisions and some transfers or allocations of money that have already been made. And in fact, you are praising and looking for measures that have long been designed, designed and planned. That's funny. That's funny. And I just want to say that I have read in a number of debates or read in a number of coalition documents that there is a need to raise money for research and development. Look, if you tell companies to raise their investment in R & D, they'll raise just as much as they think they're making sense. If you come across with relief, then they'll lift. And the purpose of this law is to implement what you are actually advocating. You too want, we all want the Slovenian economy to become more technologically developed, more developmentally oriented, that more knowledge is integrated into products and services. However, if companies do not invest in this and will not have any tax incentives to do so, this will not happen. Simply put! If you're gonna write it in the programs and say it, it's not gonna happen. This will happen if, in some ways, the Slovenian environment, the company's tax and tax environment encourages it to do so. And this through this amendment we simply want to return to the original text and thereby make it important to upgrade this law. And there's one more thing. The financial implications of this article, this amendment, are, in my opinion, negligible. They are not nearly the same as they might have been two years ago when we had a conjuncture, when companies also invested more courageously in R & D and benefited 20% of the existing tax relief. Now they're all in a bit of a cramp, but some of them aren't. And it is to the segment in which we believe, and tomorrow, the blue chip of the Slovenian economy, that we want to help through such amendments. I really can't find any other reason than to oppose this proposal because it came from the opposition types. I'm sure that's not public financial reasons. I'm sure that's not it! Now we are not talking about tax reliefs for investment in equipment. We are talking here about tax incentives for investment in R & D. And such vehement arguments, if we cannot afford this moment, but we can afford other punches on the pockets of our citizens and citizens, of course, are unconvincing and unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u63	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about Article 1 and the amendment? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the application. Application for Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Your Honor, I am also surprised that the Ministry and this government, at a time when much is said to be trying to help our economy in order to maintain its position, is refusing to facilitate research and development or to increase facilitation. We know that without technological innovation in such a situation, products become uncompetitive. And this situation is ideal for creative people, for creative people in the economy, science and everywhere. But apparently creative people don't care about this government. In fact, in a way, I think you don't care if the economy goes further into trouble. Although the Minister is not here, Mr Križanič, I must say that ministers must be bold in such situations. They need to see ahead, not show that they're scared, that they don't have a clear view. Let me give you one case that's from another area. On Sunday, Slovenia again celebrated skiing. Tina Maze won. And she said that Minister Beast had allowed training and trusted her and allowed her to take Slovenia back to victory in the ski grounds. At the time when everyone else advised that they should stop investing in Tina Maze, even the coaches said, "This is the end of the story. Look how magnificently she came back, because the minister was so heroic that he went to believe that he had the right choice. And here is a similar situation: if you choose correctly, then you will get our economy out of trouble first, but if you are uninnovative, without support to those who are innovative, who have knowledge, then it will go in the wrong direction and I am advocating that you miss out on supporting that, in the way that this money goes, or that this makes it easier first in the class. And through this relief, it's going to go to class. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! This law is certainly extremely important for the times in which we come, and also for our Slovenia. It is therefore a surprise to me that our ministers are not aware of this importance of the law, so I would expect that there would be at least an economic minister and a financial minister in this and other laws. Although here is a representative of the Ministry of Finance, I think these issues are more complex and they should listen to this debate and also listen to these proposals that we are trying to make during this debate. This amendment restores reliefs to science or knowledge and development, and in particular this amendment is important for different areas of Slovenia to be defined in different ways, as Slovenia is not least developed in an extremely uneven manner. It would therefore be right to do so in these times, because this crisis, which we will come into over the months, will also affect Slovenia differently, and this amendment will also be accepted. It therefore surprises me that this was deleted yesterday from the Committee as a proposed proposal for such an article and that we must now offer again in the Slovenian Democratic Party this opportunity to make it easier for science and development as well. This, in particular, surprises me when we remember two, three months ago, when we had an election campaign, it was very clear from the current coalition that we did not give enough emphasis to science and development in the previous term. But all the macroeconomic indicators show, as well as the well-known economists or recognised economists, that was the policy of the government and all the legislation that was correctly considered to be the case in 2006, 2007, and also in 2008. But these conditions are not the same today. Today, the situation is one that needs to be responded significantly faster and more comprehensively than it is now. The law that we will adopt today to subsidise working time, and the law on facilitations that we have adopted at the previous extraordinary meeting, is a step towards this, but far too little. It's really not enough. If all these packages of legislation offered by the Slovenian Democratic Party or opposition, which are truly constructive proposals, were not populism but constructive with known effects, it would probably have different effects in Slovenia today or on what is being transferred to Slovenia by other countries. This is how we deal with the raising of excise duties, as is the easiest measure to hit the pocket of the one with a few hundred euros in wages as well as the one with a few thousand euros and entrepreneurs as well. This is the easiest way to give a slap to everyone, instead of looking for solutions that could help those who could help them the most in this way. I will discuss further with the next amendments when the individual areas are further defined, but such an amendment as it is now, I think that it would be appropriate for you to consider expressing your support in the coalition and that this law will be further improved, given what was adopted on the Committee yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u68	I personally believe that we share with the opposition the desire that Slovenia be a society of knowledge and dynamic investment in research and development. We are all aware that this is the only guarantee that we will create a higher added value tomorrow and that citizens and citizens will have more of this creation. But there's a difference between us. At first, there is a difference between us as to how we understand the effect of some relief. In a situation where companies do not expect to generate profits, they promise to reduce the taxation of this profit because they will invest in research and development does not convince them that there will be no profit. That is why this is not a stimulus, but it is now an effective provocation of the opposition to bring to the centre of our attention measures which I am convinced, gentlemen, that you are also aware that they are not financially sustainable. Instead, the Slovenian Government proposes something else: on the basis of some positive practices of the previous government, strengthening calls to encourage companies to invest, research and development, technology equipment and so on, but not by promising to be paid in the next business year, when they will receive part of the return, but by providing them with the means through the calls to have a liquidity arsenal to invest in technology equipment, research and development and so on. Let me remind you that, in the context of the measures taken to deal with the financial crisis, the Government, at the time of the current call, has provided two €50 million tenders to open a new call for more companies to invest in R & D in this way, to strengthen knowledge in their company so that they can create better competitive advantages tomorrow. With this investment in technological equipment, the financial mechanisms that we will open through the Bank's SID and the like guarantee that this government has a lot of respect for research and development and wants to support them as much as possible in the economy, but in a way that will not compromise the financial sustainability that will be more targeted at those companies that have this arsenal to invest in this area and so on. Personally, I am surprised to hear that Mr Vissiak has taken on very offensive communication. I think we have also made it clear in our position that we want to look for, I say, smart solutions along with the opposition, so some comparisons in the given situation are surprising. It is up to all of us to seek better rationality in the public budget, to discover within the budget those reserves that will also allow the plasma of new measures to deal better with the financial and economic crisis. I will personally vote without a shred of bad news against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The global economic and financial situation is unfavourable. No one is likely to be able to avoid the consequences. True, one is in a slightly better position and the other is in a slightly worse position. Slovenia is certainly in a slightly better position because of a good foundation made by the previous government. We had five to seven percent economic growth. At the time, some of you laughed about it. Today you probably don't want to laugh anymore, but you do have a stake of 7% economic growth. And since this is a global problem, it is probably necessary to address it in a comprehensive manner, so this set of measures should also be considered as a whole. If we take each marriage as something special, as something specific, but we do not see the whole, then surely we will not be able to achieve the effect we want. But there may be several concepts: one more short-term, the other longer-term, or, as we have heard today, one more short-sighted, the other more developmental. And I also take this first amendment to Article 1 as a whole, as some choice from this whole. I would like to point out that this law, as well as this first amendment, have been taken as an equalization of the conditions in our Slovenian market, the conditions of the work of companies and the etc. If we have adopted a law in December that gives some reliefs to companies, but not to companies, and these companies can be comparatively very similar, we give some benefits to some, but not to others, then we can say that operators working in the field of economy are not in the same position. Why can't they be in the same position? This law, including this amendment, allows us to equalize conditions. It's spoken of as an excuse for some kind of fiscal sustainability. If fiscal sustainability is easy for some and not for others, then something is wrong. Why two fully comparable companies working in the field of the economy would be considered one but not the other. Then something's wrong and it can't hold up and it can't be like that. There is also talk of some administrative capacity, perhaps some services will not be able to follow. Then they need to be arranged so that they can follow. On the other hand, excise duties could be used to these administrative services and there was no problem of raising excise duties by just 10%. The former government has brought excise duties to the lowest possible point, no longer being able to reduce them. Now they've jumped 10%. If I were 5%, I'd still understand, but 10%?Oh, my God! Is that in terms of this paradigm of this government? I don't know if it is. In addition, if you have increased excise duty by 10%, it may be that peak or that drop in the sea when a company can sink just because it is already tense. But that's okay, that's sustainable, that's sustainable for this government, that's sustainable for relief as a "contra" measure, and that's probably not going to work. And once again, I consider this amendment a comprehensive set of measures to address the situation. Slovenia has not done it, it must be admitted, but we cannot avoid it. That's how it is right now. And somehow I can't understand. There has been so much talk about a new paradigm, including economics, including a second approach, in other areas of how this government will work. Now that we're giving tax reliefs for research and development, we've come across a wall: no, we're not going to do that. And it's not long since we talked a lot in this room, the proposals were on your side to give tax reliefs for development, if that's what's left of the investment. But no, it was the other way around, then it happened because there was an extremely dynamic development under the previous government, that you said it was harmful and that the economy was overheating and that this was a huge inflation and that investments needed to be reduced. This was with the criticism of a gentleman sitting today in the government, who is today the Secretary-General of the Government. Every day we have heard that the economy is overheating because it is too high economic growth and that research and development must be somehow reduced, and now you are talking about why we did not do so in the previous mandate. Now, something is not going to go together here, and now there is a different situation, and now it is an opportunity when it also helps to make investments, which will certainly be possible with reliefs sooner than without relief, somehow strengthen. And now I don't understand that you've changed your mind completely. What used to be black today is white, what you sometimes wanted the previous government to stop, now you're saying why you haven't increased it before. Something doesn't work out here. If economic operators will have one condition and capital companies have another condition under different conditions, then you create new divisions. This is a division between such societies and different societies. And we'd like to equalize it. And you're the one who's saying you're against any division. Yeah, I don't know. One is words, but acts are different. Today it is a case-by-case matter. Today is no longer verbal, yes, we support everything, we agree with you, but we will not support it. It is necessary to decide and support and equalise everything. Moreover, and perhaps we all agree with this, we agree that the situation that Slovenia has not produced, but we are victims, is serious and must be taken seriously. That is why it bothers me today not to see any minister here, not the Minister of Finance, not the Minister of the Economy, not the Coordinator of Economic Activities, well, I will let the Prime Minister of the Government go. There's no minister here. I do not claim or challenge the expertise of the people who are here today by the government, far from that. But I think it would be a good idea if some minister sat here. I hope they're aware of the seriousness of the situation. And if they're aware of that, then at least one of the ministers could be here today. I hope they take things seriously in the future, especially when it comes to such serious matters. I support this amendment alone, because it equates the conditions of work and the survival of operators in the field of the economy. This seems extremely important to me, and this law has also been proposed as one of these measures, which are part of that whole to achieve the desired result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u72	Mr President, I need to be corrected and ask if you'll let me, because I don't have any more time than I can see that I'm still talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u73	Yes, Mr. Rezman, and then I can't give you my word. Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? [[Yeah.]] I am opening applications for debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, the conclusion that the actual presence of those responsible in the Government, the ministers and the President of the Government is very bad, none of which is here, and we are considering the whole package of economic support laws. However, when we considered the government regulation, which, by the way, the National Assembly was not even competent, there was a President of the Government, a Minister and a whole bunch of other officials. There is a marked disproportionate imbalance in the topics dealt with in the National Assembly, in short, more or less pear matters. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to some of the differences in the approaches of the previous government and the current government to specific cases. The former government has devoted enormous attention to promoting creation, promoting economic growth and supporting economic growth. This government is extremely focused on sharing, on distributing what has been created. If we just look at the agenda for today's session. We have a government law that deals with subsidies, that is, by dividing what goes into the state budget, then we have three proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which are supporting economic operators in their development, facilitating, reducing taxes, in short, creating and strengthening the country's confidence in their capabilities. A completely diametrically opposite concept. As far as accession is concerned. The former government was focused on paying for the job. She also stimulated or rewarded payment after work in the courts. This bill, which we received a little earlier, pays for the week. There is a reverse approach in the opposite direction. The former government has also laid down the concept of equal treatment for all entities. The treatment of companies, irrespective of legal status, is valid and has given everyone equal opportunities in tax reliefs, in the event of burdens, in the event of burdens and the like. We have already faced here in this mandate that firms, such as members of the Chamber of Commerce with different legal status, are not treated equally. One or the other company received certain reliefs, certain incentives, the other part, the other segment which has the status of d.o.o., did not receive these reliefs. But on our initiative again. As far as approach is concerned. The former government responded quickly to the changed situation. She acted quickly. She quickly suggested solutions. In this case, in this mandate, we are facing extreme slowness. When the Government needs three weeks or more just for the procedure under which a particular proposal would be dealt with at all. Whether it will be by emergency procedure, or by regular procedure, or by short notice. They are very slow in defining individual proposals. As regards the proposed solution or the proposed amendment, I will certainly support this amendment, because I am aware that development must happen, that it needs to be stimulated and that this development needs to be further stimulated in Koroška, White Krajina, Kočevska. I find it difficult to accept an explanation from anyone that this amendment, which promotes facilitation for development, especially in areas that are slightly less developed, is difficult to accept and also difficult to defend. I'm sure of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u76	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. At the outset, I think it is probably best to ask ourselves what we are even discussing today, after Members of the ruling coalition adopted on the Committee yesterday the proposed amendments of the government to three of the five articles of this law, which we have tabled and thereby completely destroyed the purpose proposed. What is left aside from this substantive provision and this transitional provision when this law enters into force? There is still a provision to raise the €20,000 relief to €30,000. That's what's left of this marriage, and nothing else. And that's something. And this is also something, although I must say that I do not understand this fear of the Ministry of Finance, at least if it listens to the enlightened, some enlightened Members of the ruling coalition who have said that the financial effects of this law can never be, because there will be no profit and there will be no investment. What, then, are you afraid of when you talk about public finances being so large that they won't be covered and we'll go over 3% of Maastricht?Oh, my God! But of course it will, the financial effects will, but they will be positive. When, if not when the situation has changed and production needs to be changed, should the equipment be invested? At that time it is necessary to invest in equipment when it is necessary instead of a means that produce something that is no longer possible to sell - to say simplified, that you will all understand - to buy machines that will produce what can be sold. And then those who produce this need our support. Specific support! Not designed by famous calls for scientific and technological projects that have an effect of 80% on paper alone. These are the facts. And I personally assessed after yesterday when we discussed the second marriage for two hours; it was a law that was supposed to mean only liquidity failure, due to a reduction in the payment deadline for the VAT refund, and some members of the ruling coalition supported this change in the debates, not for seven days, but for 30, 20, 25, after you took a 15-minute break, and I found that someone else was thinking for you. All those who discussed supporting this then unitedly as one, as one man, one soldier voted against. And the law was stopped today. Ask yourself if this is the right way to deal with and act in the National Assembly. Is it the right way to ask your finance minister to throw a complete projection of all these measures on your desk? And if this projection were to say that what some, especially in the administrative services, are afraid is true, then we could talk about it in an argumentative manner. However, here, ladies and gentlemen, it is not an administrative decision, but a political decision. It is a matter of decisions when appropriate measures are needed to avoid being forced to take radically more radical measures in six months when there is no going back. That is why I will support this amendment to Article 1 and all the other amendments, because otherwise the law is completely depraved. Whether we took something or not, it doesn't matter. Because of those 10,000 euros, you know, nothing's gonna change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no desire to reduce financial resources mainly in research and development. I believe that we all know that special investment in technological development and research in particular means better long-term economic growth, especially faster development and so on. The government has adopted an increase in the aid for investments in line with public financial constraints. And these restrictions are unfortunately existing today. In particular, the investment relief is intended for smaller companies, which will have greater burden on investment reliefs than the other proposed government measures. In our view, it is more appropriate now to provide subsidies for investment in technological equipment than tax incentives to encourage investment, because this can actually encourage investment. And we would all like to see that in the coming year, that is, in 2009, they are faced with high economic growth so that they can meet, above all, all the needs that somehow occur in the economy. Unfortunately, reality is different. There is a great challenge before us - how to cope with the current crisis. However, the sincere purpose of all of us must go in the direction of taking such measures as are possible in a given situation. Nevertheless, you must admit that government measures are quite ambitious, as a number of direct measures are envisaged, which could have happened in the past, if we are honest. A new €35 million call will be launched, opening up the possibility of obtaining funds also for turnover and development, while the conditions and criteria for the allocation of funds will be adapted to the current market situation. An additional €50 million for company development projects currently in the closing phase will also be added to the call for an additional €50 million for company development projects. And you must admit that something is happening in this area and that you can recognize the sincere purpose of helping our economy as much as possible in supporting additional resources for research and development. I will not support your amendment because it seems to me that the Government's actions will help our economy more systematically than your proposal does. I only hope that you are so sincere about your proposals that you would propose them even if you were alone in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. With all due respect to the work of the previous government, I had to respond. Maybe it wouldn't hurt a little less demagogies. You keep talking about high economic growth. Yes, of course it was, because it was much bigger everywhere than it is today. Today, many countries are in recession, and it is normal for us to have less economic growth. As in your government's time, there was more inflation and now it's smaller, and I don't think we're going to raise the tables as low as inflation is now. And it is also normal that excise duties are higher, because oil is cheap, why not be a little more expensive, it is still under the euro, during your government's time the euro was 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I must reject your acknowledgment that the government is proposing non-constant solutions. Just by not supporting the R & D solution in this law, we have remained consistent with what we have proposed or supported in the framework of the Income Act. That's the first thing. Second, the importance of tax relief in the field of research and development. According to our data, 461 of the 75,000 taxpayers benefited from this tax relief. This shows that the measure is completely marginal, which you are right about. Therefore, it will not cause major financial effects in the Treasury. But this also shows that the measure is unnecessary and ineffective. The tax relief exists at 20%, we do not change anything, it remains the way it is, and this Parliament and the previous government both agreed that this is a suitable measure in the field of research and development. This government, however, proposes additional direct measures that will indeed achieve everything. Even those who do not have profits would like to invest in research and development. We therefore support such solutions. If you'll excuse me, just one more clue. The government's perception is that it's slow and it's not responding. The former government has left the scene with high economic growth, high inflation and favourable economic conditions, which have already shown a declining trend. But the budget was solid. This month and a half, we have found that government revenue in the state treasury will be 2% lower than what was planned in 2007. And that the public financial expenditure from the legislation adopted last year is a good 6% real higher than what was planned in 2007. We cannot take measures to push this fiscal situation down to 5.6% of the deficit before we examine all the issues so that we know exactly where we are going to reduce the expenditure, what revenue, and then consistently propose all the solutions so that we do not make the mistake we would now make. You are well aware, however, that the balance of the state budget and the two public finances cannot be drawn up within one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u83	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 1? [[Yeah.]] There is still interest, and I am opening an application for a debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Tax relief in the economy is essential in particular for smaller companies. More needs to be invested in development, one that will ensure long-term economic growth. Of course, I would ask myself here how much we have done so far in the direction of development and how many development centres we have with us that offer our entrepreneurs something new, something that will be interesting and marketable on the world market. I think very little is done in this direction. Of course, all of this is also a reflection of our economic situation as we have it. Of course, people need to offer jobs, not just jobs. The fact that we only provide jobs is too small must also have the effect of long-term economic growth. One important measure must be the reduction of payment deadlines and payment discipline must be introduced and monitored. Credits to firms must be beneficial. In particular, they need to be rescued faster. Of course, only in this way will they have an effect on the economy. I would particularly like to point out here those loans that are necessary for restructuring and for development programmes. There is a predominant opinion among economists that a hundred small problems must be solved before, and a major problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Two things. Firstly, it is true that the 2009 forecasts have changed over the last few months, especially the outlook for economic growth and the resulting tax collection in 2009, in order to reduce revenues. That's right. It is also true that the previous government has taken into account the adopted wage reform in the public sector in the context of the two-year budget rebalancing and that we cannot therefore take this into account. But it is also true that you have already established some revenue in the budget. And that's an increase in excise duty on propulsion fuels. This will be a percentage of GDP, or some percentage, that will be able to cover these proposals. However, here we have heard the Government, which on the one hand says that this concrete measure is not necessary, but excuses it by not having money for it, and says it is unnecessary, because it costs a lot or does not cost much, but otherwise it is unnecessary, but says that there is no money. If there's no money, then it's necessary, but you don't want it because there's no money. But if it doesn't require a lot of money, then take it. I strongly oppose this view that this is not a necessary measure. You yourself have entered into a coalition agreement to promote private investment in research and development. I have no idea of a more effective measure for this purpose than to introduce higher tax reliefs. You wrote a coalition contract when they were already 20% tax relief. If you want to encourage further, then you have politically defined that this is a necessary measure, not that it is not necessary, as you say. I do not know how else horizontally the most equitable to promote investment in research and development is to make it possible for everyone to do so through this law. And there's one more thing. I don't know, some people still think that economic growth in Slovenia has happened just because there was a global, European conjuncture, and here we are a leaf floating in the middle of this environment and it took us with it. I must disappoint you that the developed economies, which have not recorded economic growth at all, have been insignificant, such as Italy. Italy has moved forward through Europe's conjuncture with what percentage point of economic growth. And we're 6, 5, on average, 5.5 in the last four years. I don't think it's true that the environment itself has generated. Economic growth in Slovenia has mainly generated good, quality companies that we want to take. To get this wind in the sails, however, companies must have a favourable business environment, which is the responsibility of the government or the most responsible one. On the one hand, taking care of the new revenue in the budget through excise duties on motor fuels would probably not be as valuable or, I would say, not so much "riding" at the same time if there were other strong measures that would relieve and help the economy. Here we are, under that first law. The first marriage, if I understand correctly, speaks of 60 euros per month per employee. This means that because a maximum of 6 months can be applied, 360 euros per employee is given to the employer. This is said to consume as much money as a single excise measure should have in Slovenia, I don't know, half a million workers to which this measure would apply. And we won't. It is not true that a single legacy is an obstacle to the inability to act. In every environment, you have taken certain measures, you have introduced excise duties, because you have done well, indeed, by hand, not to fall oil prices on global markets and consequently the fall of fuel fuels, and it has been possible to raise excise duties substantially 14 days ago without changing retail prices. This was advocated by government economists, former SD ministers, czech, yes, it is nice that oil prices are stable so that they do not change, so it is necessary to welcome the Government's measure to raise excise duties and thus maintain prices at the same level. Two days ago, however, you raised the prices of oil derivatives simply because of the raising of excise duties; some would not have changed at all. So also this argument, this saving plant that some economist gave you, is gone. Once again, I believe that some Members with large salaries do not mean 200 euros at the annual level. But I believe that some woman in the Mura who's driving, say, 20, 30 kilometers to work, or in Paloma or somewhere else, that means something. That means, say, we can almost half her net monthly salary. And you took half her monthly net salary so you wouldn't suggest anything that would relieve the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u88	Perhaps I would suggest that we stick to the comments on the amendment tabled and try to focus primarily on the topic on the agenda. I would just like to stress as a matter that is perhaps unclear in all this debate that we have not only spoken against your proposal because there is no money for it, but because we really believe that it would not have worked as we would have liked in this current situation. And if you have looked at some of the government's actions and proposals, you see that there is a genuine intention to rescue businesses in a direction that will make it easier for them to cope with the economic crisis. Many such measures are good. I believe that many of them have been identified as good by you and that you know that what you say is not true is that we are somehow blocking or reducing financial resources for companies that would like to invest in research and development. That's not true. You know it's not true. This is evident from all the information and from the sincere intentions that the Government wants to make in the future. True, though, it will be much easier when we find a common language for what can bring greater solutions, not that we will make each other happy in the National Assembly. Today, dear Members and Members of the opposition particularly, I would like you to be constructive and to propose real proposals. Those that will also be realistic in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies from the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members. Why have we decided to table an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party? It is precisely because it is important now to help businesses by investing in technological equipment, development and science. In 2008, as you say or we all talk together, there was a lot of money in companies. Companies now have money, and they need to be helped to invest more in science and development. It may be too late in 2009 for us to devote ourselves to such reliefs and such things. We passed a law that actually allows only relief to S.P., independent entrepreneurs, and by no means d.o.o. I don't know where that leads. Even d.o.o.s are actually companies that have one employee or even up to 50 or more, as well as s.p.s., independent entrepreneurs. Why are they now, if I may say, bullied by us 90 people in here? But I have to admit, from coalition partners, not from us. We are therefore proposing amendments to actually help this recession, which is somehow coming, which has already come to the automotive industry in Slovenia. We were pretty quiet when you passed the excise law. I have to admit, at the end of the day, fuel really jumped by another 10% yesterday, but only in Slovenia. You need to know that Slovenian citizens, Slovenian companies now go to neighbouring Austria, to neighbouring Croatia. I want to tell you why and what the result will be in Slovenian oil companies: less inflows, less in revenue, less in revenue for the country. These are things we need to be aware of. Why did the former minister actually keep excise duties at the lowest level in the government? This is precisely because it was then the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, transport companies in the European scale. Certainly not from this point of view to actually charge money to the state in this way, but on the other hand, they did what is now that 2,000 trucks are parked. This has been done by the current government, not by the previous government, as you say. Therefore, he commended the former minister for having listened to such things. I'd like to say this, too. You're saying there's actually an additional 50 million investment money earmarked for development and new investments. That's right. You demanded that it be extended, make a new deadline for these reliefs. You know what this thing will bring if it is not actually a proposal of a day, let this list or actually these applications, which have already been sent to the Ministry of Small Economy or the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, be extended. This is an additional six months when companies cannot use this 50 million euro money. These are the things that matter. Thank God it was reasonable that it was done as it was proposed on our part. You're talking about the money you invest that helps businesses. I don't see us helping companies. Everyone on the road is telling us that we are hurting the economy, even though we are putting amendments into proposals that are not supported in any way. I would like to see as many economists as possible in these parliamentary groups or benches, and it would be likely that thinking would be quite different when it comes to adopting laws as it is now. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about Article 1 and the amendment? I'm reopening the debate. We are still under Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u92	Thanks again for saying that. Look, I have discussed earlier and I reiterate that the situation in Slovenia today is quite different than it was in last year and 2007 and also in 2006. The government must respond to this situation. Madam, here you have mentioned that in the past there has been only so much and so much interest from companies for research and development. I believe so. Because with such economic growth, with orders such as those made by companies at the time of the Slovenian conjuncture, no one or very few really thought about investing in some new technologies, in some new development, because the already existing order gave them so much revenue and everything that they had to do with not thinking. But today, when someone has a production, this was mentioned earlier by colleague Visjak when that product is no longer for sale, and today he has to think about buying a new machine. The funds we will give through the call is the right measure, but it is not sufficient, especially if it is somehow estimated that it will not have such a financial negative impact on the budget. Let us give them the opportunity to make a profit, to devote those funds to new machines and thereby to redirect production and maintain new jobs and create new taxes that our budget will have. This is the right path, and with this amendment we defend this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I am surprised by some of your opinions on how you justify and reject this amendment, in fact, this relief. Mr Kek is known to be dealing with a hidden camera, but apparently he also walked blind around the world and did not see the actions of the previous government. He says that high economic growth came on its own, that it was everywhere. No, Mr. Kek. If you were to walk with your eyes open and not blind around the world, you would see that the previous government after one month did not accept an annex to the coalition contract, like yours today is some protocol. You're dealing with yourself. The economy is sinking and you're not dealing with the economy. Moreover, Mr Levanic says: "We do not believe that investment in development and science and technological innovation can work." I hope, Mr. Levanic, that this is the conclusion of the kindergarten. That they gave you as the youngest to communicate such messages. That this is not the position of the entire, most powerful party. However, if you have been appointed an economic expert, this is extremely worrying. Around the world, there can be a serious economy, new products based only on investments in technological innovation research. You're rejecting it. I must say, you send incredibly bad symbolic messages from these sent-off benches. She's incredibly weak. You tell entrepreneurs, "Close the door as soon as possible." Unfortunately, this is a dangerous message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Levanic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u96	Mr Jerovšek, I am an economic expert just as much as you are foreign policy. That's probably how we're at the same point somewhere. And second of all, I'd like to say that you're twisting my words again. I never said that financial injections into research and development did not allow for development. I said your proposal wouldn't work. Read your magnetogram. This is available to Members and Members of Parliament today, so don't worry. I believe, however, that in a different way, different measures can help the economy more. And again. I would like them to take such sincere action and propose such proposals even if you were in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your coalition contract. I heard the Secretary of State say there is no need to raise tax incentives for research and development. They don't think that's necessary. This is what the Members said. That it's not a measure he takes. However, you wrote: "We will encourage the importance of knowledge and research for the future development of Slovenia and enable businesses to implement, firstly, co-financing educational institutions from which they acquire staff and co-financing research work at the institutes, as additional reliefs from corporate income tax." You wrote that in a coalition contract. These are tax reliefs for research and development. Additional tax incentives for research and development. You have written this down as additional relief from corporate income tax. That's what we're proposing. You say it's not necessary. Your coalition contract has been dead for the second month of your reign.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u99	Thank you. There's no replica. You weren't appointed. But you will also touch on these subjects in the debate. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues, vice-president, colleagues and colleagues! In these times, the Slovenian opposition is preparing and dealing with the problem of the Slovenian economy, not only in Parliament, but also in preparing the meeting because it is simply concerned. That is why, of course, she also proposed three amendments to the laws. Thus, the Income Act, then the VAT and what we are considering now, is an amendment to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, for one reason in order to give the economy a possible impetus and turn towards a re-economic conjuncture. But if we look at what the coalition is doing, which is exactly what the opposition is doing, then we read that next Thursday the Human Resources Council will start working and that they will launch legal procedures to identify those responsible in the supervisory council in the administration of Skimar, Paloma and so on. Of course, it raises the question of what is the responsibility of Koržet, what is the responsibility of the director of the Ljubljana Bank, which means that he bears a million euros of Kramar for lending, when managers can wildly buy companies and so on. Unfortunately, we also listen to Members or Members who deal with how credible someone is in an area, someone who has worked for 13 years, say, in one area or someone who has not worked for 13 years in the Talum, and the Talum is still living and working on the basis of his knowledge and the projects he led. But someone who's been in the Talum for a year is actually hearing and reading after this year that the Talum is closing. Then there is the question of who has done something or what credibility there is. These amendments and this amendment to Article 1 are the basis that we should not only support with our hands open, but say, here we have made a mistake, we have forgotten or what I know, something like this. Not only does the bill passed by the coalition raise the question, namely, this law is valid or it will be able to be implemented for six months, until something "out of reach" is in the bag. What if there's no more "nothing to take" out of the bag or when the bag is "drinking" less and less? Therefore, such fire-fighting measures as proposed by the coalition are simply insufficient. You know, at the beginning of this term, I said that some still have milk teeth in politics, and I seriously think this time too, but maybe sometimes it is good to listen to the opposition and what a good suggestion it is to accept. We have done this many times in the previous term, but only when the proposals were really good when it was not a guess. In this case, in fact, the rejection of proposals starts just because they came from the opposition, it doesn't matter if they're good, 'no, we won't accept them'. But I tell you, at this point of economic recession, it's not worth playing, you've already played with damage and property. At the time, it was about the same composition, or LDS was then large and main, which favoured this astronomical place of the Slovenian economy. Just remember the Tama rescue bill, billions went into private pockets. And now we really need to conclude these kinds and listen, because we have really good and fair intentions with the proposed legislation and amendments. I'll support the amendments myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Respectable associates and associates, respected others! Yeah, it's true. We have written in the coalition agreement to promote research and development. And we're actually doing it now. And, yes, we also warned about that at a time when some of you were ministers. We have pointed out that the Slovenian economy needs to move forward in research and development. And you, ministers, have explained how our economy is in excellent shape and does not need it. I'm glad you found out the other way around today. At the same time, it should be noted that the proposals which will be adopted in the short term stem from responsibility for the budget and come from the country. The coalition's proposals stem from responsibility for the electorate. Your proposals come only from the need for their votes. This, in my view, is irresponsible, irresponsible in particular to all those who depend on the country in one way or another, on the students, on the sick, on the elderly, and on the weaker social strata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u103	Thank you. As a bill-maker, please, Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u104	Yes, of course, it is necessary to hold on to any rescue plant to get people out of a situation where the coalition contract clearly tells them not to encourage research and development, but to do so through the law on corporate income tax, through this law that is on the table today, not just, I don't know, in principle. It is best to say something in principle, and then there is no concrete action. You wrote that you would further encourage this through the tax, through the law on corporate income tax. Read it! Unfortunately, most of you, on the other hand, don't even know what you've accepted, what your commitments are. It's not your commitment to argue with us here, but it's your commitment to do what you wrote down, what people have chosen you to do. That's one thing. The second thing, mentioned was responsibility to the budget. We have heard, however, that this law or this amendment is not that connected and is not a problem with the budget. That it is not necessary, we have heard, despite the fact that the coalition contract says you will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u105	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I shall then reopen applications for the debate on Article 1. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. My debate will be more, I would say, procedural in nature. Mr President, I have been struck by your failure to respond to some of the statements mentioned in this debate. I think it is extremely inappropriate for Members to be labeled after their age and sent to kindergarten in this high assembly, to be referred to as a mammary tooth. I am not one of the Members here who is one of the younger half of this assembly, hearing talk about age, senility and toothlessness. And I would hope that this kind of practice will be rare and that all the presidents, with you in charge, will be able to stop such debates before they cross the border of good taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I intended to remain silent, but some former ministers, ex-ministers, as well as Members who sat in the previous term, need to be reminded of some things and perhaps restored to them. I know you've been breathed since you landed in the opposition on September 21st. However, when you talk about something, you still need to catch some air before you pass a final judgment. I would remind you, headed by the Minister of Economy, and some of the ministers who sat here, remember the multi-year discussions on tax reform and the debate on investment in technological innovation, tax relief and so on. Read your discussions, your views and the views of the opposition at the time, and this is not so far back. This is in 2007, you don't have to go back any further. When I listen today to what the good old government has done, I cannot help but say that if the previous government really did solve and listen, as you say today, to the economy and somehow suggest to this government that it should listen to the economy, then today this government would not have the same problems as it does, but despite the financial crisis, that we are in economic trouble and some say that we are not in recession. More money than it has been in Slovenia in the past three years has been gone and will be gone for a long time. And my question to you, along with the ex-exminists, is, who brought us into this situation? And don't tell me America's over the lagoon and so on. So do we, including with the policies of the former government and also with the loss of the former government. Remember and see, today you have written development programs and projects up to 2023 - amusement parks and so on. What did you write in those development projects? Today, of course, some more serious things are ridiculed and despised. Who has so enormously increased their external debt over the past three, four years?Oh, my God! Who has hired enormously expensive loans at the time of the economic and economic growth you are talking about for infrastructure and so on so that, of course, today's government is dealing with these problems it is in. I'm not gonna say it's just the previous government. We're all responsible for this. Even all members of the opposition and those in the position of the previous term. However, most of the responsibility lies with the current, present-day opposition, the one who has been sitting in government chairs for the past four years. And one more for the end. Nothing happens overnight. Neither can the financial crisis. That's why it's a very important timing. And some of the responsibilities in the management and management of the country are very clear about this timing. And in the last four years, this responsibility is very clear. So don't turn it around and turn it over to a government that just sat in its chairs on November 21st and hang that responsibility for four years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u110	I would think that any debate in this meeting would be welcome if it led to some common solutions. But it seems to me that it's been repeating itself over and over again. No new arguments are added to this, and with what we have been able to hear in the past days, the opposition cannot convince us with its proposals. What we would expect from people, including former ministers, is that they understand that the state is in one delicate position, mainly due to the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, that the past decisions of the former government have made the public financial situation so acute that we are at the border of meeting the Maastricht criteria. I believe that, on the other hand, you can also see this as a problem and one common challenge, which represents a common platform for thinking about new measures. Without that, we won't get far. But speaking of this concrete measure, let me try again to explain. In a situation where there is no profit or could be less profit than in the past years, when a government could come for a similar reason and the effect on the scope of research and development, investment in knowledge in a Slovenian society in the past could not encourage anyone, because expectations of profit are very small and no one will be stimulated by the fact that in a year and a half he will receive the investments he will make today. What is the right measure to encourage investment in research and development in the Slovenian community and society is grants. We also plan these funds as planned by the Slovenian Government through a package of calls for proposals in the area of R & D financing. In addressing the other amendments, we will also come up with questions about investment in technological equipment and so on. It would be time to conclude this debate to make decisions in this regard, because it is obvious that the debate on this amendment is a particularly welcome opportunity for the opposition to repeat and repeat its arguments indefinitely.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The debate, such as today's, will certainly not contribute much to the exit from the crisis we are in. I can recognise the opposition's positive purpose, of course, the additional education funds are always and everywhere on the ground. I am sure, as I have also heard from Madam Secretary, that when we resolve the matter globally and in the package, it is also up to us. And then I'll be glad if we don't split up into positions and opposition like that and we'll back it up. However, there have been some completely depressed statements that only pour oil on the fire of contentions. But surely those who are the loudest today and who are reading this to us, a few months ago, were driving with expensive auditions, of course, they were here in front of parliament in burning cars waiting for the drivers to get cold, and, of course, they had a rather luxurious representation, of course I would have asked them to look at this data four years ago and pour themselves a clean wine and look in the mirror, especially to think about those of their ministerial colleagues from the predecessor who didn't have this happiness, or, I will say, accidents, the voter confidence to repeat the mandate and now have quite a generous substitute for the whole year's work. This must also be realistic and taken into account. Above all, one message for the government that is gone, for the one that is now, and I am sure that as a member of this coalition I will also see the time, the better coming, that when we are doing well, when the economic growth is great, then something must be put aside for bad times. Of course, you did not do this to your fellow opposition today when you had the chance. And also this, excise duty, petrol and oil were, in times of exceptional economic growth, which will be difficult to meet, significantly larger and higher than today. As far as the amendment is concerned. The spirit is positive, good. I'll back him up when the time is right. And today, I'm judging that this is not an opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that your demagogies and populism are incredible, and I must also say that I do not believe in yours if I quote Mr Pukšič, fair and good intentions. Let me tell you why. For four years you have shown us that we live in paradise, that we have record economic growth, that this government, the former government, is responsible for more than 10,000 jobs. We have had every opportunity to invest in development, to invest in our potentials, which Slovenia has, I admit, enormously. But, gentlemen, as my colleague Kumer said, September 21st was an election, and since then public finances are no longer your concern, they are no longer your concern and you sleep peacefully at night, I believe. I wouldn't if I were you. And if you were really worried if you really wanted to invest more, you could invest in the last four years when we had the perfect opportunity. And, gentlemen, your laughter only bears witness to one thing. That what you're doing right now is childish and nothing else. Otherwise, I wouldn't be able to see myself laughing all day on this side today, because that's funny. And when we talk about relief. What government, though, has abolished housing relief? Is that what the current government has done? You kept saying that the previous government had redistributed the burden evenly. You explain to all these young people, and there aren't many of them, according to my data, over 100,000, correct me, if that's not right, what did they have out of it? Have you been able to explain to them today why you stopped the housing allowance if we were all doing well? So, then, what was your noble purpose in abolishing housing relief? And you're asking what we're afraid of. Nothing. But we don't care about our future together. Mr. Visjak, you've obviously read our coalition treaty a hundred times. I read yours four years ago, too. And in the beginning, I think on the first or second page you wrote, "We'll lead by example." In four years, I think you've proved what an example you've set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. As a proponent. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u116	If we cared little about the fate of this country, we would not even propose certain solutions that we think are good. Deploying the economy, helping businesses in the direction of further development is actually betting on the dragging horse, and of this we will all have, not on short notice, but on a long run, something. And who brought the country here, as one coalition member rhetorically asked, will be able to say in the absence of action by the current authorities in two months, when you will actually take full responsibility for the situation. We want to help you now. We would like to make suggestions to show you what we think it would be what could have gone on. You're rejecting it. At the same time, you do not propose anything other than that the water spoons actually extinguish the fire, such as the law that we discussed at the beginning of this meeting, but that you raised the excise duty, and you took some measures that did not work, and we proposed them then. The only measure to encourage the financial sector is that the state guarantees the bank deposits it has received, and people do not mass turn to the bank window and raise their deposits. Those other laws that we have proposed, and you have also supported them and have been made together, have not been affected by the amendment of the Public Finance Act. Banks don't service the economy today, and I'm afraid you have no more ideas what to do. We have ideas, we suggest something. I'm not saying that's all and that's enough. It's something. You reject this and ask us who is now responsible for the situation. That's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u117	Thank you. Anyone else want some of the 1st article? I'm still opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Like Dusan Kumer, I didn't mean to call today, but at the latest implementation of Mr Visionak, which we have been listening to all day, the financial and economic expert, we see where this expert economy in Slovenia has brought. With such economic growth I would only answer him when you say that water spoons are used to extinguish fires, unfortunately you and the tankers have extinguished candles, so we have come to have the situation as it is in Slovenia. I hope and also ask the Government to do audits not only in the state budget, to do business audits in all state-owned companies that had so much money in the previous mandate that they could sponsor projects such as the Slovenian Week, Express, and I do not know what other things, but unfortunately these companies do not have the money to pay for subcontractors, they do not have the money to spend money on development. And you've been creating, with demagogism, how you need to continue to develop these economies that are without money. No wonder your vice-president for the economy doesn't know that excise laws are not passed in the National Assembly, but that this is the government's job. Then I wonder to the gentleman of the rear that he is making a fool of our youngest Members, but I believe they are much better than some of yours with many experiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u120	Not only one of the neighbouring countries, but virtually all neighbouring countries have achieved three to five times lower economic growth than Slovenia in the last two years of our mandate. That's why your ridicule in this part was definitely out of place. Even more, no government has ever received such high-quality legacy as you have received it. You had a positive budget, you had a high economic growth, and you went to the elections with the promise of "Slovenia can be led better". People believed you and trusted you. Now prove it, ladies and gentlemen! Just not with arrogant rejection of all our proposals, but then you say that we have not proposed anything, and at the same time you are not proposing any better solutions. This is not the right way, it is just the way to keep more and longer species in the employment agency and less and less money to share with your colleagues, which some of you have talked about very directly, you have predicted. And in the end, you will be able to turn your anthem from international to that of Adi Smolar, "The Employment Institute, this is where dreams end". And that's what we wanted with these marriage proposals to stop us. I regret that you have so casually rejected them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Campus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u122	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are at the amendment, which, of course, I will not support, because I have in the hands of the new Entrepreneur, which states: "An invitation to research projects, development projects in companies, first deadline for application 23.1.2009, second June 2009, third deadline, fourth deadline" and so on, "there is a million euro available." It's right here. Now, of course, if I speak to you, allow me, everything needs to be seen a little more realistic, a little more prudent and not exaggerated. The panic created by the opposition is unnecessary and harmful at the moment. It is clear and loud that not all businesses in Slovenia are in crisis. Only those who are actually in crisis need to be tackled. There's not a lot of them, but there's not 100% of them. And we want to help those in this crisis and those workers who are employed in crisis firms to keep their jobs. That is the essence of today’s congregation. Then why are we going to do this? I see no reason to go after those companies that are doing great, export-oriented, and so on. Only those in crisis need to be fought. It can also happen that some companies will use this crisis as a cover for their own good. All these adopted laws must now be placed under scrutiny and monitored. I appreciate that our ministers have, I can say, the manhood that they have hoped to come before the Commission and speak with discretion in all matters. This means how far we can burden our state budget. This is not the case at all; it can also happen with all these measures; I am not just talking about this amendment to bring about the collapse of our budget and even illiquidity. What happens, then, if we exaggerate, as you suggest at this point, that we go with no idea how many measures and overindebted in this sense of inefficiencies in our national budget? Then, at some point in time, the state budget may not be able to pay some of the parts that are currently in management. Are we going to contribute to the collapse of some companies or that some companies will not get paid for their work? Then what can happen to those companies, you can study for yourself. There's been a lot of crowding today, and the balls are flying here and there. I hope that some people should have more prudence because they could all start in this sense "because the former government has financed banks that went to the managers' ransoms, because the former government has made a substantial contribution to the crisis in Slovenia and has employed 150 people five days before they surrender the new government" and so on. I am only disappointed with one gentleman, the Minister for the Economy, the former. I've been with him a few times in the past, and I've estimated that he's close to entrepreneurship and crafts and I wanted to say the following. We know that craftsmen and entrepreneurs are the ones who in this country guarantee their assets for all decisions that are in the sense of business decisions and so on. I really want to know how far these things have come now, which we too want to settle, how far those managers who are currently running the state-owned companies that have been politically installed. Do they have any responsibility, or do they have any material responsibility, or do they only receive financial rewards that are independent of performance, or do they have unlimited time? Yes, I admit that in Slovenia many billions have gone away over the last few years due to irresponsibleness in individual companies. Don't say I'm pushing, I'll only mention two, the ones that are close to me, the ones that I know. Paloma. The former financial director brought his men for the rescue team, did nothing or even knew how to mate with the demands of time. And, of course, at this point, I don't see the former Minister of Finance. I think he's gone. The same story was the Vrhnika leather industry. I feel sorry for these people. It is already necessary to say bob beans, some solutions need to be prepared. At this point, I believe that this government is competent, capable of bringing Slovenia out of the crisis as soon as possible with as few scratches. This is so general if all of you have allowed yourselves to have a discussion a little wider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 1? It is of no interest, then I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? First of all, as a motioner, please welcome Mr. Visjak. Then I'll open the application.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u124	I see that some Members have launched personal attacks, let's say, on me, but this will not confuse me. I have a little time, so I'll try to explain this amendment. In fact, this amendment restores the text of the law to the basic proposal that the tax relief for investments in equipment and intangible fixed assets amounting to 30% and is limited only to the tax base. It's not the 30,000-euro limit. I think this is an appropriate solution, as it was for the Income Act. With this we wanted to tax on investments in equipment and intangible assets to equalize independent entrepreneurs and businesses, because I don't think it's fair to distinguish them from areas of investment, and that what the coalition is proposing is really "good water", that is, it's limited to 30,000 euros. Imagine what one Gorenje, Krki, Iskri autoelectrica means that only up to EUR 30,000 can effect these tax reliefs in the tax year. It's nothing, according to your household. You've mutilated the basic proposal into some bits that aren't essential. What you've just done with the law I've proposed is really not worth the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u125	Thank you. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself wanted to come to this amendment mainly because I think this measure is one of the key measures and one of the most important when we are talking about investment facilitation. And it bothers me when we talk so that these measures, which are intended to promote economic development, are unnecessary or ineffective. And since I always like to be concrete myself, I will tell one story that is unfortunately true and is connected to the company in which I used to work, in Nafta Lendava. Many of you know that this company has been going through a difficult calvary also because of such and different political games and that in 2000 we closed the only Slovenian refinery that would have come in particular to us in these difficult times of the energy crisis. However, at the time the decision was taken, the refinery was closed and, after hard work, we managed to stabilise the company's business, so that it became as stable as it became as a firm, put it in some form that it was not least able to decide recently also for investments that could have kept this company for a longer period. We decided then on two investments, one at 20 million euros and one at 10 million euros. Unfortunately, an investment worth 20 million has stopped due to problems in the financial sector, in banking, because banks are no longer prepared to monitor such investments. The second investment of EUR 10 million is practically completed and, according to the information I have, it will be operational within a month, or it will start operating, so the factory will be "launched". When we decided on these investments, we calculated that we would raise 20% to 30% of the capacity with them, that income would be appropriate, and that profit would be so much higher. Unfortunately, in the meantime, the orders fell by 30%. In calculating the profitability of these investments, these 30% were also taken into account and, of course, what the new investment will bring. Since Nafta Lendava did not have any savings, this investment was largely financed by loans. And here comes the added value of these proposals that are on the table today. It can happen that this company will not be able to repay these loans tomorrow. And that because she wanted to go on a new path, because she wanted to open up new development opportunities, because of this, according to her own words, it would "be dead". And from this point of view, I see the added value of this law. I have given you one example of such cases, according to my assessment there are many in Slovenia, and at the time of this merger many entrepreneurs made a much bolder choice for investments. I'm afraid if we don't feel so brave and we don't feel the need to help the economy in this segment, to stop these investments, or as we can say that investments will fall. And not just that they're going to fall for themselves, that they're going to be the reason that companies are going to fail. And I would suggest that we take this very seriously once again, also because of the story I have told, and there are probably more of these stories, and I have also supported the issue with the figures that we have dealt with in the previous Law on Partial Full-time Subsidisation, where it is somehow envisaged that this measure would require EUR 230 million. If we took the example that everyone who decided on this measure would go to that 60+60 option, 120 for six months, that is 720 euros for 320,000 employees. I think that the sum of the funds envisaged for this measure has been miscalculated that it is foreshadowed. If all the measures are accounted for in a similar way, we probably will not know or be able to implement any measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u127	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 2? Yeah, it's still an interest. I'm opening the application. Mr. Crossman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! I just want to draw attention to a few things from the previous term. Not just to spit on someone and call them to account, but just to let them know. In your previous term, you placed Luka Koper in Inter-Europe in the supervisory councils of your people. Inter-Europe, the director or CEO of the Inter-European administration, invested €40 million in Russia at the conclusion of the Supervisory Council, everything else up to 150 on his own, and later with enormous sufferings and problems and with the media, and I do not know what he has put together, and I think he has also legalised in some way. At least I hope so. The fact is that this company was poor and that the Ministry of Transport also partly cared for this company. So also in Luka Koper, a parade horse of the economy, if you want, the Primorska parade horse was poor because of the wrong investments, the stopped investments, the construction of business facilities, and I don't know everything yet. Nothing's happening. These people are still sitting there enjoying themselves. This is what I am saying to you because when you, Mr Vizjak, spoke, I listened to you, and I did not jump into your words, nor laughed, nor did I move around in your chair. With this I just wanted to tell you that it is not all the way you say it, and that the measures that you are now proposing, not that they are funny, you make fun of those who have been put incapacitated into place, that certain things have led to such a point. You need to rent this. Don't mind. I didn't name anyone myself. These are the facts. A few weeks from now, you'll be able to look at the balance sheet of these companies four years ago and the moment these people leave. Then you will see the success of managing the best part of the economy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will discuss the amendment to Article 2 of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. What are you talking about, gentlemen?Oh, my God! The Director of Intereurope and the Director of Luke were selected on the basis of a call for competition by several candidates. If you do not believe this, read the documentation from that period. Unlike now that he will appoint such people as the so-called professional non-political council called the Government, which is called the KAS, which is chaired by the former LDS candidate. So much for that. You're saying that public finances after 21.9 are no longer your business and you're pointing your finger at us. Well, they're yours, gentlemen. No, it's a completely wrong understanding of these chairs you're sitting on. Public finances in this country are entrusted to us all sitting here in responsible management. By 21.9. or more days, because we know that it takes some time to transfer the powers of the government, the government of Janez Janša, from then on with a little more responsibility to the government of Borut Pahor. But with our responsibility, none of our property is ours. The legacy of the government of Janez Janša is catastrophic. Really? At the end of 2008, public financial surplus, average economic growth in 2008 was over 4%. What will be the legacy after 2009, 2010, we will talk about this when the time and place in this National Assembly will be. If you do not believe this to us, believe at least your President, Borut Pahor, that the changed economic situation is not the responsibility of Janez Janša and his government. That's what he said here, about this pay phone. Read your magnetogram if you don't believe me. What are we talking about in this article and this amendment? That you'll understand because I see you're having trouble understanding. At this point, I must say that I am very disappointed that this amendment was not supported by the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Klun, on the Committee yesterday. I hope that this error will be rectified and will be at least today at the plenary session, because this confirmation will not change your refusal anyway. We are talking about someone investing, say, in a million-euro pellet factory, being able to implement 300,000 reliefs. Someone who made the same investment on the other side of the yard in the amount of EUR million and under this Article only EUR 30,000. This is what we are talking about - the inequality between legal entities in relation to their formal legal status. And, Mr Han, when you were so vehemently troubled by Mr Bezjak's mistake, it was embarrassing to say. You said the Treasury Act didn't accept the National Assembly. Of course he is! It's the Treasury Act, it was adopted by the National Assembly. And you, who are second in office in the National Assembly, should already know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 2 is no longer open to debaters. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to an amendment to Article 3 of the Act. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm giving you time to start the interview application. Mr. Luka Yuri has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Once again, well-respected coworkers, coworkers. The amendment was written for the same purpose. It's understandable, after all. The opposition is doing what they consider to be their work, and this is to try to obtain as many "reviews" as possible on public opinion polls. That's understandable. Any, including the most basic, economic analysis of the current situation, says that it is necessary to encourage consumption, but not to encourage businesses to use their money for other purposes, which is not consumption. The very concept of recession or one of the main factors behind the recession is the decline in demand, i.e. the decline in consumption. That's pretty clear to us. By reducing our rate, we are actually reducing the share of financial resources that the country will be able to use for this particular consumption. So you're working against what you want to fix. You want to reduce consumption and increase recession. That doesn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you. I will support the third and fourth amendments myself. There will be no more time for the fourth amendment to the debate, and of course the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. I think that this law, this amendment is necessary and that it is more justified than the law that we have considered under point 1. I think that this measure is one of those which is more equal to all legal entities in the country, because subsidising working time is not, of course, because it has nothing to do with the declared equality before the law. Those companies that are good, which are successful in the market, which are flexible, which are innovative, will have nothing since the subsidisation of working time. The reduction in tax rates that we are talking about now is what will benefit everyone. Unfortunately, this government sends laws to the National Assembly in small amounts, somehow in drops, so we have to go to the opposition. And again, unfortunately, the coalition rejects these laws smoothly. And the crisis is big and he knocks on the door. On the other hand, the coalition deals with itself, we see that it organizes coalition peaks. Today in the Slovenian press, we can read on the front page the title on the reconciliation meeting of the presidents of the government coalition, on the calming of coalition differences. But we can be in the cold soon enough, in the cold. It is also interesting that, unlike the Slovenian government, the German government worked yesterday and adopted a heavy package of measures for EUR 50 billion. This consists of infrastructure investments and tax reliefs. The first package, amounting to €31 billion, was adopted by the German government before the new year. Let's see how Merklov thinks. 17.3 billion euros will be spent by Germany for investment in roads, railways, schools, universities, hospitals. So they will not pay those who wait at home for work, but they will stimulate investment through this financial injection. Tens of thousands of people will get the job. The threshold for the non-taxable part of income will increase, the minimum tax rate in Germany will be reduced from 15% to 14%. They will reduce contributions to compulsory health insurance from 15.5 to 14.9%. The recipients of the child supplement will receive an additional EUR 100 per child. Those who drive a 9-year-old car to waste will receive €2,500 from the country for a new, environmentally friendly car; and they could also list it. So they are also concerned about the environment during the financial crisis. They are working to promote measures that are taking an environmentally friendly action. So, Mrs. Merklova, what's going on in Slovenia? I am sorry, but the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has in recent years looked more closely at some director of the Employment Office than the President of the Government, as he is looking for employment for various advisors, for various envoys, for various bankers, and that is, of course, a waste of time, energy, and, above all, he is diverting attention from the essential problems we have here in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Does anyone else wish to discuss the third article or amendment to Article 3? I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, this amendment reduces taxes and as we well know, taxes - that is, work and capital are overloaded and now is still an opportunity. See if you could read in today's work Dušan Marble, Dr. Marble, who says, "Fearing that there will be a bare-armed crisis." Of course, he draws attention to those proposals that only the Government proposes. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr Andrej Vizjak is next debated.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u138	Unlike my fellow Member, I am convinced that this amendment, or the reintroduction of investment tax reliefs, is also going towards greater consumption, as companies investing in equipment will also in some way boost consumption. However, there is certainly no way to raise excise duties in consumption. You took it from the budget, from the family budget to the people 200 euros per year, which they will not be able to spend on [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u140	Mr. Visjak, you were an economic minister! Any state revenue may, of course, be based on the budget and the decision of the Government of Consumption and when the Government is aware of its roles in the current situation, of course this consumption is encouraged. Even excise duties! They enable the Government to implement those investment projects that you talk about so much. But at the same time, you say we want to lower taxes. But you know who's gonna be left with the money? He'll be left with money to those companies that need a profit to pay off their liabilities. With this amendment, you're funding those tycoons you want to fight.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 3 and the amendment? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 4 and move on to Article 4a and the amendment. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I also conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 4a. Since it is time or no longer a desire to discuss the amendments, I am closing the debate and thus breaking this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Rudolf Petan. With regard to the proposal for a law, a group of 22 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text at this point of the agenda first to the drafter of the Magi Act. Andre Visiak for further explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In fact, the novelty of the Income Law is relatively simple and usually good solutions are also simple solutions. What do we want to do with it? In particular, we want to simplify the tax environment for those of the smallest, or for those at the beginning, whose annual income does not exceed EUR 100,000. Each company, including the largest group today, started somewhere, Bill Gates in the garage, and also a number of successful family companies, as well as a number of successful entrepreneurs. That is why I think that in this segment of the economy, even in such times of crisis, it is particularly necessary to go against it, to facilitate its business, to reduce its bureaucratic burden and tax burden. I remember those times, by the way, I was also an entrepreneur when the first year there was no tax for a sole entrepreneur or for an entrepreneur who started an activity. Then, a year later, this tax rate was a low issue and then gradually increased, so that, of course, the entrepreneur could "breathe". We are not proposing such a radical solution in this case, but we are proposing important simplifications. The proposal for a law applies to all persons who, as natural persons, i.e. independent entrepreneurs, are engaged in an entrepreneurial activity, but can also carry out an agri-agricultural, professional or other independent activity. Thus, the proposal for a law concerns, in addition to all independent entrepreneurs and farmers, independent journalists, professional athletes, self-employed in culture and so on. In a more favourable situation, all those who, due to the increase in the threshold from €42,000 to €100,000 of income, will be able to opt for a more favourable or tax base from the activity's income on the basis of standardised expenditure. What does that mean? This means that the threshold for so-called flatlists is rising from 42,000 euros to 100,000 euros in revenue, and thus all those who are now somewhere in the middle, i.e. between 42,000 euros in income and 100,000 euros in income, will be able to choose. They will be able to decide that they will be taxed on the basis of a flat rate, but can be taxed on the basis of their actual tax base. With this, of course, the circle of these pilgrims is substantially expanding, but not so much so that, according to our assessment, the matter would not be sustainable. We also walk a little through chronology and how the income line moved through periods. With the Income Act, so called the Marble Act, this border was set at 16,274 euros, then 3.9 million dollars plus the condition that, of course, it does not employ workers. At the time the rate was valid and today it is similar that it was 25%, that is to say 25% admitted, 75% went to its tax base as a natural person. Then it's one. 6. this amount raised to 6 million, 1. 1. 2006, pardon, raised to €6 million to €25,000, leaving 25% for everyone and the conditions for not hiring workers. Income Act 1. 1. 2007, one year later, he introduced 42,000 euros plus that the employer does not employ workers. In doing so, I must say that it has introduced an important novelty of this 2007 law, that for agri-agricultural activity and artistic turnover the rate is 70% and it was only 30% on the basis. And the current proposal is that this limit rises to 100,000 and that the debtor can employ one worker. This is said to be this segment of micro-enterprises, where this material administrative burden is lifted. These are usually people who are not skilled or financial or any other profession, except the basic activities they are engaged in and therefore let them engage in this activity, not tax and otherwise optimize their business.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I give my word to a government representative if he wants. Ma'am mag. Stoner, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. The law before us actually changes the conditions under which a taxable person can account for the tax base in a simplified way. This simplified method simply means that actual revenue and standardised expenditure of 25% are taken into account. Exceptions include certain activities including agriculture and forestry, domestic trade and electricity production under special conditions, and in this case the standard costs are 70%. All others must determine their tax base, if they do not meet these conditions, in a manner of actual costs. The fundamental principle behind the law is that the tax base should be based on actual revenues and on actual costs and simplification should be an exception to the basic rule. Therefore, the law also lays down a simplification for a relatively small circle of debtors, such as those already mentioned by the proposed amendment of the law, which are less skilled in keeping books that have less income and would further burden them with costs and the like. However, the basic principle of the law is that it does not allow for excessive avoidance of payment - accounting and, consequently, the payment of taxes. Allow me to serve you with some numbers that are not of interest to decide whether such a change of law is reasonable and necessary or not. In 2007, 74,879 accounts were submitted for the payment of the income from the activity. The persons who met the conditions for taxation in a simplified manner were 48,600, if I rounded up, in short, about 65% of the taxpayers. Of these, 48,600 chose a simplified way of accounting for only good 9,000 taxpayers or about 18%. This is said not to be in fact an excessive interest for taxpayers to exercise this simplified way and thus gain any greater benefits. This is one of the basic reasons why the Government does not actually support this law's proposal. However, the question which is the subject of today's treatment when it prepares changes to the Income Act, since it has re-examined and, where appropriate, supplemented in a normative part of the Government's work programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, he will present the position of mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Say good-bye again! In opening, let me say that in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we agree with the Government that this is one of the possible measures that will need to be addressed in the future in order to achieve comparability with neighbouring countries, for example, Austria and Italy, where a little more attention has been given to this area. The bill's proposer, Member Rudolf Petan, proposes by means of a proposal for a law to amend the conditions to be met by the taxpayer for income in order to determine the tax base of the activity on the basis of the standardised expenditure. It is proposed to increase the price from the existing €42,000 to €100,000 and to change with regard to employees and to extend the possibility to those who have one employee. The applicant also adds that the aim of the proposal is to relieve the Slovenian economy. If I now refer to the Secretary of State's words, of course, there are only 9,000 of those in Slovenia, which is important during the global financial and economic crisis. Therefore, the proposed law provides for a simplified definition of the tax base for a decision to increase the number of debtors who have business income. The bill is therefore intended to allow a large number of small debtors to maintain a simplified bookkeeping. This will, of course, need to be discussed thoroughly in the future and, as I said in the introduction, achieve a comparable level with neighbouring countries. The Government, on the other hand, points out in its opinion that the method of determining the tax base on the basis of the standardised rather than the actual costs needed to generate revenue in the basic law is included with a view to administrative simplification in the determination of the tax base. However, this extent of determination only makes sense for those with a small volume of business. However, since the measure is intended to simplify the operation and reduce the fixed costs of the debtors, it does not include those who employ other workers. On the other hand, it was pointed out on the spot that the same treatment of all economic operators should also be taken into account in this matter. Unlike entrepreneurs, small companies do not have the possibility of simplifying accounting and thus identifying the tax base in a simplified way. It also draws attention to the advantages and benefits of properly and transparently monitoring the business of independent debtors for third parties entering into a debt-supply relationship with them. Therefore, of course, given the complexity of the definition of the tax base in a simplified way, this is contrary to the proposal of the law. However, it is certainly necessary to undertake to examine and assess the possibilities for broadening the definition of the tax base by taking into account the standardised expenditure or the flat rate in the context of changes in the area of taxation of natural persons' income. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that this proposal is certainly well-intentioned, but the Government is more convincing with its proposals, especially with the thoughts it intends to bring to this National Assembly in a short time. We add that the tax system is complex and a demanding system, so that it does not change in part, in part, and therefore has to be a coherent whole. If we agree to these matters, which are partial, we can wave the sensitive and important system to the very foundations. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we would like to reiterate and point out that the commitment of the Government of Slovenia to examine and assess this year's possibility to extend the definition of the tax base on the basis of the standardised revenues in the context of the changes it is preparing in the area of taxation of the income of natural persons. Therefore, this moment and at this point we do not support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Income Act refers to a proposal for amendments to the conditions to be met by the taxable person in order to determine the tax base of the activity or on the basis of standardised or actual income and expenditure. This is up to the taxpayer himself, but according to his business. The law proposes to increase the price from €42 000 to €100,000 or about €2 and a half. The method of determining the tax base on the basis of standardised rather than actual income and expenditure was incorporated into the law with a view to administrative simplification of the tax forecast. Mrs Kramareva has already reported some data for 2007, and I have data for 2006, when 47 thousand 289 of these were committed and this has benefited only 10 thousand 414 or a good 25%. We can see, however, that there was even a little less of this in 2007, so these reliefs were no longer used, but even less, despite the fact that this was still possible. In fact, this raises the question of the meaning of the proposed solution in the law, which now raises the price by almost two and a half times. The proposer does not explain in any way why this increase is necessary and what it will bring us. The current price has not been fully used or complied with by the taxpayers and they have decided to identify the actual revenue and expenditure and, on the basis of these data, to settle their tax obligations to the country which is the result of their operations. They are likely to find that this is more appropriate for them, including on the basis of the reliefs already envisaged and envisaged. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that a comprehensive approach is needed to systematically address the complexity of the tax base and to simplify tax legislation for both legal and natural persons. The Group of Social Democrats will therefore vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as it does not offer a comprehensive and consistent solution. It is clear, however, that the law has been proposed with a view to politically criticising the Government, how it does nothing, and they themselves are proposing appropriate measures that do not have the right basis - not in its implementation, nor in the effects that could be successful in reducing the effects of the financial crisis in the current crisis. Otherwise, the SDS obviously lacks content to criticise the government if they propose a law that they intend to use to destabilize the economy and at the same time stimulate its growth. This law certainly does not allow this. Promoting investment decisions and investments is not based on deciding how we will be taxed, but requires other measures that are now being implemented and taken by the Government. This is especially possible with the investment incentives already introduced by this Government. As an example, we can use the activity of the Bank's State SID, which has already offered an additional EUR 100 million of funding to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. The SID also offered EUR 100 million for medium-sized, large-scale enterprises, and thus the State Bank is trying to facilitate access to financial resources for Slovenian companies to help them cope with the current financial crisis. Therefore, the SID Bank, as a development incentive bank, will contribute to mitigating the negative effects, the adverse financial situation on the business of Slovenian companies and will promote growth and further development of the Slovenian economy. In setting up further measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis, the SID will seek, in cooperation with the Government and other entities, to prepare further financial products and incentives for the transition from this financial crisis as soon as possible. The perception of the opposition that the government is working too slowly is wrong. The European Central Bank, or the European Central Bank, has already pointed out that certain laws are adopted too quickly. Even those proposed by the previous government. It's even worse if we adopt bad and unconstitutional laws. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will vote in favour of finding that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this proposal for a law that we have tabled in the framework of the Slovenian Democratic Party or Rudolf Petan has the basis of a request for Slovenian craftsmanship, and I am therefore surprised by the SD Group that this law has no basis for any kind of like move. Requesting Slovenian craftsmanship! And you will probably also discuss this in the parliamentary group when you address these really ridiculous claims. That is, if we recognize the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, its expert team and its president, I'm surprised at the position of the SD Group of Members that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u151	Mr. Vizjak, please, Mr. Vizjak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u152	such a proposal without a basis that such a proposal has no positive effect on the economy and is among the requirements of the Slovenian craft. [[...]] I therefore once again represent a very clear basis for this law. This law is based on the requirements of those to whom this law applies. This is Slovenian craft or Slovenian small, micro entrepreneurship. The requests are written, elucidated, sent to all parliamentary groups, and I believe that they are also orally reasoned to speakers who have no idea about this. However, of course, this is a political ring and arguments and written claims and the opinion of the economy here obviously is of no value to some, and even less meaningful, to take this into account. The government opposes and I see that this as a parrot is summed up by others to refer to a marginal circle of entrepreneurs, craftsmen. I think it's very important at what stage such a hand is offered to them. For many, this deadline is very important in the first year, or in the beginning, when an entrepreneur is born, when he is born, and does not have to conduct some bureaucratic tasks in all of this, especially if it is taxable for him. And for what activity is this tax advantageous? Surely this is not tax-effective for such activities where something is bought, it has some small value additions and is sold forward and, of course, the entry costs are high, the output costs are high, and there is little to be earned. Yes, it's probably just a simple calculation; revenue, expenditure, something small in this, and God help, even if it's a micro-entrepreneur. It's not for that. Of course not. This is why most, unfortunately, entrepreneurs do not use it in the Republic of Slovenia. However, 10,000 people use this or 10,000 in 2006 or 2007 or I don't know when 9,000. This has also been said for these 9,000 clearly this measure has been a good one. And if we extended it to a higher threshold, there wouldn't be 10,000 of them, there'd probably be 20 or 30,000 -- I don't know. It would cover a larger circle of these 74,000 all who account for the withdrawal of income from the activity and would not be the basis that meets the conditions, 48.600, as was said, would probably be this base 70,000 or 60,000 - I don't know - and probably the percentage of those who would use it would be larger. This is probably relatively small, but not too small because the rate is 25%. If the rate were different, higher, 40%, there would probably be more. But no. We didn't propose that. We have proposed a measure that not only goes in the direction of the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This measure is also in the direction of an act for small enterprises, which is a basic document of the European Union to help small and medium-sized enterprises. Additional tax relief and not just relief, simplification for small businesses! It's not going to work out for all of us, but for some. But I think we must also take such measures in this Parliament that help 10,000 independent entrepreneurs or others who carry out this independent activity in the Republic of Slovenia. For me, the number 10,000 in Slovenia is not a small number, there is no marginal number to reject this law if it is unnecessary. It's not! If 10,000 is a small number for you - okay! That's what I saw, that's what you said in public. And what does it matter? This law aims at those who, in the framework of their activities, place a lot of added value and have little cost. In particular, this means, say, a domestic art trade where, in fact, little material makes a product that can be very valuable. It is said that a lot of knowledge, skills, craftsmanship and the like is incorporated into the product. And these people, for the first time, are administratively burdened and have a favourable tax treatment. I think that this also rewards knowledge, and not least the integrated added value, which is not only knowledge, it can also be a natural gift, someone can design nicely and therefore its product can only be significantly more valuable because of these forms of additions than that material, and also 25% of its expenditure means more to its income than it actually does to its material costs, and so this flattens. So I have not heard here today the compelling reasons why this novel law is not acceptable. But I've heard a lot of untruths that don't have to be and that it doesn't have to be based. And that hurts because that's not true. First, it has a basis, it has in the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, it is written as a requirement; and secondly, it has a basis in European documents designed to encourage small, micro-enterprises, because it wants to be administratively burdened by small entrepreneurship, so that small entrepreneurship and craftsmanship will actually become a generator in times like those in Slovenia now, that is, when we also face a shortage of work in some large systems, where this work was already huge six months ago. And it also helps the beginners, those who start in the first year when they have little income and can choose, because they fall below this price of 100,000 euros, this way. In fact, I expected that the basic intention would be to help this segment of the economy, to move forward, to also think about raising the rate, say, from 25% to 40%, and that there would be more of these flatlists in this area. However, I see that this is also a small step, but an important step - I agree that this is only one of the measures that are part of a broader set, so we have also proposed more, and that is why this is one of these. Today's meeting is also a typical example: The government proposes one point, opposition three. And this also shows the extent of the concern and the material to solve the problems that we have and between us. And surely, certainly, we will, with such rejections as have been brought to you for the third time today, in the form of your economic results. I wish, Sir, that, in your mandate, we would have the economic results of the previous term. I want to! That's what I'm saying because we're all going to have something out of it, especially our people. However, in this way, if you do not support a single measure, which would improve, simplify the business environment that would help small and medium-sized enterprises, it is difficult to expect something from itself to go better. It will not go any better, it will go much lower on its own and you will have to empty the cash register even more through social measures. However, we want not to empty the register through social measures, but to help, to burden the economy, to make it work, to hire, and not least to care for public treasury. If this measure is so marginal, even though it is tanning, say, 10,000 economic operators in the Republic of Slovenia, then support it. And at least symbolically, if not otherwise, show some willingness to resolve situations. But I'm afraid there really is some kind of political machine that goes as a roller for good suggestions and rejects them without justification.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak only partially heeded my warning. And I'm asking you nicely if you do this to someone else. The presentation of views is not intended to be an issue from the views of other parliamentary groups. This will be an opportunity when we have a general debate. Please, if you'll hold on to this. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor to present the views of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. The basic purpose of the proposed amendments to the Income Act is to simplify the way in which the tax base for taxation is determined on the basis of standardised expenditure, while at the same time changing the price from 42,000 euros to 100,000 euros for entry into a simplified way of determining the tax base. This proposal is not based on any new knowledge or new situation that would require it and could be implemented in the past. However, the existing Income Act lays down three conditions for calculating the tax base on the basis of standardised costs. Firstly, there is no possibility of keeping business books and records, secondly that the revenues from activities in the last 12 months do not exceed 42,000 euros, and thirdly that the debtor does not employ workers. In addition, it specifically lays down comparable conditions for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. The fundamental regulation in the law in force is based on the actual determination of profit or tax base, which is, of course, logical and only correct. Administrative simplification in the determination of the tax base makes sense only for those with a small volume of business. The available data, which have already been discussed today, show a relatively low interest of beneficiaries in determining the tax base on the basis of standardised costs. In the past, this has moved around one fifth of the debtors who have opted for this option. Of course, the proposed measure cannot cover those who would otherwise like to use the standard costs for the calculation of the tax base, but who employ workers and are therefore obliged to keep specific records. In determining the conditions for simplifying the determination of the tax base, it is also necessary to take care of the same treatment of all entities, both independent entrepreneurs and small companies, which are prevented from managing simplified accounting and thereby simplifying the determination of the tax base. It is also necessary to take into account the importance and benefits of correct and transparent monitoring of the business of taxpayers for tax purposes and for third parties themselves, as has already been said today. Of course, it is also necessary to recognise the link between the income threshold and the income threshold for agricultural and forestry undertakings. In any event, it is a complex activity requiring a broader assessment and without a broader assessment of the consequences of the bill cannot be supported at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The positions of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u156	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The position of the Desus Group until the novelty and adoption of the Income Act is negative. We have no doubt that the proposaler is following the objective of introducing, through amendments to the Income Act, as much as possible, elements to mitigate the negative consequences of the crisis, but we believe that introducing changes to this law in segments can contribute to the impact of these changes somehow having a negative impact on the overall global view and on the global impact of the whole legislation. The proposed amendments relate to the determination of the tax base of income from activities. The general rule for certain tax bases is that the tax base for the income tax on income derived from the management of the activity, the profit found as the difference between income and expenditure arising from the management of the activity during the tax year. Revenue and expenditure shall in principle be determined on the basis of the Income Act, unless the Income Act provides otherwise for specific situations of a natural person carrying out an activity. However, certain criteria allow the law for private individuals to decide on a different, so-called simplified way of determining the tax base, which constitutes a derogation from the basis of the rule. In the event that the tax base is determined by taking into account the actual revenue of the private during the tax period, which reduces the flat-rate costs. It is the debtors who have to meet tax-specific conditions: the first is that they are not obliged to keep business books and records under other rules and do not actually keep them. Secondly, that their revenues from activities in the last 12 months do not exceed EUR 20 000 and for the third time that they do not employ workers, that is to say that they do the work in person. The same right is recognised by the law for those who have begun to operate the activity in a new way, even though it is not possible for such an undertaking to bring into force all the conditions provided for by the law. A taxable person who has started an activity may also be appointed to determine the tax base in a simplified manner for the first tax year. So when his results show up. If the taxable person decides to simplify the way in which the tax base is determined, the taxable person shall be recognised as having a regulatory cost of 25% of the revenue generated. However, for individual categories of taxpayers, the law provides for higher regulatory costs, namely 70% for the debtor who achieves income for the production or sale of domestic and art trade products, and for those who achieve incomes by carrying out agricultural, forestry or supplementary activities on farm. Thus, the proposal raises the threshold for taking into account normative expenditure, from €42,000 to €100,000 from activities over the last 12 months and extends the range of beneficiaries from a simplified way of determining the taxable base for those who employ one worker. The Group of Members, Members of the DeSUS, are not exactly in favour of such a solution, because we believe that the current scope of the application of the tax base, thus giving the possibility of a simplified method of identification, is appropriate and meaningful for those with a low level of business. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we want this amendment and this amendment to be introduced into the law, but we expect the Government to submit amendments to the whole law in a very short time, and we will be confident that even if the amendment is incorporated meaningfully into the whole legislation, this amendment will also be supported. So, today, right now, and now we can't support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u158	Once again, thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! What do you say to the third one as well as what we've said? In the face of the foretold recession and the forecast, which has not yet been felt, the economic crisis, all attempts have been good and will be. And the only thing I can say again is that only in the field of tax policy can we fully help both capital and work. These are the experiments. Today it's a third attempt. The possibility is to raise the revenue line from taxpayers from 42,000 to 100,000. I don't understand why they would lock up and not give you a chance, even if there's the other 9 or 10,000 who'll take advantage of it. Even if one no longer wants to take advantage of it, even if there are fewer. There is an opportunity and I am sorry that this law does not provide for the past, that is, what we have already heard about today. For someone who starts, first without tax, then the average to a certain degree. That would be the fairest thing. Why aren't we using this? Why is it now only 9 or 10,000 who take advantage of the opportunity given, that is, up to 42,000? Because at least 40% of them work in black. They do, and no one knows or pays any taxes. They work in garages, they work in private, they work black for those who get social money. That's why it's like that, so there's only 10,000 of them, whether you believe it or not. I believe and I know. We will support this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Because there's another way to try to help. And finally, I'm surprised at the first time we spoke, I'm just giving a comparison, and no one mentioned what the Law-Legal Service said. In the Act on short-term subsidies, she warned that there are no legal penalties and that this law, which we will probably all say "yes" slightly today, will allow for a number of frauds and criminal offences. That's what it says. Look at you. Not one of them says a word! Here we are looking for every fig and every possibility that is really unnecessary. I don't know, we know we have to help, but all we're trying to do is refuse? I don't know if it's good. However, I expect that all that is proposed on the other hand, in this case government, will come new and better and that at least then - only if it is not too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am no longer surprised that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes this bill. Apparently, the government's promises to support the coalition's proposals for opposition laws, which will be useful for the Slovenian state and Slovenian citizens, are obviously not good. It is a simple addition and amendment of the Income Act, which would facilitate the operation of those debtors who wish to apply the option of taking into account standardised expenditure under other conditions. It is clear from the Government’s point of view that this option is used by only one fifth of the potential debtors. The counter-argument of equal treatment of all economic operators does not seem convincing to us at this point in time and context. However, if the main argument of the coalition to reject the bill is the non-conformity of the proposed solution by regulating the situation of the debtors carrying out basic agricultural and forestry activities and complementary activities on the farm, we call on the coalition to complement the proposed law jointly through the amendment in order to harmonise this solution. In the SLS Group, we will support the proposed bill as suitable for further consideration in the framework of the National Assembly procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the basis of the applications we have made for the meeting. The first one has the word, Mr. Willy Rezman. No, no, no. Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The bill refers to everything, in particular small businesses and in this context it is also one of the forms of aid that can deliver immediate effects - of course, if we adopt this law. Looks like we won't. Slovenian companies and incentives, someone has discussed this - I would like to say something that is not the only incentive for credit for business development. We should have done much earlier in the Republic of Slovenia if we want to have a healthy small economy, which we know is a condition for the creation of large and medium-sized enterprises. And how does the state deal with those who each year cast down tax crops, which are also fertilized and sowed each year? From here comes what we put in the state vault. Very stepmotherly, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! The country is the biggest debtor to those who have to be repaid; it is usually also a challenge in court; it must wait years and years; we have legal judgments when the state does not want to hear about them. The country wants to collect its tax immediately from the producers, really immediately, but it has absolutely no interest in whether the one who did something will get paid as well. And the state collects very high interest on unpaid payments and arranges for the repayment of its debt by blocking the account on numerous occasions just because they are not paid copyright due to the fact that someone had a radio turned on at the plant; such matters are also happening. As has already been said, this help will be rejected today. The proposal for this law seems reasonable to me, and if until recently we have argued that those who help quickly to do twice should be given a good thought today. I am convinced that the State could introduce a financial discipline to ensure that what is overpaid is also returned, and we have also witnessed today that it will probably not be accepted - that even for what is overpaid to the State by small or large enterprises, the State will continue to take the right to pay when it thinks that this overpayment must be repaid. And if we continue to do so, then this tax field will be increasingly dwindled, because these plows, the sowers, will be increasingly smaller and we will probably also look more and more at where to get the money to patch up the hole that will be generated in the budgets for the coming years. It is not right for us to treat those who want the good of this country so macholy. Anyone who has the will to work should be helped. And as my predecessor earlier said, Mr Bogdan Barovic, there are too many businesses that do this in black, including independent entrepreneurs, because they have simply found that they are not worth doing legally, because the first thing the country sends them before they open anything is an account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I must say, I am very happy to be in these few busy days when I have heard so many words of craftsmanship, craftsmanship, craftsmanship, craftsmanship, and I am proud of it. I am pleased that our requirements of the Slovenian trade as well as our newspapers are read very well. But I am even more pleased that most of our demands have been being met in recent times. And I am pleased to see that they are being realized as we propose, and that they are being realized by actually having effects, but not by some self-indulgent ad hoc changes, for which we then find that they do not bring what we want and, finally, we need craftsmen and entrepreneurs. That is why I am also pleased that we have also accepted the reliefs today, in addition to those that we are the last to save most of our small businesses, for which they were also intended. And if I go to what has been said before and that the proposal that we have today on the table, at least, nicely said, is flawed, then I can say that I agree with the fact that this proposal needs to be truly adopted, but it needs to be coordinated first, and this is already happening both with the Ministry of Finance and with our professional services. It is true that this proposal has been and has been read in our demands. We wanted a promotion, just as we wanted before. And even when we applied higher standard costs for domestic and artistic trade, because they were abolished and reduced, we found that we were doing the right thing, that we were right and that we increased the number of those who are also eating and living their family. Why do we already have in this amount of €42,000 only 9,000 who benefit from it? Because we have too low standard costs and because it is worth more to some people to apply and keep records in a different way, and here is this weakness that we want to address because the problem of standard costs needs to be solved. If we want to help and increase the number of those who choose to do so, which we also, of course, support and propose, including those who have one employee, not only those who have none, then we really need some analysis, which is that censorship and that percentage of costs, the standard ones that will encourage these people and those entrepreneurs to make that decision. We are confident that this will remove bureaucratic obstacles when we do; we are confident that we are also reducing the grey economy. Because it is likely that if the way is simplified and control is also different for those who work in black, they will register in this way. Of course, I am sure that in a short time we will be able to really prepare such a proposal for this law and this amendment, that it will be enjoyable and that it will also bear fruit and that in time we will be able to say that we do not have only 9,000, but that we have quite a few who have decided to do so. We have fifty thousand entities up to 100,000 euros in revenue, and these have an average of 70% of the expenditure, and here is the obstacle that we have only nine thousand of those who have opted for this measure, which is now that we have achieved it after twice the change or I don't know how many times high it would really allow more to make a decision about it. And I have to say again: thank you for knowing that the small economy is the one that has driven development and the engine, and the one that has created new jobs, and the one that has overcome and transition, and will also be the crisis that will be on its shoulders, even though it is not responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u166	It is bad or wrong for the opposition to do what the Government should do. Even worse, or something is wrong with the country, where the government does not support those measures proposed by the opposition and are good in the interests of the state and citizens. And that is what we are witnessing today throughout this entire session, with the exception of the law proposed by the Government that stimulates the work; instead of being confronted with such measures as we have heard they have been adopted, let's say, in Germany where they stimulate work. This law, which we have on the table today and on which the general debate is open, means that if you do not vote on it, that it is not suitable for further consideration, that it will be discussed and that it is possible to add to it all that you say now does not contain, is one of those laws which would allow the Government to take the measures to be taken in this law, in the Income Act, to be adopted more quickly. For the procedure is open, the general debate would be concluded today and the law could be granted next month. I guess that's not gonna happen. I am pleased to be the speaker for the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and Members of Mr Klun, because we all receive this Chamber of Commerce, this is the bulletin of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. When I read his statements here, and when I listen and follow his decisions in the National Assembly, these things don't match. Now I don't know what the real point of view is: Is there a real position when it comes to some thematic conference at the Chamber of Commerce that talked about the impact of the economic and financial crisis on the small economy and the measures that were taken by some famous pierar of the President of the Government, or is what it says here really what the decisions we make in the National Assembly are? It says here: Two of the three basic requirements of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have been met. Here. Both were placed in the procedure by the previous government. It says here that the craftsmen have expressed dissatisfaction with the Government's decision to withdraw from the process the amendment of the Law on Tax from the income of legal persons, which would also make it easier for companies to do so, in the view of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, it is not acceptable because it places comparable micro and small economic entities in an unequal position. That says black on white. And you will reject this at the previous point, when we vote on it, because you rejected the same thing on the committee yesterday - to equalise these entities. To equalize it with legal entities. These are the requirements of the Slovenian craft and with these requirements you say you agree. When decisions have to be made to go this way, however, this courage runs out. And be careful, not because of some public financial effects, but because you say that these measures are not necessary. Point 1 - since this is a law on income and this is a whole, it is a broader issue, not just what we are talking about in particular - about reducing the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT. Yesterday the situation was even more absurd. First, ladies and gentlemen, you agreed for two hours that this should be done, then you went out for a 15-minute consultation and found that your position, which you had two hours earlier, was no longer correct and that this should not be supported, but that the Government should wait for it to propose the same in the context of the budget rebalancing. I don't know if I'm unreasonable or who's being unreasonable here. It is something similar that we will receive in a few months, when it is very late for many, the same thing we are doing now with many of these measures. Let's see how things went back. What actually happened in these few months, four, five, after September 21st, after you say the public finances are now yours. They're not yours, you've taken a little more responsibility than we have for them. What happened to a specific one of these measures that are here and are on their way and are working? [[...]] Four laws were proposed by the previous government, two of you let them through and we accepted them, two of them stayed in the lager. With corrections, we accept some of this today. It's three, four months later, almost too late and still ineffective. He was removed from the 1st. 1. 2009 salary tax. Thank God it was adopted in 2006 with a phase-out to 1. 1. 2009 The possibility was given to those who were socially weaker not to pay voluntary health insurance services, a number of public assurances were given what would be done, and significantly higher excise duties began to take effect - the government's measure. That's all we have on the table until today. And when we talk about all these measures that we have proposed following the proposals and the demands of those to whom they relate, it is necessary to say that the one we have in this Income Act is also one of them. The craftsmen say an increase in the tax base limit by taking into account standardised expenditure. If technically what is proposed is not enough, there is no problem. Support the progress of the law, we will support all your proposals and amendments that will complete this provision. No problem. However, if you vote today to stop this law, what you will do because you have announced it, it means that this measure or option will be put in place for some time. The government, or the Ministry of Finance, says that there will be no impact of this measure, of the current fifty-five thousand, only 20%, or nine thousand, benefit. Even if only a hundred of them would benefit, even if only 300 jobs remain from this title, which will not be lost, the aim is achieved. Even if there were only fifty left, the goal has been achieved. So please, not with such arguments, because these arguments are not. I suggest that after a break, you consider how you will vote, and do not stop what has been proposed well-intentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot has already been said by colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. It is absolutely necessary to think about simplification in a small economy. Especially with the craftsmen who will start the operation. This also eliminates the grey economy. We must not be rigid in opening up and supporting a small economy. The small economy also employs people who are on the market and who are also left without income in agriculture. Especially in the water protection areas that the country has turned its back on. Small and medium-sized enterprises are part of an over-needed small economy in small municipalities that fills unemployment and is also an indispensable source of income for municipalities and various societies operating in this area. That's why I'm going to support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u170	Good evening, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. After five hours of the meeting, at which we gathered to try to identify and take steps to make sure that the whole country, what we did smartly, has little bitter taste and a little sadness. I appreciate that we are really going to take this government measure, which I welcome, and I think it is right to subsidise and maintain these jobs. I would ask once again for this mistake, 230 million, 500 euros, for 460,000 people, I think you have overestimated and that we have not spent so much public money in this year's budget or we will not, as envisaged. In the case of value added tax, we have been very hard, rigorous and have estimated that even in this difficult time, we will not release this much needed liquidity money for companies earlier than in the sixties. In investment reliefs, I think we have been very cheap and we simply do not believe that there are good companies in Slovenia, companies that would invest in such difficult times. We have also proposed this measure several times in the People's Party so that this rate could even be accelerated this year in order to encourage consumption by investments as well. We were not generous in our research and development. We are now coming to the Income Act, where we have found that the proposal that has been made is only going in this direction, so that as many of those individuals decide not to red tape, but to run their company as easily as possible. We find that there are as many as 9,000 such companies so far. I think it's very big that it's not small. In this case, too, I have a feeling that someone has decided to oppose this because someone has proposed it and has not come from the right types of proposal. I am afraid that the path we see today in the National Assembly is a poor road map for dealing with the difficult situation, as well as the talks we have been given so far, have gone in a different direction. I myself wanted to act as a constructive opposition in the Slovenian People's Party, and I will also work, but I understand this matter in a slightly different way. I come from an environment that has gone into a larger economic crisis in the mid-1990s than Slovenia will come today. This is what I hope to say, because our entire economy collapsed and here they fell as dominoes of companies with 1,000 to 2,000 people, as well as those with 800 and more. At a time when we were all at a time of apathy, in 1998, I myself took up a mandate, and what was then adorned us in some way, that is what I find today is that we were brave and that we all hoped together at that time to believe that we were able to do something from that environment. We went into very fundamental measures: from the low cost of building land to the low tax for the loss of building land, what the congregation can arrange, we invested in higher education, in two colleges operating today. I can say that today, when we look at the map in Slovenia, the environment where businesses are falling and where unemployment is threatening, our environment is not yet on this map, because these proactive measures have also led to a transformation of the economy, which is now based on small, medium-sized enterprises and has responded well to these problems. I'm not saying companies won't get in trouble. But I am sure once again that such a disaster cannot be as it has been in the past. And what was the significance of that time? That was some optimism. I am very disappointed when only one pessimism and even sometimes banal ways to save money in Slovenia from those tops of politics, rather than trying to find bright spots and even with a touch of optimism to encourage people to step back together and overcome this crisis and there are also opportunities in this crisis. I think that among these proposals that have been tabled today are some of them that would be very valuable to consider, or there is no opportunity in any of these proposals. Unfortunately, I fear they will be unvoted as in the current tape. And there was something that was significant in our environment at that time. Until then, we were counting and looking for who was whose. Since 1998, there has been no political coalition in the congregation of Krško, but all parties have tried to talk about what is good for the congregation. I think now is the time when something similar should be done in Slovenia, but I fear that such a meeting, such as today's, is a bad way to go about it. And if you have an option where you don't have to count anything at all, decide on the last law to accept it, show goodwill in this work, and create some conditions for normal work in the future. I think it'll be really cheap to show goodwill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, everyone! The new Income Act could be one of the stones in the mosaic of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis, which I believe was also the intention of the proposer. And as mag said in the introduction. Vizjak, this is also a requirement of Slovenian craftsmanship. The proposed solution aims to relieve the Slovenian economy, especially in this case a small economy, which is very important in its flexibility and adaptability to the current market situation, which is also the most vulnerable and sensitive. The solution to the proposed law is, as it is said, an increase in the taxable person's income from the current EUR 42,000 to EUR 100,000 in order to take into account the standardised costs or standardised expenditure when determining the tax base of the following year. In addition, it provides an opportunity to take into account standardised expenditure also to those taxable persons who employ one worker. This, of course, does not mean that, if the debtor so wishes, he may also decide to determine the income by keeping the accounts and the actual costs, which is, of course, a matter of calculating what is worth more. I believe that at least two could be achieved by implementing the new law. First of all, in times of financial and economic crisis, we would encourage people to choose entrepreneurship at all. Second, small entrepreneurs would be encouraged to grow and develop, which is primarily the responsibility of the State to ensure adequate conditions. In addition, this novelty would encourage independent entrepreneurs to employ new workers, which is particularly important during the global financial and economic crisis that threatens mass forgiveness. While independent entrepreneurs would have no direct savings by raising the income line, it will be significantly saved in the administration of both independent entrepreneurs and the country, and this would simplify the implementation of income legislation. In short, with little cost, we would have achieved great added value, so I appeal to all of you to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have listened carefully to the debate so far, and I am a little disappointed, because I continue to feel that there is still such a good proposal that the Government says that this is a partial way of solving the problem and that it is planning to solve the whole, but this is an urgent problem that is focused primarily on a small economy, it is referred to as craftsmen, small companies. And I will be very disappointed if the well-intentioned proposal of the opposition is not accepted, because once again we show our face, division to the left and right, as if we are not interested in what is good for Slovenia, for Slovenia, for our small craftsmen, for small companies. Let us certainly be aware, as my predecessor from the party said: "He who helps immediately, helps twice." And let's forget about whether it came from the opposition species or the coalition species. If the proposal is a good one, it must also be accepted reasonably. Let's be aware of one more fact. Small companies are an important factor in the stability of the Slovenian economy. Take a look around Europe, and look at us now. Does the country have problems with small craftsmen, small businesses? They're on their own. They'll find their way. They do not present an acute problem with the Slovenian economy. Who's the problem? The problem is mega companies, large companies, where they own even the country where such anomalies are made. And now, in the end, only the workers pay the debt. No managers will suffer from this crisis, no supervisors. That's what we need to be aware of. That is why I appeal to everyone here to support such a good proposal, so is help to the small economy. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Thank you. He's canceling the debate. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u176	Hello again, especially Mr. Minister, who is here! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am listening to this debate, I am thinking about whether there are actually elected Members and Members here we really do not want to support craft and entrepreneurship, as has been said several times today. I am thinking about whether this is really a statement once as a representative of the Chamber of Commerce or President, twice as a Member and every time in a different direction. I don't think so. However, each of us can interpret each of us in his own way, perhaps even at times more appropriate than ever. When I hear about the promotion of craft and entrepreneurship, whether we decide about entrepreneurship, whether we can assess promotion or also promote growth and development, innovation, I think there is no doubt about it. There is no one here between us who would not want to promote craft and entrepreneurship. However, I also believe that there probably was not enough time in the drafting of legislation or in the proposal of our fellow Member to have the whole matter processed, considered and looked at in a number of ways. Today in this debate, both coalition fellow Members and opposition colleagues felt this. You have also made this clear to some of the opposition's respected colleagues, who are close to crafts and entrepreneurship, and in some sentences you have made this clear. And let me tell you, I just met with the white landscape economists on Monday, Metlika, where I am the mayor. One of the economists of a large company told me this or to us: "We are all responsible for the crisis, many things are wrong, but Europe has opened up too much to imports from the east. We really don't have to import all the nonsense from the east as long as it is, it's going to be a crisis." And one of the economists also said to me, "No one will bring us out of the crisis except each other. It is necessary to have an open head, a clear mind and go your own way." At this point, I was also criticized when a fellow Member mentioned the debate at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance, when he mentioned ladies and gentlemen, I was the only lady on the board. In our own debate on value added tax, we have made our views clear, and I am still behind it today. However, the explanation of the Minister and the Ministry's professional co-workers was very clear, he said that before the budget rebalancing, it would be unwise to adopt such measures, because we are the ones who decide what will happen to the money, the public money of all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I think it is more sensible for us all to think carefully together, not to insult each other or possibly to read each other, because I believe that we are going together in this Chamber and that we all want further development and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Who's got the replica? Mr. Blackach. You weren't mentioned. Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think we know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure if the Member's statement has been misinterpreted or misunderstood and we know who it refers to. I don't know what I've offended Mrs. Brunskole with. Maybe by figuring out what was going on at the board meeting yesterday. If this is an insult, see, such insults, then there will be a great deal of respect for the gentleman, because there will be many such findings. But if you're afraid of your actions, then don't do that, then don't do what you did yesterday, when you've been discussing for two hours that you support this deadline for the VAT return, not for seven, but for 30 days, and then after a 15-minute break -- these are the facts, Mrs Brunskole, I quote the facts -- you come back and vote against it. With regard to the statement made by the President of the Chamber of Commerce, which I heard was misinterpreted, as you were saying, I will read it from the Chamber of Commerce. Miroslav Klun, President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia: "In the Chamber, we insist that all micro and small enterprises are equal in terms of investment facilities and that they apply to both independent entrepreneurs and legal persons." [[End of quote.]] What did I misinterpret? Nothing at all. All I've said is that something is being said in the capacity of the President of the Chamber of Commerce, and there are other decisions that we are making here. And Mrs Klun said yesterday explicitly that he did not agree that for companies this is being facilitated in the same way as reliefs for independent entrepreneurs, because this would not be good because they have different levels of taxation. These are the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I would advise you to look at the rules of procedure, because it is possible that you have been misunderstood because you have interpreted what the reasons are, why someone has done so and you do not know them. Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u180	Hello, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with the co-workers and the entire team! We have decided to amend the Income Act from this point of view, because we believe and believe that it is right for the State to start collecting from all craftsmen, including those who do not actually pay taxes. That is why we have decided to make this change. What specific solutions or benefits does the law proposed by the SDS bring? The main solution to the bill is to raise the revenue limits of the taxpayers of individual entrepreneurs from carrying out activities from €42,000 to €100,000 in order to require and take into account the standardised expenditure when determining the tax base for the payment of the income tax of the following tax year. How much will a self-sustaining entrepreneur be able to save? Independent entrepreneurs who have so far had up to 42,000 euros in income and have applied for the consideration of standardised expenditure, added revenue, if adopted, will not have the law, but will increase the number of independent entrepreneurs to all those who have up to 100,000 euros of annual income that will be able to require the identification of a tax base by taking into account the nominal expenditure. These nominees are recognised in the law at 25%, while those engaged in domestic or art trade and agriculture at 70%. The basis for the income, for the calculation, is also shown. Of course, savings only apply to those independent entrepreneurs who manage such activities that their costs or expenses do not exceed 25% of their revenues. If their expenditure is higher, it is worth more to them to account for actual costs. However, if everyone were to raise the percentage of the nominated expenditure that they may impose, we would have raised it for domestic and artistic trade and agriculture in the previous term, so that more S.P.s, independent entrepreneurs could determine the tax base for income. The increase in nominal expenditure is not foreseen by our proposal for a law. It must be said that independent entrepreneurs who, if adopted, will also be saved in accounting and other administrative services for the implementation of the nominated expenditure will be saved. From this point of view, we believe it would be wise to adopt this law, which we have proposed. This would allow the country to collect more taxes, more taxes from independent entrepreneurs or black workers. There's a lot of money out there. That's why it's our decision to change this law. I hope and I believe that you will decide and vote in favour of the changes we have made, that the country will imagine that so many and so many thousands or millions of euros can raise more money than it has so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Cloone asked for a replica. If you can, Mr Cloone, limit yourself to the part where you are sure or think that Mr Cernač misinterpreted or understood your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. It is precisely because I would ask Mr. Chernač to read and then read to the end and write there, if I continue: "We are also discussing this intensively with the Finance Minister Dr. Franceto Križanič...", that is, after the meeting, when amendments to the Income Tax Act were adopted, and because we were then saying that we will consider at the next meeting what we are dealing with today and have been said so "who assured us that the Ministry is already preparing a proposal for the following measures that might be necessary to remedy the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. [[...]] Under these measures, they will also explore the possibility of equalising companies with limited liability with independent entrepreneurs as regards investment tax reliefs. In the Chamber at this time, we are developing criteria for the enforcement of these facilities, so that they will indeed reach those they need, not that some companies will exploit them for wrong purposes, as it was before and without great..." And also, if I may say so, it was explained on the committee that, in terms of s.p. and other companies and taxes and status have been made clear that according to our calculations both laws and both proposals, including the one that was today, are approximately equivalent to this segment of the small economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackych procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to warn you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure because my replica of Mrs Brunskole and the replica of the copy of the Rules of Procedure are missing. However, I am grateful to Mr Clooney that he has read his statement to the end, because I would not have succeeded in the three minutes available to me in the context of the replica. But this does not preclude that first part of the statement that the Chamber requires equal treatment of independent entrepreneurs and legal persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u185	Mr. Blackach. I gave Mr. Clown my word because it wasn't a replica to the replica, it was a replica to your debate. Now you have just pointed out the Rules of Procedure, but you have abused it because you have replicated his statements. I think that nothing has happened and that we can go forward with the debate. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u186	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with his team! I am pleased that today we are considering a whole set of laws to enable our economy to survive in these times of crisis, because this financial crisis of mistrust between banks has resulted in almost a halt to interbank lending, which, of course, also means that credit cuts or even ceases to be able to power the real sector and thus significantly deteriorate the conditions for the economy and, among other things, for entrepreneurs. And this law of ours would contribute to solving this situation, because entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship are certainly one of the major pillars of the larger economy. And this economy is actually linked to international economic flows. Therefore, we all agree that this situation requires swift and thoughtful action. And we have already taken quite a few measures in the National Assembly before the new year, which were important, but they have not all been well received and are not effective. The guarantee for deposits, for natural persons, was a very good measure and meant a mitigation of some panic that could arise on the banking market. However, the credits that the economy is expected to receive to relaunch a cycle of investment and economic development are failing. A lot of businesses are also talking to us, and they point out that loans are getting worse, that interest rates and similar things are rising, which the European Union Directive clearly indicates somewhere that this should not be the case. Credits are also not granted, but credit ratings have been disregarded by certain companies for years. So that certain measures we're talking about didn't fall to fertile ground. I am very disappointed that the proposals that have been well-intentioned on our part do not actually work. We will probably adopt the first law, which speaks of partial full-time subsidisation. Remember, there are different opinions on this marriage in the profession. We are reading this today both in Finance and in Del, and remember that this law is dissatisfied with both trade unions and employers. So I don't know what we're gonna put out. The aim of this proposed law is, like all of these other burdens of a certain part of the economy. We cannot say here that there is a number here that is negligible, as mentioned several times in the debates. I also think that this additional initiative, which would talk about making it easier for an additional employee, is not negligible in this case. This reduction in the costs of entrepreneurs is absolutely acceptable and I am very surprised that, in the previous term, we have met many times with entrepreneurs that the position of the Chamber of Commerce is now somehow negative. In principle, it speaks of this law being appropriate, but when it is appropriate, we will ask ourselves when it is too late. Since you have all mixed up with some people from Slovenia, I would say, cultural history, one proverb says: "Whoever quickly does, twice does. So we will not later wonder why certain measures are not appropriate at a given time and, otherwise, why should we not stop this relief if you feel that it is not appropriate to discuss them. Remember, colleagues, that we are talking about first reading and that this is a law that can be supplemented at the next stage, if you think it is appropriate. Another piece of information that's very interesting. Eurostat notes that in November, economic growth in Slovenia virtually fell by 12 percentage points. That's today's information you have online. At that time, it fell by 1.6% in the European Union. This is a very disturbing information. This means that certain measures have not been taken as you explain. Finally, the rise in these general reliefs and measures, which could be implemented through this law, indirectly reduces some bureaucratic costs for both entrepreneurs and, last but not least, for the tax administration. I would suggest that, given that the first is the case and that most or most of the colleagues think that the Government will draw up a similar law, that we can only decide and support this first hearing and thus give the opportunity to incorporate this law and that it really works at the right time, not after it is too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. France Tsukati. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u188	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm an optimist. All the laws adopted should be taken into account and monitored daily - I expect from the Government - which companies apply for measures, how these measures are taken and applied, or whether measures have a positive impact on the crisis resolution of those using these measures, if necessary, to prepare new receptions if these measures in companies do not produce the expected results. Of course, much depends on the implementation of measures and the injection of banking into practice, into everyday life and work. We have to be optimistic. We go to solutions, we have good predispositions, and the proceeds are valid. Now I'm sure there's no time or place for people or governments that show pessimistic attitude. Even in companies that need to be touched, it is not the time for philosophical debates, but it is necessary to focus on people and listen to them, especially those who have long-standing practice in the management or management of renovated companies. In these people, we are looking for solutions, in the midst of greed and optimism. All measures must be put in place, not waiting or taking the easiest route, and this is the forgiveness of workers. In Slovenia, I am sure that we have many great companies that know how to deal with crisis situations and can be a model for a large number of those in crisis. They can harvest their own species when necessary. Despite the well-intention of all the debaters in this House, we probably have not proved this today. Maybe next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! What we have not shown and what I will show will be visible after the vote. The Slovenian opposition has shown concern for the Slovenian economy and has also drawn up three laws, amendments to laws that could help with the situation in which we are or in which we are going. Whether the Slovenian coalition, the government, will follow it, and of course we will see. While I agree that it is probably necessary to make one package in the context of the 2009 budget rebalancing. However, all that we have proposed today, and this fourth point in particular - the Income Act, where we propose a higher rate of non-taxation, i.e. from 42 to 100,000 euros, and if we give it a very light, is actually a positive signal, and we do not influence public finances. Why do I agree that it is probably necessary to do so in the context of the budget rebalancing? Also because there is an urgent need to reduce public spending. The previous government, the previous coalition, managed to do this from 45 to 42, so as a percentage of GDP, and now in this situation, it is essential that this coalition also prepares a rebalancing so that it is absolutely oriented in this direction and will accelerate some public sector investments. This can be instruments that will help to maintain jobs during this time. Maintaining jobs, colleagues and colleagues, we will not help with the first law to replace part-time work. For a certain time. Perhaps it would be even more effective, or it would help, or it would be a good measure if the economic crisis were to come to an end. Now it's just starting. And not only are we in the opposition, you will say, smart and now we want some things, including experts, including your former ministers, from the former coalitions, Dr Dusan Maramor also points to this and says that it will only be three months before this economic crisis and the problem that companies will face. With these measures that we are proposing today, we are only proposing that this fall in this problem be minimised and that those who are still somehow above water be given the opportunity to swim and maintain jobs. Look, I was already at the last 4th extraordinary session we had, pointing out this in the VAT Act. Today you have also rejected the possibility of VAT refunding at seven. Okay, so we could have an amendment, say 15 or 20, I don't know, a few days. But at least there's something we could do without changing the law. At least they could have done so that the tax administration in companies would have made at least the monthly accounts when, say, the company is entitled to the refund or the month when it has to pay it. Dusan Maramor also notes and Umar notes that the problem in this overall financial stability of individual companies is also due to such matters. At least this settlement could happen. In short, whether or not there will be, the opposition has shown if anything happens. If we are really going to congregate these species, as foretold at the beginning of this coalition, then it is time to show some good will and support at the first serious meeting when dealing with the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u192	Thank you so much again for saying that. Mr Minister, I am very pleased that you are here now, that you will be able to monitor at least this part of the debate, and I hope that you will recognize that this law is also truly well-intentioned, constructive and, in particular, for the benefit of our entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship, and that you believe that those laws that we have discussed here today have already been discussed by the coalition, for which it has been somehow recognized that they will be rejected, that you will only reconsider and see that these laws, which, in turn, would have contributed to the timely response to these challenges, which are extremely important for our economy, and especially the small economy. The arguments cited here are not good for this law, which we are currently considering, that they should not be supported, I think they are not well reasoned, because it has been heard that the standard costs are too low, that they are not those that could motivate our entrepreneurs who would like to decide on such a way of running. I don't think that's gonna hold up. If that were true, it is not a problem to add an amendment or find a solution to define the standard costs that would have an effect here. There was an assessment here that the proposed Master Andrej Vizjak had too little time to prepare this law. This text of the law shows that this law has been extremely carefully prepared and has had all those elements that can help us make decisions. And if anything else has to be added, today there is a general debate and in the next procedure we can still finalize the law together, or as a government or coalition, that it will be such that it will have an effect. Believe me, it's not for some kind of populism. It is true to us that our entrepreneurs will recognize that the measures that help them are really being taken. There were also arguments that yesterday it was decided that the proposals of our laws had been rejected because there was no balance. I believe that certain effects that may occur may still be unknown or not known enough. But this is not the reason not to support these laws now, perhaps with some later validity, but to be supported and to enter into force after the adoption of the balance. It is important that we give our entrepreneurs a signal in due time that we step in with the expectation that they will benefit from, in order to be able to make decisions in the direction that will preserve their production, so that they can employ people and, above all, that they will not be forgiven. So once again, I appeal to you all to listen to our arguments. These are not arguments of populism, because there are four more years before the election. Indeed, these are constructive proposals that, along with the law you have tabled as the Government, will contribute to instilling a crisis that is also moving to Slovenia and will probably minimize its effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u194	Nicely greeted! The opposition's behavior is perfectly logical. At all levels, it happens the same. Filling the budget is someone else's concern, but spending is, of course, a matter of opposition and a lot of speech here tonight was very popular for a lot of people: Help, relief and so on. However, the Ministry only has to ensure that there is sufficient resources in the budget for legal obligations to provide a number of resources to address many social problems and the unemployed. And I'm pretty sure there's going to be a "shagger season" spending and we're going to be hearing this for a very long time. But I think this is also the right solution. Because for 200 euros in a year or 25,000 km in a long run, we can give it up. Because those workers who have 300 euros walk by bus, unfortunately, because they can't afford to have a car and pay for it. However, we know who walked the factories and who promised that even in Mura, there will be no need to worry about bread and that there will never be any "stretching" ever again. Of course, there are tasks that can be solved. And I am sure that it is the rebalancing that will show that the purpose of the government is to cut down on these problems and seek a solution, to help those who deserve it, but not those who can take advantage of it in such times of crisis. Of course, the government will have to deal with the skeletons falling out of the closet first and then take care of the bread for all those you have hired for an indefinite period of time. The sweets that Virant's payment bill has put to life will have to be settled, and so on. I am confident that in the next period, and very quickly, appropriate measures will be put in place to help all those who will really need help. But it's not a panic, because everyone's not that critical, and I think that money is everywhere. Money is in control councils, in salaries, what we read in newspapers, in certain directors, in the presidents of administrations and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm glad the Minister has joined us. Look, there's been a lot of talk about how we're all here for this support to small and micro-enterprises -- we all understand entrepreneurship, we all walked or those who said that you walked among entrepreneurs and basically supported them, yes, we stand up for you, we understand you, we support you. But when there are concrete documents, concrete laws, concrete solutions, and simpler solutions than those on the table today, I can't imagine at all. Very specific and very simple. Here, then, "I do, because we are in, but this is the situation, the government will change its mind, propose..." and so on. You know, entrepreneurs can wipe something off with excuses like that. Entrepreneurs understand a concrete measure, but they find it very difficult to understand nonsense, in their own words, politicians who are, in principle, for and understand them, but cannot because they have the courage and have no money. And when we talk about charging cash and budget, we need to know that all these measures are written for those who fill the budget and cash, all economic operators pay it with tax. And even under this law, companies will pay taxes. Even after this solution, companies will pay tax, possibly even more tax. I cannot predict that, for example, such a simplification move will not have a positive effect on the economic sector, which will evolve faster and will result in more pay and will soon fall beyond that limit of 100,000 euros and will breathe in some, I would say, not a simplified, but a normal tax system. So once again, I can't understand this logic that you are in principle in favour, but you will specifically oppose because the government will change its mind. I went to look into the government's normative work programme. Otherwise, it is for the second half of this year, which is said to be the autumn of the written novels of the law on income. Probably not for that change, for something else, because you wrote something else in the coalition contract. But I would remind you that similar solutions were advocated in the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. There really was a lot of "loads" like he was a mag. Vizjak said here, but mainly from the proponents. Yesterday, on the Committee, the proposers proposed the impoverishment of public finances by some €600 million. This was a proposal, with simple solutions and simple amendments to the laws, if it were adopted, would facilitate the State Treasury for 250 million in the corporate income tax law and the value added tax and the amendment for about 338. Later we tried to fix these things a little bit. It's true. But we also found yesterday that, in fact, there is a crisis in all areas, not just in the economy, in the public sector, which is actually being paid and financed by this work. The crisis is also in schools, the crisis is also in health care, the crisis is in social treasury. And it is necessary to provide money in the budget. The budget has one original source, these are tax revenues. This change you're now proposing, let's look at the numbers. 2006 was still a relief of about €16,200. At that time, about 22% of those who had the opportunity benefited from this relief. In 2007, this relief increased to 42,000. And look at the fraction, the users are only 18%. Today we raise it to 100,000, believe me, it'll be even less because the limit is rising. And this relief is intended for those who really work with their hands that can't show some of the costs that they do, sell some things, and that's actually why it's meant to be. But after his previous version, he had an average income of 3,500 euros. And if he managed to raise more than 875 euros in costs, he did not take that into account, not 25% of the limit, but rather gave the costs because he was actually lowering his tax base. The thing is, he had 25% more costs. This means that, in its previous application of EUR 16,000, 25% refused and paid the tax. Today, we propose that out of 100,000 euros, it will have 25,000 euros in costs and a tax fee of 75,000 euros. This means EUR 8,300 per month. It has to cost 2,000 euros, you're proposing to hire another worker, which means that if it works honestly and properly, it will earn 8,300 euros and it will probably exceed the 2,000 euro limit. It's probably gonna be. And then, of course, it doesn't pay off. Don't say he doesn't care about little craftsmen and stuff. It's a big deal. But that's demagogy, what you're preparing, what you're proposing, because of course it's not your concern. Public finances are not your concern right now. But we're talking about taking care of this country. And that's the thing, so we're opposed to such ad hoc solutions that you're trying to show here. Otherwise, if you were to prepare and say, "Let's raise these limits for relief." At that time, of course, they would go directly to the Treasury, ask the Ministry to prepare these calculations and find out what this means. And it's very good, and you've found very well that at the end of 2006, you were amending the Income Act, that it's necessary in those areas where it's difficult to show costs, and the costs are, that's agriculture, that's art trade, and some things, that these limits are much, much higher. That's right. And it was a good decision to help these people not to look for accounts and invent them, to impose costs and to simplify them. But a craftsman who makes 100,000 euros today can't do that just by saying, "Now I'm going to drop it." Perhaps you have someone in mind who would like to help him in this way, some counseling that would, of course, include some leverage of control, tax and anything else. This is for you. This is not intended for those who work with machines that invest in development. Because development means investing in fixed assets and they certainly exceed 25% of the limit and it is not worth it. That is why, of course, the story that we heard all the time and all the time today, and we listened to it yesterday, is a big load and unproductive and a shame, of course, that some people have to listen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Was something wrong? Yeah, it's true. But it's the end of the debate anyway. The text is also given by the proposer. The remaining five minutes, as previously indicated, were proposed to the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to be a little bumpy. It wasn't demagogy and bullshit. That was some bullshit we just heard. There was talk of relief. We don't even talk about any relief in this law. We are talking about raising the threshold for those taxpayers who can impose standard costs or expenses and so-called flat-rates. Look. It was said to be some kind of cheap demagogy of the opposition. We are talking about one of the requirements of the Slovenian craft. Then it's their demagogy. Then tell your colleague two lines back that there is a demagogy, because such requirements within the requirements of the Slovenian craft go to the Slovenian public and to you and to us and to the Slovenian government. Once again: this marriage proposal summarises the requirement of Slovenian craftsmanship. Not only that! It is also fully in line with the act for small and medium-sized enterprises of the European Union, whose main objective is to relieve them, to administratively relieve them to a certain threshold for micro-enterprises, and this is also intended to do so. And here you go with cheap demagogies because you deceive people if it's for some speculators and for some particular, I don't know, independent entrepreneurs written on their skin. This is a summary of the requirement of Slovenian craft, which you care little about for these requirements of Slovenian craft, which you also do not read. And, your honor, the goal, the purpose of this law is very simple. It is simple to take a step forward on the micro-enterprise segment and to adapt to the last situation by raising a threshold in 2007 and to help the smallest ones to freely choose how to pay the tax. They can also choose classic, standard, but they can do that. That doesn't bother anyone. But it's given to companies, and there's another possibility for those companies. If this takes advantage of 1,000 companies, there will be 1,000 companies, thank God it will be. And if we allow 1,000 businesses in this House to move forward, I will be very, very pleased as a representative of the proposer. You care a little bit. But you don't give a shit about 1,000 micro-entrepreneurs! At least that's how you talk and deceive. You're deceiving when you say that we proposed yesterday - yesterday this law, by the way, was not at all before the Committee on Finance. We didn't even talk about it. We talked about two other laws, the amendment of the value added tax law, the law on the income of legal persons, or the tax on the income of legal persons. The first VAT law has no public financial implications. However, there is a liquidity gap in a particular financial year and never again. Because more VAT payments will have to be returned in one calendar year. That's all it's about! More will have to be paid back to those who need to be paid back, and you call it an attack on public finances. To return the money to the entrepreneurs and thereby guarantee liquidity! In my opinion, the second law does not have an estimated EUR 250 million of public financial implications, because the tax on profits and, as a result, on investment and, of course, on existing tax benefits will be significantly lower than in previous years, precisely because of this cumbersome behaviour you are exhibiting here in support of the economy. That's the facts! And when we actually propose one extremely simple solution, one specific segment of the economy that needs it, instead of saying that the proposal is okay - I think it's a little too costly - let's raise the rate from 25% to 40. That's what you could say. You're saying that the matter is incomplete, that it needs to be further refined. I think the marriage is very specific. Just don't "fit" you to accept it, because he's the proponent of the wrong color. And you're saying again that you're not going to go through this division of "ours and yours," but you're going to support good ideas. And that's why we're here today. However, believe me, we will insist that we continue to make proposals, you, I believe you will also oppose and you will also attribute the consequences to such a way of working.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u201	Thank you very much. All the people you wanted, you got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing your hands are rising, so I'm going to open the application list and tell you how much time you have available. Check-in is on. Six debaters reported, each with five minutes. Mr. Miroslav Clown, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. Well, I have to say I didn't mean to come forward anymore, but I'd still like to tell you some facts about the back. That is, it seems to me that the principle is that the length of our memory is short. There has been a lot of talk about demands and the Chamber of Commerce and I must say that on 8 April 2008 we really sent a request to facilitate the establishment, return and settle at 20%. Right away, it's 17. 4. 2008 was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an inter-ministerial project group to examine the requirement to reintroduce tax incentives for development investments. There were many conversions, there was a lot of talk about this, and the Interdepartmental Commission then concluded by saying: "The proposal of the College of the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to increase the limited amount of tax relief by EUR 10,000 to EUR 20,000, that is, taking into account the same assumptions as in the assessment of the financial implications of the proposal of the Interdepartmental Project Group for the loss of government revenue of EUR 86 million. The proposal is rejected as it is financially ineligible in view of the projected public financial situation of the State budget. It is also estimated that the proposed limit for investment reliefs for the year 10,000 Euros, taking into account the average of the real-time private benefits in 2006, when investment aid was on average only EUR 1,447 per private person and EUR 4,687 per private person with a positive tax base, is high enough." At its 173rd regular meeting, on 12.6.2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a report from the Interdepartmental Project Group to examine the requirement for the reintroduction of tax exemptions for investments and supported the proposed conclusions and requested the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare appropriate legislative changes in this respect. We proposed, of course, 20,000 at the time. Now we have 30,000 and 30%. We assess, stress once again, because we have also discussed and talked with craftsmen and entrepreneurs, so that the benefits of the Income Act as a relief, if adopted as such, in the Law on the Income Tax of Legal Persons, those who satisfy and meet the most basic needs of small businesses in this country, for which we are committed and for which we, as their representatives, insist and make demands, are somehow satisfied. However, we have further assurance - and therefore we agree that there are in fact additional options for the rebalancing process and that others who are not covered in this context will also be able to overcome this crisis as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! The Income Act in the Slovenian People's Party, as well as in person, will be supported. I cannot agree that there should be a limit, as far as it is now included, or that this hundred thousand euro should be the one that should be very much discussed. It's true, he'll get involved, whoever gets involved. I can tell you that I myself, if I had this option, would certainly be involved in this matter, as it is necessary to know that some entrepreneurs are very difficult to tolerate these administrative obstacles, and I can tell you that these are just one of the great creative killers. In addition, the cost of accounting would be significantly reduced because I feel that my hard-earned income is being spent on revenge, if you want, these bookkeeping services. Because what's going on in this country today, I think it's out of line, but I can't help but find out and work here. See, as far as this is concerned - Mr Clown has said nicely - I am sure that at the Chamber of Commerce they already have it all prepared, that there is no need to calculate this at all, and we could have done this next month if we wanted to adopt this law. Just given that we are in a dynamic time when the government has a lot of work to do when the government has to respond to a lot of things immediately, today it would be up to the river: a better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof, and today it would take this matter away, and then, clearly, it would continue to work with all eagerness to come to the conclusions that we craftsmen propose. I call upon all the craftsmen, all those who come from this small economy, support this law today - I think the matter will "go through" - then let us talk further and finish. And this threshold that we're talking about, let's fix it. There's not enough of that 20 percent! But if we did the analysis - I think so, all the data is public - it can be calculated very quickly if the country loses anything at all. In today’s laws, we do no harm to the state, and we do no harm to the country’s finances. I also cannot agree with VAT if I have correctly understood that the timing of control or accounting is correct. You know, every spinster is afraid of being a dachshund. When that statement is given there, it must be credible. In the end, if it is found that something has not been done right, there must be a great punishment. I think these things can come back in seven days. This is mainly about the positive financial flow of the country. And we, too, have to worry about our positive financial flow. This is where help would be triggered. There have been too many speeches and visions about the past today. We're here now, living today. I don't have any obstacles at all, not with the previous government, not with the current government, but I want us to take the matter the way we've all been talking about. I think that the informal enterprise group will meet as soon as possible to discuss this and come to conclusions that will be good for everyone. We do not want to take anything away from anyone, but to do good, we work honestly and without unnecessary burdens. I tell you, there are too many in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Mencinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A while ago, some of us here have been alerting us to the crisis that is also taking place in Slovenia, and we were from the same people who are giving us advice today, left and right, but calmed down in this sense that these crises are not in Slovenia. I can say that I personally have a very bad feeling about these debates that have been here today. A little wormwood, a little bitterness and too much demagogy and, in fact, some fire-fighting "on-horoque" action. I'm not really for that kind of thing, and I'm gonna tell you why. In all these stories: time as a crisis, recessions I think can be really positive or also negative consequences. Today we have heard that these companies, which are linked to the automotive industry, are in crisis, not only these companies, but also the other companies that have worked and supplied certain parts of this industry, that is all in crisis. That is why there is a major problem here with this small economy, and everyone first gives up services to the least vulnerable. So I can say that the entrepreneur as such - I'm 18 years old myself and I know that this is not easy and I'll tell you why. New entrepreneurs also need to have an idea, they need to acquire their resources or on the market, and, more importantly, they need to have a lot of money. In this situation, more could be done, and it would really be possible to give the advantage of somehow focusing on those innovative companies, this is something new in this sense, because we can be competitive in other markets as well. The Chinese proverb somehow teaches the hungry one not to give fish, but to teach them how to fish and to enable them to fish. We come to the system and around this system will have to be set very quickly in Slovenia, of course, to set goals earlier. These include ministries, chambers and the entire educational system. The next thing that is very important is to create the conditions for the development of a small economy. Here is primarily legislation, spatial documentation, municipal infrastructure and, of course, finance. If I turn everything into a cellophane, there is also a very important component of time, because we know what decisions are and how the entrepreneurial idea needs to be realized in a short time, and if that is not the case, then we really need to ask ourselves where the problem is. I think that in this part we see that some municipalities are very successful, they are successful because they were able to listen because they had a structured vision and strategy of the place as such, and they also subordinate spatial documentation and all municipal infrastructure at this level. In the past, the problem may also have been that we invested a lot of money in roads, and we were normally in debt. What was then in the bank's work is another story. Most of the time, though, real estate was done, and again the problem is that this thing was put in place where it belongs through this recession. In fact, in this story, banks are in even more difficult situations because they are also in great trouble. Thus, the situation is very, very bad and that is why I am against such fire-fighting actions 'on the hook' because, in fact, in the final phase, as some colleagues have said, these are more pre-election actions at the beginning of the mandate. But what surprises me is that if we all said that we were in a boat, but that's a boat without a motor, and that's a boat on a paddle in the wind, let's figure out where we're going to take this boat, how we're going to row and how we're going to use that wind as much as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor. You're giving up. Mrs. Silva Nigga?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm quitting, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u209	Thank you. And Mr. Anton Kampush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u210	I was Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia a few years ago, and when I go back, I must say that we had the devil's torments to improve the conditions for the operation of crafts in Slovenia even when he was, of course, a former minister. Very little could be moved, very little! We've been putting a lot of effort into it. So at this point, I must say that the measures are going in the right direction. By no means should we think that we will achieve 100% the satisfaction of entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and so on. No way! Because we're never going to do that, but things are going in the right direction. And at this point, I must admit that we must be content. However, it is not to think that we will not monitor the following measures that are necessary and will be necessary. These governments, too! These governments, too. We will! And, of course, we want measures to go forward in this direction to improve the conditions of management. Next month, we want the measures to continue and, as planned by the Government, we get comprehensive measures for better management and more favourable conditions in the second half of the year. So by the end of the year - I almost hope to say that, as far as I know the programme of the government and the economic ministry, including some other departments, the financial ministry - I can hope that we will then, then towards the end of the year, take two steps further, as the former Minister of Economic Affairs thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the 21-hour and 5-minute votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly session, which we'll resume in half an hour. That's twenty-five hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u212	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First of all, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of their voting device, namely, the orange light on the right hand side of the card inserted. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on partial full-time subsidisation - urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Procedurally, Mr. Znidarsic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm informing you that he took the last train, and the bus was long gone. I'd like you to take care of the transport so you don't have to walk to Trebnje. Because I've used my car so far, but today I wouldn't, because I don't get an adequate payment or compensation for costs that are disproportionately higher than the train ticket. And it is the duty of the National Assembly to resolve this, given that I have the right to wait, despite the fact that the last train goes to vote. This right cannot be withdrawn from the Member and therefore I would like this to be settled. I prefer to see a car with a driver, because after so many hours of work I am very tired of walking or driving the car alone in these unpleasant conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Znidarsic. We will arrange this with professional services so that you can safely and safely come home to Trebnje. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u215	Because the opposition wants to help the honourable Member, I can drag him to Trebnje because I'm going through this. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u216	Mr. Visjak, these are thanks for the invitation. [[...]] These are individual arrangements with which you can agree outside the hall. I would not like Mr Žnidarsic's procedural proposal, which in fact assesses and refers to the work of this assembly, to be the subject of debate, and therefore, of course, I conclude these procedural questions. And like I said, we're going to the vote. Explanation of voice. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? I am opening a debate to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Matevž Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u217	We will support the proposed law in Social Democracy. We understand the presentation of the feelings of workers and workers in the Republic market today, but we estimate that in order for this measure to be fully operational, to ensure that the maximum possible number of jobs is maintained, the law must also be supported without the unions' side and the proposed minimum wage insurance guards. The Social Democrats will support this bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. We will abstain from voting on this law in the SDS Group of Members. For we believe that the law will not bring the effects you want with it. And it is likely that there will still be confusion in the public that forgiveness will not only prevent forgiveness by this law, which, of course, can happen, even if the government does not do anything else about it. Some of you have said several times today that government measures are better, more concrete. I am interested in what these measures are, because half of today's session, or three quarters, are our proposals, which, in your own way, have been somewhat muzzled, but these are our proposals, not your government's proposals. The only measure proposed by your side, which we spoke of today, you said you're giving it to the workers. At the same time, we witnessed demonstrations out there. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u220	Dear colleague Jerajev, I ask for explanations of vote, but not of controversy with the opposite parliamentary group or Members. That's the deal we made, and you're the one who's embalming. I would ask you to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u221	Good. We will not support or abstain from the law, because it is obviously not supported by those who are intended to do so, namely, by trade unions as workers’ representatives, or by employers. We would expect or perhaps there will be other administrative complications, which means that the assistance the Government wants to give to the companies will come too late. In our view, a serious government is also preparing for a serious situation. We would expect a serious approach, a systemic one, and a number of measures that would complement each other and actually produce the effects that we all want together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Explanation of the votes of Members and Members. I'm opening the application. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will support the proposed law with the expectation that the Government will continue to analyse the economic situation and prepare appropriate measures in advance. Unfortunately, there was little time left today for some measures to be taken in addition to this law. I think or I am sure that this law will also help at least some businesses, which in this way will, at least, help to overcome the underlying crisis that is currently taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, colleagues, colleagues, Members, Members of Parliament, co-workers, co-workers! The law will certainly allow some employees to keep their jobs. But very rare and selective, for this law stimulates wrongdoing. However, even if some jobs remain, it is worth it because the job does not only mean an economic category but also a social and psychological category. However, it is not enough for jobs, because restructuring would need to be more radical and new knowledge and development should be used, so to speak, restructuring. If we go back to what we had before, we'll just put off the problems for five, ten years. Because problems, financial problems and economics are becoming a global problem, the problem of hyperproduction and consumption, the depletion of natural resources and environmental pollution. That is why we expect to improve matters through the following measures, and that is why I will also abstain from making decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I, too, as a parliamentary group, will abstain from this vote for two reasons. Firstly, because the law itself by subsidising is intended for non-equity, non-equity or non-performing companies and the maintenance of non-performing jobs, for which you believe they will be abolished as soon as the end of the subsidy is six months. There are two ways to approach fire extinguishing, if a burning barn in the middle of the village, with a high flame and a limited amount of water available, then firefighters do not put out a fire that cannot be extinguished, but a leak points to still healthy houses to prevent their burning. And we have proposed three laws, which we have also addressed today, which are intended for good-looking companies, for maintaining promising jobs, for developing those companies that we can count on to succeed in this aid, and for rejecting or rejecting two laws in full, and for breaking one so that it will no longer be similar. Because I'm at the same time [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Another reason is that the Act on subsidisation of these jobs in no way prevents the reduction of the minimum or wages of workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote in favour of this law despite the fact that I have some concerns that I would like to raise. The thoughts are similar to those that inspired the unions today, and I have also talked to them, and the real impression that has arisen is that we will subsidise employers without preventing further wage cuts and, of course, other social rights. That this was not the law or purpose, it is clear. The aim is to prevent workers from being forgiven and, if this is the goal, of course, this law makes sense. I also support it because it's time-limited. In one year or about one year, we will check whether these measures were justified and meaningful or were indeed the right trade unions. Well, I also support it because the Government has complied with certain requirements and has actually introduced in Article 2 a guarantee that, in particular, in determining shorter working hours, up to thirty-two hours, the key negotiator will be the union. From this point of view, a compromise has been reached which justifies the vote for, but I am voting with a certain restraint and in the hope that the validity of this law will be demonstrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I cannot support this solution myself either, of course because of some symbolic effects, I cannot oppose it either, so I will abstain. However, I think there is actually one symbolic message ahead of us as to how the Government sees solutions to the problems that have arisen. So in helping those who are already or symbolically helping those who are or will become into trouble and in such an unreachable way that they will rarely, I think, serve. Instead of encouraging the development of those with a development vision in a timely manner, we have repeatedly proposed this through our proposals. According to my assessment, there is also one huge fiscal dimension that will require the implementation of this law. I am sure that this law will not tangulate half a million workers in the Republic of Slovenia, because only if half a million workers are subsidized would this result in the financial consequences of €240 million, because each worker can get about €360, nothing more than €6 months after €60, and some will apply twice, and some will get about half a million. It won't be that much, and this is where the government buys an argument, if there's no money for other things, because we're gonna spend it here. With this proposal, employers are not satisfied, trade unions are not satisfied, and it reflects some of the government's passivity in solving these problems, and this concerns me. You have announced measures that will be in line with the social partners, but today we have protests before Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A proposal for a law amending the Added Value Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration." Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will not support this decision or support the proposal that the law is not appropriate. The law, we believe, is suitable for further consideration. Not only is it suitable for further consideration, the law is essential for the Slovenian economy. I am sure that one of the biggest problems of the economy at this time is liquidity and access to financial resources - unfortunately, still, despite some measures taken; the interbank market does not work, even below the service of the economy does not work as the economy expects. Any measure that ensures that the economy has liquidity, that is to say, that it has its own money, is still necessary and important. This measure, which we propose to return overpaid value-added tax to companies earlier than 60 days, is said to return to Day 7, is also, in my opinion, the reflection of at least some European Union countries, Estonia has 5 days, the Netherlands, Ireland 7 to 10 days. And to argue that bureaucracy is unable to verify the accounts so quickly and to return it and that these would have negative public effects do not outweigh the need for liquid assets in the economy. I think that the concern of Members and Members, as well as the government, must be that the economy is first liquid. And the liquid economy is not least in better shape and can then contribute to the full state budget. This is where we face a different approach. We are most concerned about the liquidity of the one who pays us, the Members and the Government, and the less liquidity of the one who fills the state budget and pays 100,000 people who provide daily bread with their work. So, also, this measure, which I believe will not hit public finances in the longer term at all, will only contribute to the liquidity shortfall in the current financial year, is good, worthy of support and will therefore be supported. And I also ask the other Members and Members to finally realise that this is a measure that will benefit the economy and the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Explanation of the votes of Members and Members. I'm opening the application. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Respectable associates and coworkers. I will support the proposal that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Of course, but - why? Because I believe that, despite the good sense, we have already achieved the Ministry's commitment, with the work and work on the Committee, to prepare a balanced proposal in the context of the discussion on the budget rebalancing, such a proposal that takes due account not only of the revenue but also of the expenditure. Such a proposal allows us to maintain the right level of deficit for 2008, for 2009, 2010 and so on. And above all, such a measure as it will allow, it may be that my colleague forgets before me, the payment of not only wages, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u236	There is no controversy in the explanation of the voice, as we have already warned. Explain your voice and do not compromise with representatives of other parliamentary groups and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u237	Thank you very much. So, I believe that the proposal at the time will make the budget balanced, while it still seems to me that it is not ripe and is therefore not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u239	I will be surprised by a separate opinion, but in fact I support the SDS proposal and will not vote against this proposal. For at least on a symbolic level he warns the government of something that is real, real. And because I was an entrepreneur myself - for eight years I acted as an independent journalist, and I was in a very similar situation, like companies, when they have to invest, credit the country, late get the money back and no interest at all. So this is one practice that needs to be interrupted. I think this proposal very seriously points out that a mistake was made yesterday when you did not agree on a compromise decision. I hope the government is aware of that. For if we are obliged to provide liquidity for the country, we are obliged to provide liquidity for the rest of the company and this is the economy, these are economic operators, of course, which are part of this country and without the effectiveness of one segment is not the efficiency of another. That is why, fellow Members, I will abstain. I will abstain in symbol of symbolic support for the proposal, but since I am part of the coalition, I do not want to oppose my government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u240	Thank you very much. If I may say so, this is the right way to explain the voice. At a time when the voice of the Member differs from that of the Group of Members. So much, by the way. Otherwise, the Black Bell has the word. Of course, it's the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u241	I propose, fellow Members of the ruling coalition, that you follow this call by the President of the National Assembly and that there be as many explanations as possible. Why is it worth supporting this law and keeping it open? It is, of course, possible to change it in the next legislative procedure and it is not said anywhere that the deadline should be extended from 60 to 7 days. That's what we talked about on the committee yesterday. What is essential is that this measure be taken immediately and that the liquidity economy is decommissioned. For this measure, unlike what you have just adopted, will take effect immediately and will not constitute a direct public deficit in increased expenditure as a law on which you have given your consent at the previous point. This is only a liquidity outflow, which makes it easier for the State to access financial credits than for the economy in these circumstances. As you know, we have passed a law on this November, but these measures simply do not work. Why is speed important in this situation? It is important because it gives an appropriate positive signal. Remember, as long as 8 October there would be no public statement by the then Minister of Finance that the guarantee for bank deposits is unlimited, even though we did not adopt the law until a month and a half later, panic would likely occur. There would be an outflow of deposits from banks, and now we would probably be witnessing a completely different situation than we did today when this crisis was prevented in this segment. I think it would be right for this law to remain in procedure and to be further finalized in the follow-up procedure. That's why I'm voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will not support this proposal myself, and I regret that such a proposal was voted on the Committee yesterday, because this is the law that our economy urgently needs. I do not know why such an attitude towards our entrepreneurs, because these funds, which are now being turned by the State for an unjustified 60 days, are urgently needed to overcome liquidity problems. It is precisely at a time when the difficulties in lending are particularly difficult for small entrepreneurs to help them with this measure and to cope with this crisis together in a way that would not significantly affect the state budget. Therefore, I really appeal that this proposal is not supported, even by the coalition, to allow the possibility that this law, if necessary, might be added, although I believe it itself, is not, for that reason too, that the administration in our tax administration would not be able to do so within these timeframes is simply not able to do so. Otherwise, it can be submitted from this proposal for thirty days. Finally, let us support then that income law, where we will give the opportunity for more independent entrepreneurs to opt for a flat rate, means that fewer tax officials will have an administration with them, and let them deal with the fact that they will be able to return these funds as soon as possible, because these are the assets of our craftsmen. Therefore, as I have mentioned, I will not, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u244	Thank you. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u245	Thank you very much. While I supported the previous full-time subsidisation law with the hope that, as has already been said in the explanatory statement, the coalition will also support the amendment of the Tax Law. Indeed, it seems important to me - liquidity problems, as the minister thinks or is told by the Government that income and expenditure should be seen at the same time. If these VAT were to be reimbursed more quickly, i.e. not within 60 days, the problem could be on the liquidity side of the country. But this law has been proposed by the opposition for this reason because the economic crisis has arisen. And also liquidity problems are felt by entrepreneurs, economists. And because they feel these problems, they were able to solve them earlier with liquidity loans. Today, they don't get these liquidity loans, on the one hand. And on the other hand, what's even bigger than nonsense, is that once they have a positive, secondly negative VAT and tax administrations don't account for it, that is, they don't pay off. And it is essential that we help the economists in this way. If we reject this decision now, therefore, the law is being amended further and this can be regulated in the meantime. It would be really good to reject this decision and give this law a free way forward in order to promote the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 36 Members and Members. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 1 of the SDS Group. You have an amendment review on your dishes, so you can follow. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this amendment because it is important to bring the two worlds closer together, namely the world of scientific and research institutions and economies, to get closer and closer together, and that companies are stimulated through tax reliefs to invest more in research and development and thus to build on their competitive capacity, their innovation and their developmental orientation. I therefore believe that there is never enough incentives, concrete incentives towards achieving this objective, which is also a fundamental objective of the European Union. The Lisbon Strategy is based on this approach; the approach of how to achieve a higher degree of developmental orientation in the economy and consequently solutions, technological solutions, completed solutions, which naturally build on either products, services or technological processes. Without attracting the private sector to these investments, you can make hundreds of calls, this will not happen. The private sector must participate and take responsibility in investment, and this is best done horizontally, based on tax approaches. More. For reasons of non-support to this proposal, it was heard that this was not necessary. There are also some public financial problems here, but they are in a smaller form that this matter is not necessary and here I have remembered and read a coalition contract where the coalition has committed itself to increasing incentives for the private sector through tax, through the law on corporate income tax. I therefore think it is very important that it is really important that we increase investment in business research and development so that we can do this very effectively through the solutions of this law. Therefore, to increase tax relief from 20% to 40% and from 40% to 60% in the environment, which is faced with greater development challenges and issues. Therefore, increasing tax incentives for research and development, the development measure, helps the economy and certainly the medium-term objective, can also take a short time to avoid talking about the long-term benefits of this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Explanation of the votes of Members and Members. I'm opening the application. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u249	One of the levers with which Japan maintained and accelerated its economic growth during the postwar period was that whenever a problem arose whenever development started slowing down, investments in development and knowledge were further stimulated. And that's exactly what we're proposing with this amendment. This would already be an argument as to why this amendment is worthy of support. After all, you've committed yourself to this in your coalition contract, which you've probably left somewhere under the bench. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u250	Mr Grimes, once again, there is no controversy with other parliamentary groups or Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u251	The old proverb says that a cagav boy has never slept with a girl, and the chagava government will certainly not be able to initiate or at least maintain high economic growth from the past period. Raising excise prices and thus exhausting everything in Slovenia and at the same time paying for the week, this is the path to prolonging the species in the Employment Institute and precisely this irresistance, slowness, slowness and half-life that you are showing will lead you to replace your hymn internationalism with that of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u252	Mr Grimes, I ask you to explain your voice, why you will vote as you intend to vote, but not to dispute, neither with the Government nor with the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u253	I know you don't like it, and you're taking advantage of the fact that it wouldn't be possible to play it, so please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, because that's exactly what I'm doing, just let me take the thought to the end and give me extra time, because now you've reached into my word twice. It's a single sentence. So this half-life and the slowness in taking measures that require rapid action will lead to you being able to replace your hymn international with that of Smolar, the Employment Institute, this is where your dreams end. And if it didn't happen, please, like I'm going to do myself, support [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u255	Thank you again very much for your word. Of course I'll support this amendment. I hope he's supported by the coalition. But if you don't hope to support this amendment, at least abstain, then we'll vote for it. For this tax relief is indeed for the benefit of our entrepreneurs. And that argument that you have cited in the debate to allow entrepreneurs to come to the necessary money for research and development is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. Because, for such an invitation to tender, the entrepreneur needs people, experts who know about these things, to be able to prepare tender documents. And if we look at each of these calls, we can get a few tens and a few hundred. Such a measure will, however, be able to apply or benefit from this option to anyone who wishes to devote those funds to research and development and thus allow entrepreneurship to meet all the challenges posed by this situation. Once again, as I said, at least abstain if you do not hope to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the decision of the SDS Group on the amendment to Article 2. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u257	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment because it brings back the essence or most important part of this law, the heart of this law that we have tabled. We believe that it is important, through investment tax incentives, to encourage all the size of companies to reinvest in profits, as this reinvested profit is multiplied through investment in equipment and intangible fixed assets in the coming years. It is worthwhile to brush our teeth and allow businesses to develop in particular in times of crisis to weigh down some of the problems the company is facing because certain other companies are in crisis, so they can re-engage and carry some of the burden. At the same time, they can take advantage of the crisis as a challenge and as an opportunity, including as a restructuring, as necessary, because a number of companies, because of some conjunctural movements and some favourable period, do not even decide on some bold moves that occur most when they creak a bit in the company. Many good Slovenian companies can take advantage of this crisis as an opportunity, so they should be allowed a certain amount of money, which they themselves, by the way, deserve to be reinvested as a profit. In doing so, they will return this back to the country several times over the taxes paid, through the contributions paid, which will be borne by this very investment, which will be made possible by the investment relief. So this is one of the most targeted development measures the Slovenian economy needs. We are sure there is a financial space for this. According to the data I have, about 20% of the tax will be collected last year, especially the corporate income tax, as originally envisaged. This is a huge scale, as they have always conservatively predicted tax revenues in all governments and have always proved to be greater in the end. And so it will be based on the 2008 tax year. The financial space for this is also and let us give it to those who need it most: these are companies with development ambitions that have programmes that can draw the Slovenian economy from these times of crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u258	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this amendment because we believe that this is one of the key measures that can accelerate this development cycle to move forward. And also because of that story that I explained to you in my debate, that is, because of those investments that have stopped because of the bank sector's inability to finance these investments, because of those investments that are practically at the end that will start to work and will have to be reimbursed at this bad time. It is important to know that companies and management, administrations, when deciding on these investments, decided at a completely different time, during a time of conjugation, at a time of optimism. And if you knew then that bad times were coming, a lot of people wouldn't choose to invest. And it would be good if we didn't let these societies down this time, and because of the investments they made in the good times, this time these societies would have to fail, I think it would be wrong. In short, this amendment will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u261	Respected and respected! In this law, we will present the views of the parliamentary group as opposed to anyone else only once, even out of respect for the time we have already spent in this Chamber today. The Social Democrats will support the solutions contained in the bill, so we will not support the proposed amendment. We believe that the additional investment facility is an appropriate measure to relieve the small economy, in particular due to the validity of this relief in 2008. This is also the realization of one of the coalition commitments given. At the same time, we believe that other, better targeted measures for technological development in the economy are needed, and we therefore point out the government's already adopted measures, which have significantly strengthened the financial incentive for technological development of enterprises through grants, which in this case are a more targeted and effective measure for the technological development of the economy. As we have repeatedly pointed out in the debate, we estimate that our common concern and common ground for reflection on the resolution of the economic and financial crisis must also be that we maintain the state of public finances above the 3% of the public financial deficit. This is the assurance that we maintain a relatively favourable position in international financial markets, which will be crucial in situations where countries and economies will have to raise funds in international capital and financial markets, which will be essential for us to be able to face the crisis successfully and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I am opening an application to explain the votes of Members and Members. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u263	The amendment introduced by this amendment is a key change in this law for two reasons. The first, I believe, is that the adoption of this amendment eliminates inequalities between different entities in relation to their legal organisation. I've talked about this before in the debate. I said plastic case. Someone who's organized as s.p. and will invest millions of euros in the purchase of the new machine, will be eligible for 300,000 reliefs, someone who will buy the same machine in terms of d.o.o. will be entitled to 30,000 euros in relief. This is unacceptable and if you do not support this amendment, you will only support this distinction on the basis of different status forms. The second reason, which I think is even more crucial, is that the economic situation has changed. It would therefore make sense that this measure would have been adopted already when the previous Government proposed it in November last year, and relates to the provision of restructuring to those who will have to redirect production to other products because, on certain products, sales fall from a percentage of 30, 40. Therefore, they will need funds to buy new equipment. And when, if not in this situation with effect for 2008, such a measure makes sense, I ask you. Even if you suggest it in a month or two, these effects will no longer be what they would be. I'm afraid, my esteemed colleagues and my well-respected minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u264	Mr. Cernač, you're embezzling with parliamentary groups. Please tell me why you will vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u265	I have stated my position, Mr President, and I follow your words that we will not "scramble" in the words of the National Assembly. But I see you're saying something, and you're doing something else. So, I will support this amendment because it is imperative to support it for these two reasons that I have mentioned earlier and because we will otherwise or will tarnish Vision’s law. This will no longer be our marriage, but it will be the victory of your ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I support the amendment contained in the proposal, mainly for the reason that we are helping businesses and those companies that are working. Those companies that have thought from Radovan's story about how they're going to produce, how they're going to get added value and keep production and jobs in the area they're working on. Because we are in a crisis today, not because of ourselves, or if you want to, Slovenia, but because of this "household casino" that has happened in the world, it has led to where we are today. In Slovenia, too, so-called "policy casinos" or excuses, economists who brought large, beautiful, healthy companies, which were proud of the Slovenian economy, to the brink of collapse. Those people who built those companies are crying in front of the cameras today when their successors led to where they are. We need to help these companies that have been working and I want them to continue working, so I will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 37 votes against and 45 votes against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support this amendment because it is logical that the tax burden and the tax burden on companies should be slightly removed, alleviated and reduced, i.e. reduce the tax rate and relieve the tax economy. In my opinion, this is very important when businesses actually have a lot of problems and when it is still important that they be able to cope with these problems. Last but not least, when we compare tax rates in the Republic of Slovenia and also this overall tax rate of 20%, which, by the way, the previous government has reduced from 25 to 20, gradually, a percentage point per year, this tax rate is still too high, especially for some competitors who are also fighting us for European and global investments. The arrival of foreign direct investment, which you referred to as one of the very important programme objectives, is very much dependent on the tax environment in one country and on this tax rate, which is of course general - the one we are talking about now is 20%, but it is, of course, effective if there are adequate tax reliefs. You do not want to lower tax rates, obviously, in the Republic of Slovenia this moment. I hope you'll do it later, but I'm very afraid - and we're proposing it. We propose that the tax burden should be reduced, that companies should have a more tax-friendly environment and that the tax rate should be improved from 20% to 18%. I believe that this will cause a headache or no headache for the Minister of Finance in the short term, but surely in the long term, a measure that will help the Slovenian economy to develop rapidly and more rapidly, so we have proposed it, and therefore we believe that it would be worthwhile to implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We have decided to follow the opinion of the vast majority of the economic profession, which says that at the time of the recession it is necessary to encourage consumption, consumption, but not to encourage savings, and because we know that such a measure would only allow the pockets of those owners who would choose not to reinvest their profits, but perhaps to repay the credit obligations they have, and because we do not want to encourage savings now, but rather the right consumption, we believe that such a decision is wrong in this case and therefore we reject such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Explanation of the votes of Members and Members. I'm opening the application. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u273	Look, the proposed measure is something that works in the long run. There are calculations that you have in each textbook that prove that, in fact, it is the only thing that accelerates economic growth in the long run, the very reduction of taxes. And that's exactly what's proposed here. Today, in fact, one of the things that should worry about everything is that it was mainly from the government's point of view to the importance of only short-term measures, but short-term measures are shutting down, there is something that buys us extra time, but this additional time must be devoted to initiating a new development cycle to accelerate development, to establish conditions, a framework for a new, faster development achievement of our country. And for that reason, this proposal makes a lot of sense. It would make even more sense if we could, of course, be able to take courage earlier and accept that proposal for additional tax relief for investment in knowledge and development. For then it is a comprehensive measure to enable the economy, on the one hand, to maintain money, and on the other hand to encourage this same economy to invest at that point, which is the only perspective to open up new productive high-paid jobs, so that it invests in knowledge and development. We simply maintain some manual production or things that have long since moved from other European countries, of course, we cannot achieve this development cycle, so it is necessary to take a holistic approach to this and that is why this law was so important. And it is also possible to ensure that its quality is maintained. Support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u275	With this amendment, we want the law to be applied already in the calculation of the corporate income tax for 2008 - of course this has a marginal effect now, because a decade-long tax relief. Indeed, it is limited to 30,000 euros, as you voted. However, this is important, and therefore I believe that the amendment is worthy of support and we will support it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47 Members and Members. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 3. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 4th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u277	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed decision and thus the proposed law, because we believe that this solution extends the circle and loosens these harsh conditions so that some, in particular micro-enterprises, are able to make business easier, reduce bureaucratic obstacles and make it easier to do important work if they so choose. The so-called normists or flatlists will use this option if it proves to be financially more favourable. However, they will not use it if they calculate to pay less to the State with the actual tax. Therefore, it does not only mean bureaucratic decommissioning of micro-enterprises, it also means financial decommissioning of that part of micro-enterprises that decide to do so. And there's one more thing. This part or such approach is supported by associations representing small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also a European approach advocated by the Small Business Act. The European Union also recognises that these are exceptions, that this is not a rule, that this possibility has failed to give a group of companies, a smaller group of companies, to make their lives easier. That is why the European threshold for not going beyond this threshold is also set, for then the matter would probably be significantly more imprecise. We think that there are relatively uncertain times in these relatively uncertain times when there will also be no work left behind, including the possibility of a new start for businesses and entrepreneurs who will eventually take this path and will be able to develop something bigger later. That is why we want to go against them, and that is why we are raising this threshold for them, not only symbolically, but also very concretely expressing our support and affection. I therefore believe that this is another measure which I do not know how revolutionary, but it is important for small and micro enterprises and will certainly benefit many people. It would be even more beneficial, of course, if we went forward with the procedure of this law and changed the rate. Instead of 25%, let's say 40%, this increases the amount of this expenditure that is recognised and additionally burdened. Well, we'll support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I shall open an explanation to the vote on behalf of the Members and Members. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u279	Very briefly. I think that the proposal is simply not appropriate to go back to the hearing because it is incomplete and does not allow for concrete solutions. If you know what the cost structures of smaller and larger enterprises are, and you know how standardised costs are regulated, you will immediately understand that even if you increase the threshold, you would not be able to achieve any real solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u281	Thank you. The second part of the Japanese economic miracle, in addition to accelerated investment in research and development, has always been a small economy when they were a step away from the crisis - those small and medium-sized enterprises, sometimes family enterprises, as they used to say. And this part of the economy will have to pay special attention, additional relief right now, because this moment is crucial and time is running. I don't know that time you're missing, because, for prestigious reasons, you're rejecting our proposals, and no one in Slovenia will be able to repay this lost time. For today, when viewers and viewers listen to you, they may feel that there are about 50 peasant brides in this room who say about every proposal we have considered, "Yes, but you wouldn't today, but not in this way..."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u282	Mag. Grims, please do not comment on the position of other parliamentary groups. Explain your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u283	Of course, it is precisely to gather courage to allow at least that part of the economy to take additional initiative, to further develop and thus to maintain the quality that we have established in the previous mandate. As good a legacy as your government has taken over, no government has ever taken over this country. And he loses it because of his greed, because of his slow action, because of his prestigious reasons. This is irresponsible to Slovenia. Please act responsibly and press together that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. We can work it out together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u285	Thank you for your word. I will vote against it, although at times a person has a reluctant feeling that the best minister would be the former minister who has many more proposals in this mandate than he had in previous implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-14-SDZ5-Izredna-05.ana.u286	Kek, you've, of course, abused the explanation of the voice. Although you have said that you will vote against this proposal, you have referred to a person who cannot speak at this time. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and very much.
