ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, a lovely greeting! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mr Bogdan Barovic and Mr Iztok Podkrižnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. Agenda item - First draft of the Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 13 Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Kamnar, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! There's a tax law on motor vehicles ahead of you. The bill essentially represents one of the important elements of the so-called green tax reform. The essence of the law is the transition from taxation at the price of cars to CO2 taxation and environmental pollution. The objective we have pursued in this regard is to achieve the objectives and commitments we set out in 2007 with the signing of the Kyoto Agreement as soon as possible. We know that transport in our country is one of the key pollutants in the environment, so transport also requires some measures to help reduce CO2 emissions. The key changes contained in the law are: the inclusion of non-taxable engines; the introduction of a progressive scale, which introduces three classes that bind to CO2 emissions; the lowest class is up to 150 grams of CO2 per cubic metre. In this case, the resulting tax change will lead to lower taxes and consequently to a slight decrease in retail prices. The middle class, which ranges between 150 and 210 grams, means an increase of about 150% in the final stage. Due to the great impact and the current economic situation, we have foreseen a transitional period, so that during the transition period this increase will not be so drastic, but will increase between 2% and 10%. The transitional period should be one year. The third class is over 210 grams of discharges, in which case the tax should be increased by 210%. The final effects of this taxation will be such that prices will be around 40% of the cheapest cars, as the exemption is usually linked to the power of the engine and to the price of cars, are likely to be of little value unless the producers of this space use the tax reduction to increase prices. In the middle class, i.e. between 150 and 210, there are approximately 50% of all motor vehicles, prices are expected to rise to a maximum of 10% in the transition period, and inflation will range from 2% to 10%. The highest class covers only 10% of all vehicles. These are top-priced cars where elasticity to consumption is not, in fact, or minimal, and we also estimate that the effects of this increased tax will not be felt by consumption itself or by producers. It may also be necessary to mention that the introduction of a special register, which is a prerequisite for such taxation, significantly reduces the possibility of avoiding tax payments, which I think will lead to further inflows into the state budget in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the ecological focus of the tax on motor vehicles. Despite the fact that we have some concerns about concrete solutions that I will briefly touch on below, this particular environmental aspect seems to us to be at least as important as the second objective pursued by this proposal of the law. I have in mind, of course, the avoidance of tax evasion, which, according to our available data, comes in quite a number because of the system that is currently in place. It is right that the new tax rate is linked to CO2 emissions, given the significant impact of our planet's pollution on climate conditions, whose changes we have been experiencing lately, you are right. And it is only right that we also deal with these problems in an indirect way, through the taxation of pollutants. The only question is whether there is a fairly high difference in taxation between petrol and diesel engines, and it is only equivalent to the sale of vehicles that will only be marketed over an unknown number of years. We would be pleased to hear some comments from the proposer. We also wish that the proposed taxation would not re-incentivise and lead to new abuses and avoidance of tax pay. We are wondering whether, given the state of the economy in Slovenia and in the world, the time is right to increase the taxation of certain car classes. We all know well that many Slovenian companies are linked to the fate of Europe or the global automotive industry. At a time when some Member States are introducing direct incentives for the purchase of new vehicles, Slovenia is increasing the price of these vehicles by significantly increasing the taxation of indeed larger cars. The price that all of us, especially our craftsmen, will pay for excessive pollution of the environment is already too high. However, due to the situation in another, equally important area, it may be worth considering or pointing out once again some steps in order to avoid, again, re-emphasising and continuing tax evasion, in particular to verify and establish such procedures that would prevent this. Whatever the answer to our dilemmas and questions will be, we will support the proposed law in the SLS Group as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u6	Your Honor! We have a law in front of us that wants to settle at least three questions. While we believe that it would be misunderstood if this law meant, in particular, the filling of the state treasury with coverage in this area as well. It is clear that there is a lot of green within us and that we support that part of the law, especially when it passes through Slovenia, one of them, say, the first countries or between the 16 countries in the European Union, when it also includes emissions of CO2 or gases polluting the environment. I think that only then will there be a very clear signal in Europe that Europe wants to do more in this area, too, when Germany joins as the leading car force, could I say that in addition to the United States of America and Japan, which is conducting some things in this area. She hasn't made up her mind yet. As it is said, it is appropriate that the Republic of Slovenia, if in some other areas we are unable to meet certain conditions both from Kyoto and from other commitments we have, and therefore pay the penalty to approach the first in this area. While it would be wrong to try to influence both supply and demand and the market and to put some categories and some groups with too much progress in a worse position. And let him be manufacturers, let him be traders, let him be users after all. Everyone has to pay for actual or at least approximately actual consumption or pollution of the environment. It seems right and necessary, and even incomprehensible, that we have not settled so long the question that this law has basically created to prevent certain tax evasions and things that have happened to me incomprehensiblely in a few years in Slovenia, I hear that most of them are already sitting on the side, I will say, offenders or those who have committed crimes. But it took a long time to find out, and that we will now also sanction by law that it will be impossible to achieve the kind of business that some have been doing. This transparency of collection of taxes or taxation should also be the case with the taxpayers, importers or buyers, and to enable the country to do so more easily. We would like to draw particular attention to the question of so-called motorhomes. It would be right for the Government to examine whether the only price that can be paid is the lobby, Mr. Vizjak, but tell me if it is right to buy a car for an activity, say a ride of a Ford Transit or a Renault, or not know what you are doing with it, to do something like 50,000 or 100,000 kilometers a year, but in an RV is only part of traffic, and even after the statistics they make these cars say 10% kilometers, according to some others. And the part that is intended for housing or tourism, to increase another activity, is taxed at the same rate as that of those who live in this home, to blow up as much CO2 as those who drive in this part. Cooking and so forth can also be a good contribution. I propose that we, however, examine whether it is correct that from the price, because at the end of the day, if there is a van that has complete transport equipment in economic work and is worth 30,000 euros, on the other hand, this platform is 20,000 euros and it is upgraded for 30,000 euro is something else, because it is also intended for other activities, that this part is also taxed on emissions as a base vehicle. When I was told that this seemed to them that this could only be unfair to this work, after all, we want tourism to flourish, that people would use these mobilitys to go for a day two also after Slovenia with these cars, but in the end even if they go anywhere across Europe, 10,000 kilometers a year is this big, but they are taxed, I say, on that part which is the price, so the price is entirely because it is not separate. If this is examined, nothing is wrong, and if not, this will certainly have consequences because they will fall into a higher class, even engines are relatively strong, higher price class, progress in taxation and the basic purpose will not be achieved to collect taxes to behave ecologically and to collect for release, but we will collect a tax on the price of the vehicle, which I believe would be unfair. However, there are manufacturers in Slovenia, if you look from Dolenjska, White Krajina, Prekmurje and so on a number of those who deal with these matters, so it would make sense to examine them. Of course, this will not mean that we would not support the law because of those other things mentioned earlier as a suitable basis for further consideration and will also cooperate constructively later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Luka Juri will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u8	Good-bye! Social Democrats welcome the proposal to amend the Motor Vehicle Tax Act as it contains a number of important innovations, which have also encouraged public debate in recent months. That is also true, for as the human river says, good horses are always smoked. One important change is to improve current tax accounting solutions, which will no longer allow many tax evasions and tax avoidance. The second, even more important, change relates to the way in which the tax on motor vehicles is charged. Thus far, the tax has only been charged on the basis of the value of the vehicle. The higher the value, the higher the tax rate. Now this changes and the tax rate will either be up to 0.5% or 31% or something in between, calculated on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions, i.e. greenhouse pollution caused by a particular vehicle. The proposal to amend the Tax Law on Motor Vehicles undoubtedly means a step forward towards so-called green taxes, where, through taxation, the use of environmentally friendly technologies is encouraged and stimulates the consumption of more wasteful technologies. Following the principle, the polluter pays, where the burden of environmental pollution, which is harmful to the whole community, is to the extent possible transferred to the polluter. The law represents an important achievement at European level and it is powerful to say that if adopted in the form proposed, this novel will represent an excellent example of good practice, which will be able to imitate other countries within and outside the European Union. In these months, however, several concerns could also be heard, mainly at the expense of the report of the high taxation of the largest and warmest polluting vehicles. The idea of the opponents to tax the largest and the most wasteful vehicles is that the sale of large, wasteful luxury vehicles is expected to fall as a result. But this is one of the main purposes of this change of law. By changing the accounting method, we want to change the structure of the cars sold by selling smaller luxury and polluting vehicles. After amending this law, those who care about the environment and decide to buy a more environmentally friendly vehicle will pay less. But those who don't care about the environment, regardless of the greenhouse emissions, climate change, and ultimately don't care about the future, our only planet, let them pay more than they are now. This is true not only from an environmental point of view but also from a moral point of view. It does not surprise us that some merchants do not like change. The fact is that the biggest profits in the sale of vehicles are made in large luxury polluting vehicles. Our message to these traders is that it is time to change the business model and that green policy can become an opportunity. Some well-known manufacturers targeting hybrid and even electric vehicles today have already understood this. At the expense of environmentally friendly production, positive business results have already been recorded. Others will have to adapt to this, or they will, whether they like it or not, have to leave room for other, more advanced companies. Let me remind you that Slovenia will soon have to start paying huge penalties for non-compliance with the Kyoto Agreement, i.e. due to excessive greenhouse gas emissions. And most of these releases are caused by proper traffic. While some wonder whether now is the right time for us to decide on a green tax policy in times of crisis. The answer is clear. Green tax policy is not the right moment, because every moment is the right moment, and we see today that it is actually too late. It is time to change our thinking and move forward. Whether we are Members and Members of Parliament, it will soon be clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u9	Mr Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u10	Dear Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, such a cover-up for environmental protection cannot be supported at the expense of increasing taxes. Under the cover of green tax reform, under cover of environmental protection you want to load the medium layer, this is the layer that buys the mid-range cars and engines. We have previously heard from the Secretary of State that a 10% increase in taxes will be paid to the highest-selling middle-ranking cars. We have no objection to more taxation of luxury, especially of the highest-ranking vehicles, but this is not the essence of this bill. The essence of this bill is to collect more taxes from the sale of motor vehicles. See which reasonable country in Europe or in the world at the time of the economic crisis, when the sale of motorcycles or bicycles with engines fell by 40% when the sale of cars in Slovenia fell by 25% to 30%, increases taxes on these same articles and makes them even less and even the opposite works in terms of reduction, that is to say to reduce sales, not to increase. Countries have introduced subsidies to save us, subsidies for the purchase of motor vehicles in Germany, France and elsewhere saves our jobs in Revoz and many other subcontractors. A number of jobs have been preserved at the expense of subsidies. But not our subsidies, subsidies in European countries. Here you suggest extra taxation of the middle class of cars. Not only that, you suggest taxation of mopeds, these lowest mopeds up to 50 cubic centimeters, when there has been no tax so far, but after that there will be a tax and as a result these retail prices will rise. Where is the green tax reform here, my respects?Oh, my God! This is not a green tax reform, it is only one and only concern for charging the state budget over the medium layer. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would not oppose and welcome the approach to taxation after emissions, but not by the power of the engine. That's good. But why isn't the same logic followed by motor bikes, quadruples, tricycles and the like? Here, however, it is still taxed - not by emissions, because data in the type approval of such vehicles are able to distinguish those parameters that affect pollution and could be a criterion for the level of the tax, not the power of the motor of these vehicles or the wheels of motors, quadricycles, tricycles. According to our assessment, it is unacceptable that at a time when the sector is in crisis when sales have fallen drastically, the most sold segment is additionally taxed, this is the middle segment of motor vehicles as well. From this title, according to the applicant, approximately EUR 20 million of additional funding is expected. It would be logical for those buying in a given segment to be in the ranking of motor vehicles, motorcycles with engines, the highest environmental standard to be treated differently from those buying lower standards in the same ranking. I'm talking about bikes. For motorcycles it doesn't matter whether someone buys an engine that respects environmental standards with the same power or someone buys an engine that doesn't respect environmental standards at all and will be taxed the same. Where is the green tax reform here, my dear? She's gone! Instead of following environmental standards and complying with these standards in the relevant articles, one would then understand what the purpose is. The progressiveness of the scale is also the most radical among all Member States of the European Union, according to experts. When you made a comparison in this law, you have in fact given a set of data, from which it is not even possible to determine whether the new Slovenian taxation is comparable to European taxation. It cannot be because completely other information is given, and as a result I can trust those who have also smothered us with information in these days. The Chamber of Commerce stated that this scale of taxation of motor vehicles is among the most progressive and highest in Europe. And once again, countries that are also "front leaders" in environmental protection, for example, Germany, are introducing subsidies for the purchase of motor vehicles because they want to help industries from the crisis and recession. However, we are also pushing further into difficulties those who unfortunately cannot "touch" at the expense of foreign measures, but we would expect domestic measures. Remember how many people are employed not only in motor vehicles and motorcycles, but also as a result in service activities and a whole range of other accompanying activities. You don't give a shit about these jobs. Apparently, the few 10 million extra tax collected at the expense of the medium layer is significantly higher. It is very important that this proposal of the law does not regulate the transport of environmentally-disputed used vehicles from abroad. He doesn't regulate that. And this is, in my opinion, an environmental problem that is significantly greater than the taxation of a middle-class car that meets all environmental standards. The buyer of such a car will then pay more and this car will be more taxed than, for example, used for an environmentally disputed car from abroad. I cannot judge this law differently than that it is a matter of charging the state budget at the expense of the middle layer and the middle level of cars and new motorists as well. Several tens of thousands of motorists in the Republic of Slovenia will be grateful for this gift of the coalition, under the cover of environmental protection, taking care of the environment. I think it's the right layer to put extra pressure on and look for money, for example, for just voted higher, for example, court salaries and so on. And before that, there was one argument for a home that I fully support. A similar argument is for motorists. The biker has half of a normal driving season, the time he uses his engine. Many motorists use this as an upgrade to their transport under good and favourable weather conditions. There's very little effect on these engines. But it doesn't matter. It is said that their emissions are irrelevant because of this limited time, as they pay the tax on the cubicle or on the power of the engine. Where's the environmental logic here? If you had a formula inside that a motorist would pay for, I don't know, a mile tax and pollution of this engine, then you'd understand that it's drinking water. From this title it does not drink water; it is a charged state budget. There is another very problematic segment of this bill. You are also taxing the economy with this law. All light commercial vehicles are taxed significantly higher than before. Why? Do you think that this is the appropriate segment to fill the state budget? I don't think so. And once again, I'm not talking about not having and not wearing this law even some positive extensions. He's got them. As I said before, the tax base for motor vehicles is a release and not a power, this is a positive extension, including the fact that you wanted to set better conditions for tax evasion control with some segments, is a positive segment. But it's just an extension. Through control, through tax authorities and the implementation of this in nature, this positive extension can also be realized. However, I must say here that the tax administration has always been very inefficient. A number of complaints by individuals concerning these importers and the sale of motor vehicles and motorcycles have been made by both the Ministry and the tax administration, and there has been little or all of these applicants who have done their work legally have failed to do so. If this solution builds on this current lack of regulation, then we welcome it, but it is only a necessary condition, but not a sufficient condition. In summary, with these positive headlines, there are of course so many negative effects in times of economic crisis that, of course, such a proposal cannot be supported. Once again, it is unacceptable to raise tax burdens at a time when other countries, on the contrary, encourage purchases. Many economists also say that the exit from the crisis is to promote consumption, i.e. consumption of the population. The purchase of motor vehicles is one of those segments that can also bring some money. Moreover, those countries that have introduced subsidies for the purchase of motor vehicles have received more money from those countries through this title than they have spent on subsidies. This was demonstrated by the balance sheets of these measures in Germany and other countries. And we think we're going to get something in the budget. All these figures, respected, are based on calculations for 2007 or in the past years, when the conjucture took place and when motor vehicle traffic has developed much more than it is now. Therefore, there will be an additional negative impact by introducing this tax on the market, and, of course, the sales will also be lower and there will not be nearly that much tax in the budget. People will resist, and they won't buy now. The transition periods are also mild - tempered thirsty, the message is bad here and perhaps someone will really buy more now because he knows that he will get even more on his head during the transition period and that a higher tax will have to be paid as a result. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with these coalition forecasts, as well as with the opposition's work to support this law, we certainly do not expect this law to end the parliamentary procedure today. He'll probably move on, so we'll try to fix these things through further examinations. First, the shortcomings associated with the excessive progressiveity of taxation in motor vehicles, then very similar to those of motorcycles, quadricycles, tricycles and not least motorhomes. It is very rude, directly rude of the proposer, that the economy is also burdening, light commercial vehicles and the like through this tax during the economic crisis, when the prime minister and ministers have to walk through factories and explain to people why it is bankruptcy and how it will be better tomorrow, and here we are talking about new taxes for these same people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u11	Dear colleagues. In the Group of Members, we really believe that this kind of debate, as my predecessor's debate was, is the best evidence of the validity of the law that we are considering for the first time today. The fact is that emissions, the issue of CO2 emissions, are an overriding global problem in order to launch a demagogic assessment of how not to limit CO2 emissions by appropriate tax policy, which is the strategic objective of the entire European Union, at this point in time due to the crisis. You know, this crisis demagogy or even consumer demagogy - let's now invest in more car consumption, motor vehicles and so on, maybe it makes sense in those countries that mostly rely on such products, in such industrial industries. It can be clear to me and all of us why Barack Obama, Germany, France, Italy are warming up and trying to block the trend that most European countries are demanding, especially those that are sensitive to industrial environmental behaviour in the coming years. We are faced with two approaches here, everyone is legitimate. The first approach is to subsidise with bonuses of less polluting cars, buy new, more technologically manufactured cars. Another philosophy, which is also advocated by this law, is to use tax policy to bring this same important automotive industry to a higher level of technology. Therefore, promotion through tax policy of those technologies that will significantly reduce and reduce CO2 emissions. That's what this is about. Slovenia is in a position, we can argue that we are not a car force, that these issues are particularly the issue of car trafficking, i.e. traders, the problem of traders. We also have some products directly linked to the automotive industry, but with tax policy we just want to tell the automotive industry that with higher technology, with less burdensome technology, they will be taxed less. And that's the key to this marriage. However, something in these discussions is also supported by us. We think, given that this is the first consideration of the law, that there is still time to think about some aspects that are legitimate, such as bicyclists, motorists, motor vehicles, which are now somewhat discriminatoryly taxed. In fact, we also believe that further discussion is being focused on the possibilities of assessing all motor vehicles at CO2 emissions. The same applies to motorhomes and light commercial vehicles. This dilemma is legitimate and we believe that there is still time for reflection and for appropriate solutions. But let us return for a moment to European policy and to the European attitude towards this issue. Let's move away from this cheap demagogy and see what's really going on in Europe. All Member States of the European Union, as one of the tax policy objectives, refer to environmental protection. In accordance with the EU-level agreement, CO2 emissions limits, which are expected to apply in 2012, relate to 65% of vehicles and to all vehicles by 2015. The proportion of new cars that will have to meet these restrictions will increase in line with the compromise. Thus, the target of reducing emissions to 130 grams of CO2 per kilometer in 2013 was already 75% of new vehicles, in 2014 80%, and a year later all vehicles. This is the strategic objective of the European Union. This is not just a strategic goal of the Slovenian government. Our government is acting exemplaryly, perhaps the Italians, the French, the Germans will essentially try to reduce the pace, the pace of the introduction of this new green tax policy. Of course, they have huge automotive industries, we are mainly dependent on and buy from these industries. This is clear and legitimate, but some countries will speed up this process. If it is among these countries, there is nothing wrong with Slovenia. We have committed ourselves to the coalition treaty, and we also have a clear position on this issue in the programme, and we believe that this will only lead to the rise in the level of technology needed by the automotive industry in order to be less taxed. It's a stimulant for better, for cleaner technology, it's not a restriction on production. This is an innovation stimulus for the technological innovation they need. I don't think it will be necessary, because industry is quick to adapt to these new needs. In a few years, all this demagogy about trying to limit the automotive industry will be a funny memory. It should be noted that the average CO2 emissions of all registered emissions are about 159 grams per kilometre on average. However, the market shares of vehicles according to EU standards by 2012 show that the share of vehicles in the lowest class is up to 130 grams in the discharge class, very modest, unfortunately still very modest. Last year in Slovenia - compared with emissions of up to 130 grams of CO2 emissions per kilometer, only 10% of vehicles were registered, only one tenth. It was mostly registered in a class with emissions from 130 to 160. I admit there's probably my car in this class. And that if I buy a car like this, I will be aware that I will be forced to pay a higher tax if at this time, and I believe that this policy will trigger the necessary innovation at that time, and I will buy the same car in the next generation with lower taxes because the automotive industries will adapt. In Slovenia today it is the most registered in the class with emissions from 130 to 160. However, it is worrying that the proportion of cars that exceed 160 grams is about a quarter, 25% of all cars. In particular, our car culture here is very unorganic, one of the least ecological in Europe. We also have a large car cult, showing a large car, unfortunately, it is part of our mentality, we come from a transition that is quite successful, and it needs to be demonstrated. But from an ecological point of view, it's devastating. Here we need a mental shift, a leap towards greater ecological sensitivity. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support this bill, despite the already expressed concerns that we can share with the opposition. We think that a better chapter should be drawn up concerning engines and other vehicles, which are now, say, slightly discriminated against. However, consideration will also need to be given to the initial proposal in order to take account of the uniform rate for petrol and diesel engines. In the proposal that we now have before us, this single rate is foreseen only for those diesel engines that reach Euro 6 standard. There's more than one view. Some say that this separation between diesel and petrol engines is necessary. On the other hand, this will accelerate and further support the sale of petrol engines. That's where we need to think about it, too. But marriage is basically very good, it comes at the right time. It has nothing to do with the economic crisis, but it has a lot of CO2 emissions. And since we are a member of the European Union, as the European Union seeks to achieve this objective, let us be exemplary. But let us be exemplary in the belief that what we are discussing today and what we want to achieve with this law will actually speed up the transformation, the restructuring of the automotive industry in an ecological sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u13	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! Our parliamentary group will support this law in a basic way because it nevertheless constitutes an improvement of the 1999 law, which has been found to have certain shortcomings. In particular, this novel means the first shift towards taxation for those who pollute the environment. And here we have no doubts about the taxation of all motor vehicles or motor vehicles of all kinds, despite the fact that perhaps the solution itself in the law is not exactly what we would like to see all the taxes in this title come from the amount of emissions. However, the law and solutions offered allow for reconsideration in this direction, and it is not said that an amendment could not be supported during the period of consideration of this law that would solve this problem. It is also particularly important that the law prevents tax evasion, because it is not possible to adopt a sub-theme that the situation that is not being resolved can continue indefinitely, because we know that the budget needs to be filled with something and that, regardless of the crisis, taxes that are not being paid must be covered, but not only those, but they are part of what is supposed to fill the budget gap, so that there is no need to interfere more with the social field than we already are, or anywhere else. That is how this law has a good purpose in its essence, and we support it. We think he's environmentally friendly. The only way is for environmental pollutants to start paying taxes, because otherwise we will not reduce emissions. On the other hand, we must also ask ourselves where we will get the funds to pay the penalty for non-compliance with European agreements in this area, which we will have to pay if we do not limit releases. And I must say that the economy must also be aware of this. We know that the economy is in trouble, but it is also in trouble because of environmentally unfriendly solutions in its technology and in its behaviour, and it is right that it slowly starts to pay the price of its past practices, which were not in line with what needs to be done to preserve our natural environment so that it is possible to survive it. For these reasons and with the possibility that the law will be improved until the end of consideration and adoption, the DeSUS Group is pleased to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! It is true that the existing regime has not prevented tax evasion, which means a significant loss of budgetary resources so far and, of course, unfair competition. The state has done little to detect these tax evasions. It is true that this proposal, as far as tax evasion is concerned, contains appropriate provisions. It provides general relief for large families and disabled persons. It is also true that as far as the rates of taxation are concerned, we estimate that they are absolutely too high. The difference between taxation of the petrol and diesel engines is significantly greater if we know that diesel engines are more environmentally acceptable. Last but not least, the government offers a very fast-prepared law and also deceives when it speaks of the basic purpose of being ecologically comparable and respecting the Kyoto Agreement. That's not true. I want to say why it's not true. The government has made three laws so far. Each proposal contains a higher tax rate. We understand that she was somehow forced to do so, because this is the fastest way to collect taxes, which is also unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party. But it is totally unacceptable for us that the Government wants instead of introducing an environmental tax on trucks, which should have happened because only the biggest polluters, a respected representative of the Government, are not on the phone, listen to what I'm saying to you. But you won't do that because you're afraid of a truck lobby. If we did, all Slovenia would be blocked today. These trucks are the ones that are destroying the roads that we built with our money. We are not smart and wise enough to invoke the Kyoto Agreement and ecological acceptability at that time. The fact that we do not have an ecological tax on trucks, but we are a transitional, transit country, is totally unacceptable, totally unacceptable. And that lobby wins again. The most frequently amended law is the Road Traffic Safety Act. We've reduced their penalties, increased their axle loads, and today we have the situation on roads and highways as we have it. Also because we cannot properly tax what is built with our money. It is totally unacceptable that you have "put out" the old cars that this law does not cover and will be able to continue without any tax obligations. It is even more unacceptable that you are saying that you want to be eco-conscious in essence, while you are forcing us here, that we need a real provision of the law that stipulates that Euro 4 vehicles will increase the rate of tax by 1%. This is what you want to do in 2010. The European Directive lays down a time limit for the introduction of this provision only 1. 1. 2011. So one year after that. Is it not sacrilege, or is it not hypocrisy, that under the cover of the ecological suitability of the Kyoto Agreement you would essentially like to fill a budget one year before the European Directive provides for it? Who do you think you are? Gasoline should be taxed for consumption. The one who drives more, who spends more, pay more. Not just like that. Germany, today it has been said, of course we should be an example, yes, but Germany is giving large subsidies for the purchase of new cars and they are destroying the old by recycling. We will tax the purchase of new cars, affect the middle class and turn all costs, so-called ecological fitness, into those with the least money. This is not acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. Excuse me! When you do what we are charging you to quantitatively tax, to introduce an ecological tax primarily on trucks, to give something to this incentive to individuals to buy a new car with a subsidy from the state budget, we will believe you want to be environmentally appropriate and that you want to follow the provisions of the Kyoto Agreement. As long as you just watch how you fill a hole in the budget, which I believe is very large, because of the great public spending and inadequate social policy, because new jobs are not opening up, in a way that you want to be ecologically comparable and respect agreements that some of us do not, this is a great hypocrisy for us. Because this law is written solely because of budgetary needs, we will not support this law. But it's a shame for you to think of yourself as a socially oriented government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Rozjej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the outset, I would say that I am also convinced that the purpose of this law is indisputable, that the time for its adoption is always as good or that the best time has been too late, as has been said in a presentation of the opinion of the Group of Members. I would hardly agree with the view that time is not right because now it is necessary to encourage consumption and consumption, this is to encourage car purchases in order to bring this out of the crisis. Something like that can only be said by someone who didn’t believe in this crisis a year ago. Now that the crisis has lasted for one year, it would be time for such neo-liberalist concepts of capitalism to change a little. For so many things have changed in the world economy, prominent Nobel laureates explain that things will have to be seen differently in such a way that only the promotion of consumption, especially when it comes to the non-ecological industry, such as the car industry at the moment, can probably not be the way out of the crisis. That would be a very short-sighted opinion. As far as the law is concerned, many of his shortcomings have already been mentioned. I would focus on one that was also mentioned several times. This is the one with regard to two-wheeled single-wheeled vehicles or engines at home. The current proposal discriminates against this type of vehicle. Not only because in Slovenia the automotive season is much shorter than the automotive season. Mainly because the purpose of the law is to tax CO2 emissions. Motor vehicles, however, are those that are less CO2 emitting depending on the cubatura and depending on their mass, because consumption is also lower. It is clear that greater energy is needed to shift the mass. This is primary physics, and this tax could also take place. At the same time, I would say that we have over a million registered cars in Slovenia, and it is motor vehicles, I think about 30,000. It's a small percentage. As far as the impact of the financial law is concerned, there should be no major changes here. However, such discriminatory taxation of engines, which I will describe below, could affect the fact that Slovenian buyers will go for these types of vehicles abroad, where this legislation is different and taxation is the same. For example, for the Pegueot 107 passenger car, with 40 kilowatts of power, 1.4 cubic engines, the manufacturer's declared release is 109 grams of CO2 per litre. The tax on a vehicle like this is supposed to be half a percent. It's a mother vehicle, the ecological one we want there to be as many of them on our roads as possible. A similar strong BMW motor bike, 650 GD Dacar, with 37 kilowatts of power has an average consumption of 3.7 liters and releases 85.6 grams of CO2, and the release tax pays 7%, says 14 times higher, with 21% and a half less discharges. It would be most necessary here to correct the proposal now presented. It was also mentioned that diesel vehicles may be slightly discriminated against in this case. In particular, I would like to mention that in no way does this bill stimulate the purchase of a liquefied gas vehicle, which is the most ecological after release. From a litre of petrol, we usually say, in average combustion we get a little less than 25 grams of CO2 in a litre of diesel is little more than 25 grams, with only 15 grams of CO2 in a litre of liquefied gas. It would suggest promoting environmentally less controversial vehicles using liquid gas. On the spot, it was also pointed out that fuel would be subject to taxation if we actually wanted to tax releases. But it is true, of course, that in the current situation and at the price of fuel as it is in Slovenia, this would not be very productive. However, I am of the opinion that the law, as proposed, is part of the exemption tax solution, because when a vehicle is taxed and the incentive to purchase more environmentally friendly vehicles results in fewer releases. In one part, the law states that it is intended primarily for the taxation of vehicles whose release is more than 110 grams per kilometre, which, of course, can be held for cars, but not for motor vehicles. Similar vehicles, for example, especially mopeds, scooters, those for urban driving, which eventually also help to make traffic in the city running - we ourselves know what the problems of parking in larger cities are. In short, I think it should also be in the country's interest to promote alternative means of transport, and at least engines, scooters and similar things are very welcome in cities. These are, say, particularly discriminated against, about 50 grams of CO2 per litre, and cars twice as many, 110, and all vehicles are taxed. I also understand that due to the specificity of engines, some additional releases in mopeds, scooters and so on are also harmful to the environment. So it would probably be illusional to expect that there will be no taxation for these vehicles at all, although they are less than 110 grams of CO2. However, the tax currently envisaged is not appropriate, in my opinion. I hope that something will change in this bill until the next reading. But the law, as it is now proposed, is a good basis. Of course, I will support him in the first reading and in the second reading, if any improvements are made, with much greater joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We used to have a gas tolar, you probably remember. And this gas toll is supposed to be for maintenance of state roads. But state roads are in ruins today, and none of the things that have accumulated have gone where they should have gone. Today we have a law that is supposed to introduce a new eco-taxation. Previously, the government's representative said it was a green tax reform to respect the Kyoto Agreement. However, when we mention such deep thoughts, we must say that the old cars, which are the most polluters, will not be covered by the sanctions of this law. Moreover, if we take a good look, the government will not encourage you to even buy combined cars called hybrids. Previously, the predecessor spoke of the idea that it would be wise to subsidise, at least at the price of liquefied gas, including this fuel. If we are already talking about the fact that the country is ready as much as one year earlier than the European Directive, to start collecting taxes, they show that all the facts that are in the background of everything before being ecologically appropriate - a green tax reform, as you would call it or anything else - is a desire to fill the mannequin in the budget as soon as possible, which you are looking at with the rebalancing of the rebalancing in ever-increasing numbers. I understand that this is essentially how you want to outflank the Slovenian public, but please do not send such a law to the National Assembly into procedure, because this is not a systemic solution. This is a big scheming, sand-in-the-eye, and the bill will be exposed again to the middle layer of citizens. And hold the bull by the horns where the real problem is. I'm deeply, I'll say, surprised that Mr. Wlačič is not here today. Why doesn't he introduce an environmental tax - I ask again, I've already asked twice today - for trucks? They are the largest contaminants and in fact we are a transit country, a huge number travels through us, including the ecologically disputed cargo that we should essentially have for the protection of national interests - Slovenia is only a watershed area - also diverted to railways, but this is another topic. You don't want to talk about it here either. Above all, more difficult transit cargo should be taxed with a higher rate of so-called organic tax, if you so call it. None of this is happening. Old trucks, mainly from Eastern European countries, can drive unhindered on our roads because we do not have high ecological requirements such as Germany, Italy, Austria and others. It is also interesting that when we talk about how "good this law" is, of course, in quotes, you say that in this way you will help us to be more European comparable. Then why don't we do it on a shorter path than Germany did? Open the budget and let us send a clear message to citizens and citizens that from now on we will subsidise the purchase of a new car with 20, 30, 40% lower purchase price if the old car is destroyed immediately. Here will be the highest result, the biggest contribution to environmental awareness! We will destroy the old cars that are the biggest polluters, and if you do what we ask of you since we've been in this Parliament, and since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia to tax, we have also imposed an ecological tax on trucks, then we have won. You don't have to write such nonsense into marriage. This is essentially a bill at the expense of an incompetent government that makes a mannequin in the budget - of course it exposes the bill to citizens and citizens on behalf of ecology. We don't land, we don't land, we never land. And for what you're doing, you have to be aware that you're doing irreparable damage, because you've released again those who will do the greatest harm to citizens and citizens tomorrow. They're truckers. We have built these roads and they destroy them by essentially carrying heavy loads with the permission of this government. I mentioned earlier that we have changed - the most frequently amended law was the Road Safety Act - that we allow them a greater axle load, even lowering their penalties. And now we've also exempt them from ecological taxation. It's a totally unacceptable fact. If we continue to do so, of course, we will be guilty of living tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, Your Honor. Surely, two reasons are valid, suggesting that the system changes in some way. This is an environmental aspect and another aspect is an aspect of tax evasion. There's definitely some things that need to be changed, some things arranged. In the opinion of the Group, I have already highlighted some comments on this first reading or on this law, which is under first reading. One of the majors seems to me to be the rate of taxation. I have information, I have obtained information that the drafters of this bill had several variants. Apparently, it came to an end because it's in the documents, in the proposal. The option has prevailed, which, from half to the next - that is, from the middle class, including the middle class and in particular further - significantly more taxed by motor vehicles. I quote this, and I have also stressed this earlier, that I am afraid that these covert evasions will continue, or - if they don't - some sort of overlap over what will ultimately result in the evasion. Various leasings take place in other countries. These are the things that must have caused our budget to finally be hit. I also stressed the excessive difference between petrol engines and diesel engines, or that this distinction is only disappearing, if I understand correctly, by the introduction of the Euro 6 engine, which will happen, I don't know when, I don't think anyone will know when it will happen. I have also stressed, and I agree with this, that given that we have many manufacturers and cars in Slovenia, especially car parts, I do not know how many people are employed in this business, but some countries are introducing incentives for the purchase of new motor vehicles. With us, the government has decided that it will be in action - I think it will not be in the spring work. It seems to me in this resolution of the economic situation in Slovenia, that any action in this direction would, of course, be welcome. However, I agree with some of the comments made in the opinions of the parliamentary groups, and I expect the Ministry and the Government to take a thorough look at these comments for motorhomes, motorcycles, commercial vehicles in particular - especially for commercial vehicles and motorcycles and also for motorhomes, and there is certainly a lot of such a case - and that the drafter of the law will take this comment into account to the greatest extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u23	Your Honor! It probably doesn't make sense to talk about the basic objectives of the law, which are listed in the order, and first of all, preventing the possibility of tax evasion is probably too late to change the law, but I hope that this is already resolved. In this consideration, I absolutely agree with the fact that most of the passenger motor vehicles have to be taxed, and there is no way to take any exceptions to the front, since the polluter, regardless of any means of transport, should also pay a price for this. I therefore understand that this progressive taxation, which binds to CO2 emissions, is absolutely acceptable and I still support it. The other thing that convinces me less is progress. The fact that we are now going through a 13% tax rate, which is a maximum of 31. This is, at least at this point, very controversial in terms of comparing the effects that are expected to occur in 2010, when you assume that an additional resource, of course, through this, is expected to occur at 19.4 million euros. So this is what income is supposed to be - bigger, of course. However, I believe that such an assessment is essentially pre-optimistic, even if we look at that this year, in a good half, vehicle traffic has fallen by 23% and is still falling. And right here, where you think you're going to pick up the most, in the middle and higher classes, this traffic is going to fall even more. This is what all trends show, and this is the reality. And if I believe - and I absolutely think so - that all laws must be in some balance, and this law should seek a balance between the environmental, public and economic objectives, here I find this progress and this change of way with some doubt whether it will really be possible to achieve it. I don't think so. Maybe we should look over the planks. Also, what I was talking about earlier is how some other countries in the European Union have been in this, say, 16 which have already taken certain measures and amended legislation in this way. But here we really need to stress that what Germany does in other areas too - they say: if Germany sneezes, Slovenia and another country catch a cold; there is no debate here, it gets the flu. Because the effect - to say again that today we came up with this law for the first time to tax emissions - this data is not accurate. We already have that the payments are exempt, otherwise in reverse, those vehicles that do not reach or exceed 100 grams of CO2 per kilometer transported. This means that we stimulate in reverse, but stimulate, as this is the essence of all of this, if I understand the coyotes, the orientations and all the other things and regimes in the countries and the ecological awareness of the individual who decides to purchase a means of transport. Also, the only logical and meaningful way to distinguish between registered vehicles in Slovenia by now and new ones. I do not know what impact this will have on the modernisation of the rolling stock in Slovenia. Although we are in 8th place in Europe because we have more than a million cars registered, which means an average of 514 cars per thousand population, the average in the EU is 464 cars per thousand population. What has already been said many times today is how to stimulate these new purchases, especially because of the change of cars, or it will not deter people - those who are six, eight years old and do not know how many years old a car that is environmentally unfriendly, which is even dangerous in traffic, is about cars without ABS, without certain things and so on. Let us remember measures in other countries, not just during the economic crisis, but before that. For example, even our neighbor Croatia was a typical example in the 1990s that it completely dropped the tax so that people of old, used, dangerous cars were taken out of traffic and bought new cars. Will this measure encourage the purchase of new, newer ones, even if they are used? Will this measure and this law contribute to this? Will it not be by increasing the cost - for the buyer is one way or another the basic question when deciding whether or not to go into something? Once again, as far as I am concerned, we are going into this progression and we are going through this criterion, but not only through budgeting and some average rate of taxation - it is acceptable. I spoke earlier about motorhomes and failed to explain everything, but above all I heard some reactions and objections and ridicule from some Members. However, if you want to follow the goals and impact of caravaning on rural development and the revenues of tourism providers, then you need to think about it. You know what the structure is and how people move and when they decide to buy an extra trailer or an RV, etc. and what this is intended for. Therefore, I believe that this purpose of the law is basically achieved in order to buy environmentally more acceptable vehicles. But when we talk about motorhomes or caravans or this part, see: when you buy a car, compared to a holiday trailer, we can take a practical look. The trailer is not taxed on this basis. Fasten it to the car you bought in that lower price class and even more environmentally acceptable, but this car uses two to three liters more fuel. Spend it, but because the purchase price is the one that sets you, you have not achieved this goal in this case. But when you buy a home - and it's even more dangerous to draw a trailer, significantly more than a home to have - it's, say, the base price of the platform compared to, now I've looked even more closely at this data, it's about 12 thousand to 25 thousand euros - depending on what it's about - and the retail price of 36,000 euros ahead. Therefore, the added value to this holiday capacity, which has nothing to do with the base platform and with that vehicle, which otherwise costs €60.70 000, is taxed in the same way as the motor vehicle. I think this is wrong and wrong, because if we go to look at what this structure is like, both the prices of the base vehicle and the purpose of the vehicle - I have already said that it doesn't matter whether you buy a platform of Fiat or some other vehicle, which is upgraded with equipment to carry out economic activity or this platform, is an essential difference. Because even at the same price, for the same tax, someone will eventually make a hundred thousand kilometers a year and one ten thousand. Who will now pollute the environment more and who will pay more to buy this vehicle? It's a very simple answer! I think this is where we need to look at these things. I don't mind it being said: okay, don't pay 30, 40, fifty thousand from the final vehicle, like this truck, but pay as much as the platform was worth. However, what you have done for other purposes is not taxed, as is not a taxed trailer that you can fasten to your vehicle and go to your desired destination. The fact that this caravanging has also become one of our strategic documents, one of the important tourist and these matters, does not have to lose word. There are also trends in the world that this mobility of people to move, to go on more and more in a shorter time and so on, here this is undeniably highlighted. I therefore suggest that these things be examined, seen and treated in a different way. I also hope that we will get further clarifications that the part that I'm talking about this balance is whether the expected recovery can really be expected. I remember when we changed the Real Estate Tax Act. In Slovenia we had real estate tax, I think it was 43 or 45% of the tax. No tax was collected because there was another clause ahead; if you invest in buying a house or buying an apartment or adaptation, you are exempt from tax. Later we introduced 2%, traffic has increased incredibly - you know what I'm talking about - traffic has increased, traffic has been higher before, of course, but taxes have not been paid. Everyone said I'd pay 2% to be honest with the country, so that I'd sleep quietly, and so on, I wouldn't look for some bills, invest something, and so on. But that's the other one now. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, well, the country's a mother. There's no debate here. You must be honest with her, and you must also give what is Caesar's, Caesar's, and so on. But what I'm trying to say is what's a better approach and what's something that makes sense is to take it into account. To check if there's a major jump, the severe progression actually hit back. I really don't mind those who buy bigger cars paying more taxes. But slain: and this is a hen that lays golden eggs, as some say, and takes where it is, and is not right. It's not exactly the end either. Because in the end it's all in some proportion, who buys the cheapest, who's middle expensive, and who's the most expensive cars. As it is said, in the first reading, I will support this law, because it seems to me that this part is the only part that we are moving on to tax practically everything or include in this taxation also that engine and the other things that are happening in this area, that we are going to be "magari" first. However, I would not like to see that they would be the most radical, but also in front of others when it comes to these measures, as well as, of course, what is finally written in the last indent, that the law will write more clearly the provisions which have proved to be inaccurate in terms of the purpose of the law when implemented. If we add that up, then the law has to be absolutely supported and I will be in this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, government representatives. With the law we are talking about today, the changes and additions to taxes on motor vehicles, I like it on the ninth page if it solves the problem of 2,200,000 tax evasion. However, I wonder how, despite all this technology, the technology we have could have come to such a large failure. On the 10th page, however, it says that the budget, the 2010-20 million budget, is being charged for 2011 around 30 million after the same sale, and it is quite clear that the Government will come to the National Assembly mainly with laws to fill the budget, that is, by increasing taxes. For several months now it has not come with laws to help create added value and create new jobs and thus, through work - our ancestors knew that without work it had not eaten - and that only through work could they fill the budget. I do not agree with some of today's debaters, I do not understand that even the difference between petrol and diesel engines at the same level of CO2 per gram per kilometre is taxed differently because even diesel engines are cleaner engines. I don't know why we'd make a negative difference here. It was very funny to me today that a large part of the debate took place in the direction of not taxing motorhomes, as if motorhomes were the only rescue plant for our country. I am more convinced that they are more of a rescue plant - and do not tax them - commercial vehicles of various repairers, mechanics, electricians, "tillers" and so on and motorhomes. Economic vehicles are, for sure or exclusively, designed for added value, for production, for the creation of new jobs, for the creation of existence. Autodomes, hand to heart, however, once you have decided to buy it, you have decided to do something that will serve a few days a year, as well as for a yacht, a boat and so on, and this would be a major luxury rather than creating new jobs, creating existence, survival, growth of the economy and so on. Maybe this could sound like a prize question for the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Some are taught around these motorhomes as if they were spoken by directors or directors of Adria Mobili or at least their assistants. So who is it? I don't agree with page 14 myself. We start there with some five, 40 kilowatt engines. You know, cars with 25 kilowatts, those were fiascos, with 40 katrices -- there's no one like that today. I looked here at the catalog of cars I have right here in front of me. Clio 1.6 engines have 82 kilowatts. Colleagues and colleagues! Is it also by the Government of Smuggling to DesSUS? In fact, there is also the largest population, pensioners who will not buy expensive cars. Now they're going to let you pick up or not freeze your pensions, so your cars will tax you so much more for this particular structure, pensioners who can buy a much smaller or middle-class car. Sam [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u27	Mr Pukšič, because it is not whether he has appointed him or not, Mr Petan, but it would have been a habit for you to have been on the business committee at some point. The point is that the previous speaker misinterpreted my arguments from my debate. Of course you are. I'm the only one who talked about it. [[...]] [[The debate from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u28	Please, please. I gave him the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u29	Wrong point, Mr. Puksic. If you don't understand what anyone's saying, you can ask, and you'll get an explanation. But when I talk about it, and here I can tell you that there are at least sixteen producers listed here, I will no longer read, sellers, maintenance and those involved. They also work trailers and motorhomes in Prekmurje. You're not from Prekmurje, but you can't do everything in Destrinik, and you probably never will, but let us operate on accurate data. I'm talking about it being incorrect, and I'm going to read to you once again that you're going to understand that the difference is whether you buy a van on the same basis, so let's say, Ford transit, you're using it for economic activity, and it's taxed the final price, which I'm thinking is 30,000 euros. You buy the platform for 20,000 euros, then upgrade it, install the knowledge and work of workers in the Republic of Slovenia, and this part is taxed at the same rate as the car that drops CO2 into the environment. The trailers, on the other hand, which attach themselves to the rear and cause additional release, are taxed at zero rates because they themselves do not produce or release CO2 into the environment. If you think that this is a lobbyist approach for these manufacturers, traders, maintenance workers and those who buy, after all, who support those people who come to Destrinnik for tourist destinations with automobiles, then think that I am the lobbyist of those who do. And I wish someone would come to your congregation with a motorhome like that, with trailers and the like. But let's be honest and try to make it sustainable and fair for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Richter has the floor. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Besides, I didn't mention anyone by name, but if you just gave someone your word, it was your decision. And since there is no other instrument than a procedural proposal, I must take advantage of it myself and suggest that in such cases, when a person is appointed, he also gives the opportunity to respond, even though he has not done so before. I would just like to say this: if Mr Anderlič, when he had 34 Members, had always cared so much about economic development and entrepreneurship, we would not be in such a mess today as the Slovenian economy is now fighting for motorhomes. Apparently, he recognized himself very quickly in the prize game.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you. Mrs. Richter, you finally have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, it is of course interesting to think about this law, and I think that there will still be a lot of debate in the future, what we want Members of the region from which we come, not least to help the environment. My interest in the bill before us began intensely in June, when I read in the newspaper: Taxed carbon dioxide, strong and dirty cars will be more expensive and cheaper. And if I follow the bill, the material and then the debate, my colleagues have already mentioned today that it is also likely that these objectives should be made in a different order, not least. I welcome the amendment of the law myself, but I believe that there will be changes and additions in the debate, second and third. I would also very much like other departments to be present here in addition to the Ministry of Finance or, I will say, the whole Government, especially the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economy. And then, of course, I would like the objectives of this debate to change in order and update the tax scale by taking into account environmental criteria, then by introducing progressive taxation by increasing the tax rate for motor vehicles with a height increase and lowering to a second place and so on. That is why I believe and I am convinced that this is the first step or part of the preparation of a strategy for, not least, improving our environment. It is no coincidence that Slovenia was warned and reminded this February by the European Commission about excessive border crossings on PM10 particles in the external air and that, of course, what we are talking about here today, which we are also talking about, is the beginning of the preparation of a comprehensive strategy. And for this reason, I must say that it surprises me within the law in the part where it has already been mentioned many times also that we do not think that the power plant is probably 0.5, as in one of the members speaks, taxed. If you ask me, it is pure energy, and not least innovation, which should be encouraged and thought about: [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Yeah, all right, colleague Brada, I'm saying, I think we're gonna have a debate on this. [[...]] My thinking goes in this direction that the old city's cores need to be closed later than before, and not only will I say, bicycles, people on bicycles or on foot, but not least because of tourism, because of development, additional income with tourism, will also allow them access, which can be clean, probably only on electric power, as others know. With the introduction of additional taxes, as we have also heard on motorcycles - I hope we will stay here. In the old Yugoslavia, before 1941, bicycles were also taxed. And given the ever-increasing desire or the hobby of the Slovenians to ride bicycles, I hope that we will stay here as well. For this, too, is to be considered in the future and probably here more for the Minister of Transport. What particularly confuses me and I would like to clarify in the next debate is a relief when it comes to facilitating old-fashioned vehicles. From the previous law, this museum value of vehicles over 30 years now transforms into old-fashioned vehicles, all together, the whole process is governed by a special rule, but here I wonder why. Last but not least, I don't see the true meaning of this type of vehicle, I may be wrong, I may not know it well enough, but in the next reading I would like to know more than that. Whether this is the rest of the past and no one has gone further in this matter or now the old-time vehicles are so interesting that we will also register them for the first time in the Slovenian space, we have more and more who will exercise control over them, because these are vehicles that are not used for every day and have a certain exemption. Perhaps even if the Government has calculated savings or budget additions, what this means for our rolling stock - the Government or the National Assembly, which we know about, what kind of vehicles we do not have in the fleet at last, and it would be good to know that because of the burden or burden of the budget. However, I do not believe there is any indication that the ministries have taken organically clean vehicles into account when purchasing new vehicles, and that we will not least have this in mind and in favour. I believe that the amendment of the law is aimed at pollution, regardless of the engine, so I avoid discussing tax scales or raising or non-increasing. For me, true pollution is essential. You may not be aware of this, but the highway cross means that we have a real highway all over Slovenia that brings this pollution behind us, and some of us don't care what kind of vehicles we have on these roads, especially those that own or that million vehicles that are transported through Slovenia, leave pollution behind. Therefore, particular attention should be paid to real change by placing pollution and reducing pollution at the forefront, and of course at the second stage also by obtaining additional revenue into the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr. Trophynik has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Crossman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good day to you all! Of course, I support this law, which needs to be completed a little bit more, probably, and thought about some of the chapters, but above all, I think that slowly and persistently - not only in our country, but also in Europe, electric cars are coming, cars with smaller releases are coming and slow, but we need to be conscious and start to think that it is likely to be necessary to leave cars that pollute the environment, in particular some, in very large amounts of CO2. These are the slightly cheaper cars that merchants bring from some countries and sell them here at somehow favourable prices. It's all more or less a matter of time. You know, we used to even have a rowdburg in our countries, we used to take these woodburgers to that mix that the motor saw goes to today. And yesterday, when I drove from Kopra to Ljubljana, I met one of these on the highway, it was just a sample of the oldtimer; but, of course, it is necessary to think ecologically and in all of this it is necessary to find the best solutions for the future. As we say, slowly and persistently, we will also get used to driving on electricity, now only partially. This is accepted by younger people. I've been to some of these cars myself, and I think it's right in this future, and we're going to slowly and persistently accept all these new things and start driving on other energy. As I mentioned earlier, I came from Kopra a little easier now along the highway. But when we were still coming down that narrow black-and-black road up there, we met hundreds of trucks. I think it's going to have to be resolved somewhere else. Today in our town we have about 300 such heavy trucks that drive, unfortunately, through the city, because our city is only one construction site and there are working brigades in it. It will be necessary to think carefully and to resolve this issue. Someone has already said something about this subject today, that there will also need to be an update on thinking and getting these heavy vehicles onto the railway. These are complex environmental issues. We can't just talk about the release of one or two cars or three categories of cars right now. It is true that in the end we will focus on the law and also, I hope, accept it, and the fact is that we have opened a wide range of issues that we will have to deal with slowly and persistently. This isn't about politicization and obstruction. I think that we should step together and, as my predecessor Mrs Andreja Richter said, we have already signed some conventions on the Kyoto Agreement in 1992. And 1992 is very far away, and today we just keep going. I don't know if I could say it's too late. I think it's time. But I also recommend to others, not only to the Ministry of Finance, which, in this case, acts as a bill-maker, to really open this range of issues and to start solving freight traffic, but not at the expense of those working in this industry - a lot of people will buy a truck with a lot of problems, with loans, with which they maintain their family and live - we will need to consider and set new criteria that, in addition to what we are talking about today, we will also talk about traffic in trucks, and never at the expense of any of these groups. As I say, I will support this law. However, I expect that we will continue to complete it a little longer, whatever, of course, but not in the way of smartening and wiping out what the Government wants to achieve, but in the appropriate way. Of course, we will also support amendments that are good and appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This Motor Vehicle Tax Act presents to me and probably for most of you a pretty, good example of how our country is aware of and in this sense of responsibility for maintaining a clean environment, adopting laws that are certainly set with their content in order to improve these ecological conditions in our country. Some of you judge it, and I also evaluate it from two global perspectives. Thus, on the one hand, there is the question and the possibility of balancing and filling the state budget, i.e. from this public financial point of view, where not least the fallout of these tax evasions also falls. However, when we give this argument further arguments regarding the implementation of the Kyoto Agreement and all the binding documents that our country has in order to improve the environmental situation, to improve climate change and to reduce all negative climate change, then I personally prefer this environmental aspect far ahead of this public financial aspect. This seems to me to be of great importance and that is why this law is probably one of the first documents to contribute in a concrete way to the improvement of these conditions. Of course, there are a lot of questions raised by the law, and we are likely to get answers to all these questions in the debate. However, it is important to see that somehow it is our standard and that our values, the values of Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens are such that, in fact, without a car, no one can; that the apartments we are building - one apartment requires as many as two parking spaces, so we are going in a slightly different direction as the developed countries, European countries, where instead of parking places they are building bicycles and wherever possible people are using more environmentally friendly means. In this context, it is also a matter of course that this law itself encourages thinking in this direction about how to change these values in the future, how to change these standards in the future, and in this package it certainly goes on to mention public transport means, well-organised and modernised public transport means which could be useful and likely to be less cars, and thus less pollution. Today, my colleague Pukšič mentioned a little about our part of the population, which our client is most committed to, these are pensioners. Of course, the law will not make pensioners very ill by raising taxes on higher-class cars. Pensioners do not have enough money to buy expensive cars at this time, but he will, of course, intervene with pensioners in this work, which deals with additional taxation, environmental taxation on motor bikes and low-quality cars. However, this is no different than it is, so this law, as it is, will be supported in this regard. It is also a matter of thinking here in the context of public transport, which is mainly by those provinces, those parts of Slovenia, where public transport is not regulated as elsewhere. So, say, Koroška, which does not have a rail network that is connected to the road network and road transport. Certainly this law is somehow discriminatory in the sense that in Koroška, where we do not have a choice in public transport to benefit from rail or other goods, we are forced to benefit from road transport and thus pay this additional tax. This is certainly a good intervention and a good example of a green tax reform that needs to be welcomed. But as I said before, the marriage itself has not yet given all the answers to the question. Here, too, it was said that the number of cars sold in Slovenia is decreasing that it has decreased dramatically. Does this mean that our citizens and citizens will benefit from an old fleet that certainly pollutes the environment much more than the new one? And to what extent will this law affect our citizens and citizens in the old fleet? Will there be any possibility that they will still choose to purchase new, more modern cars that will be less polluting? Of course, we have no influence on the automotive industry, of course we do not have an impact on the fact that other national automotive companies grant subsidies for the purchase of cars. We'd probably give them, too, if there was a chance. Probably to grant a subsidy for the purchase of more environmentally friendly cars. But we can't do that. However, it would certainly be necessary to give something more or perhaps more to public transport, passenger and freight traffic, as we know that our road network is heavily burdened and will simply no longer allow any additional burden. All is well on the way to this law by further clarifications and further interpretations of this law until the end of the debate. We support him alone and the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr. Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. Taking care of the environment by progressive taxation and preventing the possibility of chain tax evasion is, in my opinion, one of the basic guidelines of this law or at least that is how I understand it. The law has several other objectives, but I think they are more technical in nature, such as records and some other things. I therefore support such a law and approach to the objectives set. Data on air pollution and dust particles are at risk, especially in cities. Motor vehicles of all types are certainly among the main or at least major pollutants. Environmental concerns are kind of backed up. That is why I am so much more pleased that the two ministries, both environmental and financial, have decided to draw up a common tax law that will at least bind to environmental pollution in CO2 emissions per kilometre, and that it will also be possible to achieve environmental pollution reduction targets with a particular progressive tax scale. In order to achieve this fully, further discussions will be needed, particularly with manufacturers and also traders who are extremely familiar with the automotive industry and their future development. Let us be aware that the tax change is relatively large. The previous taxation was progressive and linked to the value of the car from 1 to 13%. The highest tax on motor vehicles was paid by cars with a price of more than SIT 6 million, converted into today's currency, about EUR 25,000. In the bill, the highest tax rate for petrol engines is now 28% - 15% higher - and for diesel vehicles 31% or 18% higher. However, additional taxes are provided for environmentally impaired vehicles. Whether these ratios are correctly set in the material is not sufficiently explained. From car dealers, there are also warnings from Slovenian manufacturers mainly in this direction that tax burdens need to be more focused on the levels of pollution and the standard offered by engines of the Euro3, 4, 5 or 6 standard, which is a generation of engines of the future that is now emerging and is rapidly evolving, but is not yet on sale. Europe has set standards and engine and car manufacturers must respect them. We have focused on reducing the negative impact on the environment and reducing the differences between petrol and diesel engines, of course, as regards environmental pollution. The law itself provides that when the generation of euro6 engines is in fact equalising the tax rate. Some also point us out that this equation is already relatively close to the euro5, the question of dust particles and certain filters, which, of course, is not particularly explained in the material, and this impact of the environment and this difference between diesel and petrol engines would also make sense to explain a little better. I will not propose new tax rates, I just want to point out that tax relations must be aligned with the basic purpose of the law, which is to pay for pollution, without which the engine uses the vehicle. I think it would make sense for diesel vehicles to add at least one gram per kilometre to the law's explanation of dust particles according to EU standards. In this way, it is likely that they could explain in a slightly better way and in particular understandably why the difference between petrol engines and diesel engines is. However, we could add a scale in Eurostandards for vehicles, and in addition, we would tax vehicles that have an extremely low environmental standard with an annual ecological tax and thus encourage people to trade environmentally-friendly cars for more environmentally-friendly cars. This tax, however, would create a specific fund to encourage the purchase of smaller, environmentally acceptable vehicles. I think this would actually be the right move: on the one hand, of course, we would be creating a lot of money, which some of the invitations might also offer. I did not speak on purpose about the tax revenues to be generated by such a change in the tax on motor vehicles. I estimate that this was not a basic guide, except for that part of the amendments to the law that would prevent various tax evasion and chain evasion to these taxes. I think that's a good catch. The merchants also commended this part of the law in the interview. I propose to the law's proponents to reconsider whether it makes even more sense to tax vehicles that use electricity for their energy. It is true that 0.5% is extremely small, but the real incentive would be, in my opinion, a level 0. These cars are now in development, they are generally more expensive and, if possible, I think it would not be good to tax them, even with symbolic 0.5%. It would also make sense to add another rate, that is between 0 and 100, or to start with, I don't know, 90 or 100 grams of CO2 per kilometer, and in this way actually encourage more environmentally acceptable vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u40	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Motor Vehicle Tax Act imposes taxes on CO2 emissions, in short, after pollution of the environment. Of course, I wonder what is wrong with cars of an older date whose roads are actually flooded. I don't think you're going to exempt them, maybe for now, but they're going to get theirs soon. There will certainly be changes in purchasing power and interest in those cars that will have to be paid for over-emissions. But they were also now in that category of cars that were also available for the lower and middle layers. It is right to look at and take measures to protect nature and cleaner air, but at the expense of the poor and the economy, I do not think this is the best. I do not believe that now is the right time for these taxes, but we know that this will reduce the interest of the middle class in buying cheaper cars, because the higher class already has this in place. I think they'll pay you less. Other countries are subsidising car purchases and we will also tax extras in order to fill the budget hole. Of course, I wonder what happens to the biggest polluters, trucks, especially strangers who drive our roads and smell like fog sometimes. No, no, no. We will tax our people, although now is not the time and interest is not for a cleaner environment as some would like to present the matter. It's absolutely about money. I mean, it's more of a financial thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u42	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. She's not here. Mr. Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I have read the basic objectives of the proposed law, I must say that I only agree with the fact that the tax scale is progressive, taking into account environmental criteria. Otherwise, I could not get rid of the feeling that the goal is not to speed up the sale of new, environmentally friendly vehicles, which is, by the way, the priority of all the advanced governments in the world, but is to fill the budget hole, in my opinion, primarily the medium layer on the shoulders. That's mostly what I think of small entrepreneurs. Let us say that this patching or filling of the budget is justifiable. In my opinion, with such a move, this change will not achieve this and will have the effect that this measure will have, in my opinion, negligible. Due to excessively high taxes, most motor vehicles will be irritable. And from that, there's going to be a smaller sale. And given that crisis times are today, it has already fallen so heavily that the situation will only worsen. The budget revenues will also be lower and no higher than the applicant expects in this proposal. As I said, they will be affected by this amendment of the law if it is adopted, especially by small entrepreneurs, from carriers to different repairers to craftsmen and builders to farmers, if you will. The government, with such a move in these times of crisis, does not promote the sale of cars, but literally inhibits economic activity. The result, in my view, will be an even more catastrophic fall in GDP and, as a result, an even smaller budget deficit. It is also incomprehensible that motor bicycles and motorcycles are being retaxed on a new basis, which will again lead to the decline of sales of these bicycles. We know that motorcycles are especially suitable for driving around city centres, which consequently reduces the pressure and also causes less harmful releases. It is also interesting that electric or hybrid cars, including electric-powered cars, will be taxed in the same way as petrol-powered vehicles. Once again, the fact that this amendment will, if adopted, affect the most dynamic part of the economy, small entrepreneurs, carriers, van carriers, semi-trailers and so on, used by different S.p.s. and craftsmen to carry out their activities, as well as farmers. In my opinion, the law will have more negative than positive effects, so I cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u44	Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good day to all in the hall. I must say that I regard this law as the first step towards the desired tax policy, which we have also committed to in the programme for this mandate period, which Slovenia, as a country, has committed itself to in the previous EU mandate, even under the Kyoto Agreement. I think that the steps we are taking towards green tax policy and green public procurement are very small and slow. That this law has come to the fore is due, in particular, to some Members. Thank them for that. Even though it is actually a step that could be taken with significantly more important steps. One of these is certainly an air pollution charge for motor fuels, referred to as diesel, petrol and gas, as fuel. Why? Because the polluter principle is paid the most effectively in this tax or in this tax. Since the one who drives a lot also pollutes a lot and should pay a lot more to do so, it is said that he should pay a tax for every litre of fuel he consumes, no fuel at all. So, can we ask ourselves, what about electric vehicles? The fact is that a large majority of electricity is produced in a less harmful way as regards the environment, such as direct use of gas, petrol and diesel fuel. I hope we get to that very soon. When the situation is slightly better, then all trucks would also be properly taxed, green taxation, if we can say, because, of course, their consumption and thus emissions are much higher per unit, on the vehicle when it is in the case of individuals. The miles the trucks make are, of course, suitable for this in much larger quantities than in passenger vehicles with rare exceptions. I think the combination of a progressive scale in the relationship between carbon dioxide emissions and dust particulate emissions is the right solution. Whether this is determined by Euro 3-6 or maybe even 7 or related to emission indications and the addition to dust particulate emissions in diesel engines is, of course, a matter of discussion. I think that the attempt of this solution is good, I think it is good to adopt the law as soon as possible and at the same time take the following steps. This is burdened on an annual basis, by allowing annual measurements of emissions of both dust particles and carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and other emissions caused by cars and other motor vehicles and by binding a road tax on this. I am convinced that, in particular, annual road charges that would be progressive, given the emissions currently measured, would force the owners of motor vehicles to carry out interventions on the existing engine that would significantly reduce emissions, in particular emissions of dust particles, which could be reduced by the installation of individual filters, which would otherwise reduce the efficiency of the engine, but which is certainly a positive effect of the filter so that the environmental burden would be so low. However, I must agree with those who are considering that there should be a zero rate of taxation in those vehicles which are well below the limit defined as the minimum limit for paying the tax of 0,5. In this case, I think the State should subsidise even the purchase of this vehicle, not tax it. And I have to say that I also do not understand where those debaters who mentioned this see that this law is directed at poor people. This is absolutely not true because the vast majority of lower-priority cars have lower carbon dioxide emissions than those in the higher-priced class, especially elephant roadsters and similar things that release more than 200 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer. I think that, in particular, these discussions in connection with pensions and low-wage workers have been depressed and once again demagogic and politicised, which we are already accustomed to in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u46	Mr. Damian Perne has the floor. He's not here. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State and all present. Of course, we can have different views when amending legislation and understanding legislative amendments. On the one hand, we want to become ecologically conscious, we want to be clean and unspoiled, and we want to breathe fresh air, and on the other hand, we do not almost imagine the pace of life of today’s day driving by car, the fact that we want to get by car almost to the door, whether it is at work, shop or elsewhere. Some of today’s appearances of colleagues were demagogous, populist. Above all, colleagues from the opposition, perhaps they did not understand some things exactly as they wished, or perhaps even with an obvious view. It is right that representatives of the government meet with the management and employees of a company that has problems, such as in Mura today. Unfortunately, it is a problem of a longer period than the time of one year and the mandate of this government and of today's times of economic and financial crisis. For example, if we look at the Mure case, perhaps in 2006, when the then government was aware of the problem and received documentation of the impossible situation of Mura, it might have acted, but unfortunately no such action has been taken, as colleagues say, some have repeatedly pointed out - at any session or committee - "which would have been taken". It has repeatedly been emphasized "which would have caught that there would have been no cramp" and so on. This has been said many times, but also in Mura, unfortunately, at a time of high economic growth and also high inflows to the state budget has not been resolved. The voters and voters who elected us have also entrusted us with responsibility and mission, and they expect us to have every impact on the environment in adopting legislative changes. However, I very much welcome the fact, as has been said many times, that we are on our way to the green environment by changing the so-called green laws, i.e. in terms of ecological awareness. However, there is still a need for serious consideration if this law is to be amended. Therefore, I also welcome the fact that we have taken a step forward to come to this proposal, but on the other hand, it is also necessary to think of those who certainly do not belong to those who today face what to put in a pot or how to spend a month, those who can afford a bigger vehicle than might be necessary. Therefore, they also pollute the environment to a greater extent than is right, and they certainly do not pay enough for it. I also welcome all those who have already decided to take an important step that we will still have to decide on and consider driving such vehicles that will not pollute the environment. On the other hand, another point of interest is the fact that we have been talking about a lot lately. If I take the case from the environment, where I come from. For example, Revoz employs people from the area of the Lower-Belko-Posavina pool, which on the one hand significantly affects and ensures the employment of more than ten thousand people from all of Slovenia, which are in any way related to the company and are producers or business partners with this large automotive industry in Slovenia, by producing spare parts and so on. A drastic change in legislation could change business decisions, probably not just this manufacturer in New Town, who manufactures Clio vehicles, but their company, which has this production in Slovenia. But it is right to think, as someone said - probably those who in the local environment do not feel so much and are not so connected to the automotive industry or the production of car trailers or motorhomes, somehow you don't think about it that much. But some of us think about it so much more because people, neighbors, relatives work there. So any drastic change would mean that these people would lose their jobs. That is why I believe that people would ask us first whether we have thought about this change, including the consequences of such a change. Of course, it is also right to think that companies that are small, medium-sized, which today have, say, 10 years old and more old light commercial vehicles, which also pollute the environment to a greater extent today, besides trucks from countries that come from other countries and drive on our roads and also heavily pollute the environment, but because of the increase in taxes and thus, to a lesser extent, the desire to switch vehicles also means medium and small companies that would trade their fleet mainly for business activities will not be decided. Therefore, we should consider whether to stimulate these companies from the point of view of tax legislation by replacing a vehicle which is strictly and strictly intended for business activity and, on the other hand, we must also take into account, to a large extent, the ecological moment and the dimension of pollution and CO2 emissions into the environment. Of course, in Slovenia there are at least a thousand people employed as new car salesmen, as maintenance workers, mechanics in service activities. Any tax change, together with the crisis, will also bring a reduced need not only for the number of vehicles sold but also a reduced need for the number of employees. The emissions of harmful gases into the environment, as we have already said many times today, must also work more effectively than we have done in the past. At this year's well-known prestigious car salon in Frankfurt, I also noticed that it was felt that car manufacturers were making great efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. This is also what Renault, who owns his own factory in Slovenia, also presented a range of vehicles without discharges, i.e. electric vehicles that were presented. However, no matter what, I myself will support the amendment of the legislation on taxation on motor vehicles at first reading, but I will also support any change in the direction of any proposed amendments, which will to some extent include further proposals, opinions or possible changes for all those who have stressed some other circumstances today. I think it is right that we are broad in all these thoughts and debates. On the one hand, we do not forget the environmental aspect, environmental awareness, on the other hand, all moments of tax legislation and possible opportunities, as well as tax rates and certain possible proposals, which we have not fully processed here. But we must not forget how important it is today that people have jobs, jobs. That we do not face from day to day, both the Government and we, that we will look at the sad people, the concerned people who have lost their jobs today, or perhaps fear for their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u48	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The devil is when financiers go to ecology and turn new taxes into an ecological cellophane, as we heard a statement from one of our colleagues days ago. It seems that in this government ministers are just competing, who will invent some new tax that will be more absurd. Certainly, this tax, which will result in a whole bunch of administrations, will not be able to fill the budget gap. And it might be better to recover EUR 200 million, which are outstanding debts to tax administration by legal entities. The recorder even has EUR 14 million in debt. If we are to go into ecology, if we are to improve the ecological situation, we cannot go beyond frightening facts. A recent survey showed that only 14% of the population of Slovenia are already using energy efficient devices. Whether it's a savings light bulb or household appliances. If we're going to go green, there's a more open area here. The second fact is, of course, that traffic is not the biggest polluter. According to European Union studies, emissions from passenger transport account for 14% and 3% of air transport contributions, which is why they have also been included under the latest directives in the emissions trading scheme. It is difficult to tax our citizens who buy cars with us if Slovenia is a transit country. 14% of CO2 is definitely contributed by vehicles in transit, the already mentioned strong freight traffic. And also dropping about 120 grams on a transported kilometer can mean in the construction of the car, that then there will be a lot more of these fine dust particles, so called PM-10 or even more fine PM-2,5. We cannot help but say that Slovenia will certainly not pay EUR 20 million a year for non-executing the coyote because there is no such share of transport involved. Above all, they influence that we are an energy waste country, that we are energy inefficient, that our energy generation system is obsolete and wasteful. The measure in the transport sector is just like catching drops of water, and the ocean would remain unexploited. And in the country where we're going to build the Block6, the thermal power plant Šostjanj, against which there are no reservations, the reservations are against its increased capacity by 25%, and the technology that is purely from imports is also questionable, and we are ignoring the chain of lower power plants in the lower Sava, where we would work exclusively by domestic producers and cover the energy needs so that we do not even talk about alternative sources if we are already going green policy. But if we include tax and budget holes in green policy, then that's another story. The result will certainly be the fall of long-term car sales. For the beginning of the sales jump, because people are going to be scared of a new tax. We experienced this in some of the previous governments when the threat was higher and there was a big jump in car sales. In fact, this government will, I hope, continue to experience this dive in sales in the coming years. Nevertheless, Slovenian companies will be very grateful for this decline in sales. Yesterday I came to know that some cars are high-ranking, middle-class, up to one third of them are made from parts produced in Slovenia. The start-up of the automotive industry, in particular as a result of measures, is precisely the opposite in Western European countries when subsidies promote the sale of cars, not with additional taxes. The result is that these factory with 32, 36-hour workers, from forced collective vacations in the autumn, again began with full force. If I mention just a few. The most demanding parts are infused in Unite, the block of engine and similar parts, and in the subsidiaries of Uniteha are less difficult parts. A large part of the car is made in Slovenia. It is very possible that it is worn in Sava Tires tyres, coatings and interior equipment Prevent, electronics Iskra and autoelectrics and so on. Of course, this law will also be very grateful to all Slovenian manufacturers, led by Revoz, and today by Adrie Mobil's already mentioned cars. I think we received a letter from their administration. Finally, if I'm already at Adria Mobil, I'm not going to discuss the usefulness and usefulness of motorhomes, despite having some relatives in this company, some acquaintances and friends, unlike some colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u50	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik, he's not here. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. When I looked at the convening of this meeting of the National Assembly, the points included in this call I thought that we were about a year or two earlier to write in 2007, that there is a conjuncture in this country, that there is no economic crisis, that there are no problems. None of the regulations proposed by the Government or the coalition at this meeting of the National Assembly are of an anti-crisis nature. Not one. It's like we're in another time, gentlemen. And worse! But there are two points in the session that are going to be cross-acting. They're going to deepen the crisis. And this law that we are considering today must be one of those. Additional taxation of motor vehicles, non-luxury bikes, which are some basic goods and the necessity of everyone driving to work today or using a car for work is certainly a cross-cutting measure. It seems to be exacerbating the crisis. And here I agree with my colleagues who have pointed out the need for a coordinated treatment through a multifaceted approach to this proposal. There's almost a fiscal one. The government is counting on more taxes from this address. The second prism, the second view is ecological. It is true that environmentally more problematic vehicles and engines are more taxed. That's right. But we must not, respectably, ignore completely the economic, economic aspect of this proposal in order to reduce demand. Any incentive, any tax rise and consequent promotion of motor vehicles and motorcycles contributes to the decline in demand for this, thus reducing the traffic of many living on it. Slovenian automotive industry - the automotive cluster employs a huge number of Slovenian workers and workers. I will not repeat to you that they have addressed all the parliamentary groups and illustrated the negative consequences of this proposal. Leave the opposition's opinion alone, but we must not ignore their opinion. You probably got a letter from Revoz, got other letters, what it all says. Are they hailing this regulation? No, he's not welcome. And the government, at least, should come before the Members with a different proposal, not that we will now, as I see from your discussions, correct this proposal and eventually send it to an unrecognizable form. That's not right. I really don't understand that Slovenia has gone this way. Yes, it is true that when Germany sneezes, Slovenia gets a cold, because it is a major influence and therefore their positive action cannot destroy even the worst measures of the Slovenian government, their subsidies for the purchase of motor vehicles and subsidies from other countries cannot spoil bad decisions or they cannot completely spoil the mood despite the bad decisions of our government. And that's what it's about, it says, we'll be taxed, they'll be burdened because they're in charge, we'll go through anyway. But, Your Honor, this is the wrong policy, believe me, this is the wrong policy. And most disturbing is this green coloring, which I think is the key to this fiscal moment. This one, Madam Secretary of State, will go ahead and you'll see. Progression will fall, the coalition Members have already announced it, it is likely that there will be more exceptions than not, because the different lobbying, the autodomes and so on will bring their own, and in the end it will be seized of this minus for the budget. And you'll see in the end that you won't do anything. Just as you once proposed a law on income tax or I don't know what and then with various innovations in Parliament, there was a catastrophic solution. That is why I believe that this law must be rejected and come to Parliament with a more coordinated solution. There's also one contradiction. If it is true that the tax is based on this ecological attitude, the greenness of this proposal, then we could make a financial neutral proposal that would tax those who are more polluting and substantially fewer those who are less polluting. This would compensate for the positive and negative effects. Then you might say yes, but this is really a step in this direction. However, we can read that it is a large financial plus, which is not so big as to contribute in any way to the resolution of the financial difficulties that have arisen. Progress, sorry, up to 35%, is making a significant increase for the highest, I find unacceptable. In the position of the Group of Members, I did not mention another paradox, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State, who has enough time, to explain it to me. The difference between petrol engines and diesels is stated by the Government in the material, in the law itself, due to additional negative effects in other pollutants on the environment in diesel engines. That's not just the exhaust, but there are other additional pollutants in diesel engines. I'm asking the Secretary of State what their effects are and what they are. So which of these additional pollutants are, I don't know, I'd like to know at least three or five. What are the effects of these additional pollutants? Is this difference between diesel and petrol engines reasonably achieved? Why is such a difference in these percentages? However, it is completely pointless, in my opinion, that the proposed taxation of motor bikes and motorcycles by force. Power was never, and never was, an appropriate feature that would indicate the environmental niceness or unkindness of the engine. There are other characteristics and other indicators, such as NOx or carbon monoxide emissions or other indicators specified in the approval. Why didn't you - this is the second question - in quadricycles and tricycles and motors, take into account these indicators, which are much closer to some transboundary dimension of pollution than the power of the engine? You're focused here on the power of the engine and it's completely over. I did not find out in this proposal, but I ask you what you will do with this so-called black imports. In my opinion, the basic intention of this law should be that the tax is very disproportionate to pollution and also applies to all imported engines, cars that are actually black-and-black, especially black-imported engines and cars. This segment has been completely released from my assessment. You would expect that this law will also result in less imported bad cars, that is to say those cars that pollute, come to Slovenia and that more will be sold environmentally friendly cars, all classes, in Slovenia. I would like to know what provisions follow this intention through the law. Once again, I think it is unacceptable, unacceptable in principle, to introduce new taxes during the economic crisis or to increase these taxes, thereby reducing demand and, consequently, consumption in this important segment. We, if you remember, proposed a time ago, months ago, a law that went in the opposite direction of the one that introduced subsidies in the purchase of a new car. And you obviously care little about the consequences that this law will have on employees in the Slovenian automotive industry, which are indirectly very dependent on demand, even in Slovenia, and you care very little about everyone who participates in the sales chain. They're not just merchants, they're also repairmen and others. Finally, once again, for a variety of craftsmen, a small company in Slovenia can be a vehicle, a van, anything related, a basic asset, with which it can work and without it. Imagine a builder without a light truck or, I don't know, a fencer or anyone, a craftsman in short. You've also encouraged this business in the future. And I don't really see any reason to support this marriage and to even deal with that bad purpose behind it. I think that's a bad idea. It is with extra taxes to patch up what is spent excessively at every step. One of the other divisive laws was passed yesterday, this unfortunate law, linked to judicial wages. And I don't know when you're gonna stop raising taxes in this country?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u52	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's the case that after my colleague Vissiak, I have my word again. This time, even with the privilege of polynomialization. But I listened very carefully to what Comrade Visjak was saying, and I must say that I share a number of grades with him. But the mixture of critical assessments in this law is one that once again dominates the demagogic approach. My colleague Visjak is talking about the damage that this law and this tax were supposed to cause during the economic crisis. In fact, in the long run, we can probably count on the reduction of sold cars, but this reduction also follows the hypothetical accounts of the Section for Personal Motor Vehicles in the Chamber of Commerce, and the decline in sales would not be such as to effectively jeopardise the automotive industry. The very philosophy of vouchers, subsidies to accelerate car sales, is very relative. What the SDS has proposed, 1,000 Euros for the purchase of a new, environmentally less controversial car, does not mean anything, compared with the offers already offered by car houses. The possibilities of easy car shopping are already very high today. Tomorrow, too, due to this tax, we can expect even more flexibility in sales and even greater efforts by traders and car houses to sell as many cars as possible. At the same time, we would in particular achieve greater efforts by the automotive industry to adapt to the new standards required. And that's the point. This is a key objective of the whole legislation that uses the tax policy to redirect, to restructure the technological levels of the automotive industry. And I'm saying it again. That's not our fly. This is not a whim of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But this is a duty that stems from the strategic objectives of the European Union. All Member States of the European Union are on this path. We understand that some try to defend themselves by trying to be late in meeting these requirements. But the fact is that by 2015 all cars will have the right technology, so it's only a matter of five, six years. This restructuring must be accelerated during this period. And this will also happen past parliaments, it will happen faster because governments will be forced to influence this by tax policy. And if Slovenia is among the most exemplary and consistently implementing such a legal policy, there is nothing wrong with it. We will be among the countries that will be able to request a full member of the European Union and will demand that what Comrade Vizjak has announced can happen - that we will import the disputed cars at a cheaper offer than at home. Of course. That could happen. And I think that's just the first step to being legitimately required to prevent it. Also with tax policy. The one who wants to buy a more controversial car will have to pay for it. Like industries with larger emissions, they pay. There are a whole range of possible procedures that will be possible when we have clean accounts in our own legislation. The acceleration of car sales, consumption and so on - sounds good for those who want to, and we want to, overcome this economic crisis. Long-term, and globally speaking, it's devastating. We know that. We need to imagine an economic and market system that will not rely on uncontrolled, steadily increasing consumption. And when the Chinese demand - legitimately - the same level of consumption that we have as the Americans do, what will happen to this world? Are we even asking ourselves that question? And no one knows. But the Chinese are about to demand it, they're already demanding it. And thank God, it is the Chinese and other Asian actors who are offering us alternatives that will sooner than later be more ecological and will also speed up the restructuring of the European automotive industry. I'm telling you again. There's a lot of access here. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken the path home to some environmentally-aware European countries. The nicest and easiest and, let's say that this is some line of least resistance, which, understandably, exploits the opposition, is to act demogosically, offer bonuses, a thousand euros per car from the state treasury. And now I'm gonna turn it around. You would just share money, public money, for buying a middle-class car, with everything that's going on in Mura and Gorenje! Does that seem responsible to you? We can talk about this, but once we provide the source that we can also think about such subsidies, in a reasonable combination between taxation and possible subsidies. When we have this source, when we do not burden the current public treasury, we will also be able to talk about this step and it will be significantly less demagogic. It is not true that the coalition will destroy this bill. We're only at first reading. We ordered some dilemmas, and I think these dilemmas are justified, and so have you, but you have highlighted them in the context of eliminating the debate, destroying the thinking of the law itself. You'd like to stop everything. And you act like every right in the world, taxes are something demonic, let's relax everything. It is not clear what the country can survive from and how we will ensure social transfers, how we will provide subsidies for businesses if we destroy tax policy. It's nice, it's nice to prevent the government from paying taxes to ensure the normal functioning of the country, including the economy and the social. It's nice to offer money like that when you're sitting in the opposition. You were in the government. You haven't done everything you've been proposing and defending right now when you were in power. I mean, I understand, and I'm not mad at this station for the biggest opposition party, but let's be serious. It's about ecology, it's about future generations, it's not just about us, it's not just about me, it's probably gonna pay me something more when I buy a new car, or maybe not. A few years from now, the offer is likely to allow me to buy a better car at the same price, an environmentally less controversial car. I think this tax policy is going this way. If we don't do anything and say, okay, nothing, let's just give subsidies, those thousands of euros in subsidies, with all the discounts they offer, and even with the credits offered by car houses, it doesn't really mean anything. And it would not affect how the relevant tax policy affects this issue. Let's not get carried away, we're serious, if you have, if the opposition is going to submit some good amendments, we can agree, and for some amendments, I believe that we will also find a common language. But the basis of this law is not to break it already.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u54	Mr. Mag. The viscous, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u55	Dear Vice President. I've been named a few times. But most of all, I was disturbed by the fact that I was, in fact, condemned to demagogic performances. I will also read you a letter or an extract from a letter from one of the directors of an important Slovenian car company. Don't say it's our demagogy. This was written by someone who knows the matter and wrote the following. Such low CO2 emissions limits are said to be such a high tax for such small CO2 that only a small number of European countries do not have their own car production. So only those who care little about their industry have gone so radically. In addition, most countries also have subsidies. Even more absurd is the fact that taxation, although the lowest, in Slovenia is also provided for vehicles without discharges, such as electric vehicles, for which very high financial incentives are envisaged in other countries. That's what we have on the table. But that's not my opinion. This is an opinion that all Members of Parliament have received. Don't judge me for demagogies. Condemn this gentleman who wrote this. I'm talking about his visions because he knows this very well. And there was something else that made me stop by. You were talking about Slovenia being an example of being "front leaders" in this area. Do you know where we have been, and how this has had a disastrous impact on the Slovenian economy or even the hospitality? HACCP system. At HACCP we wanted to be the most excellent in terms of respect for hygiene in guest restaurants and everywhere. But we've made our people uncompetitive. We did the damage because we wanted to be an example. And don't do any harm because you want to be an example here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u56	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Franci Kek? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Marriage is supposed to have good intentions. The only right thing to do is to pay, of course, the polluter. I also agree with those who say that it is never the right time for such a law, especially in these times of crisis, when it is necessary to be very careful and restrictive with the new burdens of people and also the economy. If the bill is intended to guide a positive environmental and also transport policy, of course I must agree with it. But I am absolutely against this being an instrument for budgeting. I'm afraid, given our Minister of Finance's high interest in new taxes, he's quietly counting on it. Nevertheless, it is important to check and be sure that low - and - middle - class cars are not more expensive and less accessible to people. This would cause people to drive older cars, with significantly higher emissions, and cars that are less safe, which is not insignificant in our deaths on our roads. However, I agree, of course, that it is necessary for higher-priority cars to be burdened more, i.e. those who, as a result and logically, are also more burdensome to the environment. This law must be treated exclusively as an environmental instrument and, if you want, transport policy. Everything else has to be in the background. We need to focus on greenhouse gas emissions, but for all types of vehicles. Even for the dilemmas that have been exposed here today: motors, quadricycles, antiques, commercial vehicles, including motorhomes. And I agree with the one who said, I think it was the former Minister of Economic Affairs, that this law must be financially neutral. If it doesn't, then I don't see the point. But we really can't afford a new burden on people and the economy this time. Even with regard to motorhomes, something has been said today, and here I simply have to agree, although we are not on the same line many times, but with Mr Anderlic I have to agree this time if we are talking about emissions of course. Today we are talking about emissions and taxation of emissions, in quotations. But when we talk about luxury, we'll talk about luxury. These are two different subjects, and they need to be separated. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention to one other dilemma and another question. I also consider this to be purely professional as a chemist. And when I look at the table on page 14 I wonder why the rate of tax on diesel at the same emission, especially for those lower emissions, is once more than on a petrol engine, so I won't tell the engine using liquid oil gas. Why would my car, which has a diesel engine and has an emission of 130 grams of CO2 per kilometer, once have a higher tax than my colleague's car, which has a gasoline engine and has the same emissions if we're talking about emissions? Because at least to some extent I know the chemical composition of gasoline and diesel fuel, and I'm not getting along at all. If we're talking about CO2 equivalent, that is, all greenhouse gases, not just CO2 as compounds. The sulphur content in petrol and diesel fuels is equal to 10 milligrams per kilogram. Sulphur dioxide is the same in both cases. The difference is in aromatic compounds that are problematic, I'm talking about gasoline, benzene, carcinogen, and so on. I want to know why it's such a difference and what it is. We're talking about emissions, about CO2 equivalents, I think we're talking about this. I see no reason why two different engines, petrol and diesel, which emit the same amount of CO2, would be taxed differently. I'm asking why it is, and I suggest you check these tables again. To consult, not only with motor manufacturers or cars, but also invite someone who works in the fuel industry to the consultation. Unfortunately, there are not many of these in Slovenia, but there are some of them, and that is to be checked again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u58	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u59	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. The whole of Europe is lowering taxes in these circumstances. It reduces taxes and in all ways encourages personal consumption. Slovenia is the only country in the European Union that increases taxes in these circumstances. In this law, this is still done under the cover of a green tax reform which is supposed to be linked to changing the burdens given how environmentally controversial or ecologically indisputable motor vehicles are. This is not because the law does not answer one of the essential questions, and these are old motor vehicles from abroad. It does not regulate traffic in environmentally-controversial used vehicles from abroad or even abolishes the taxation of used vehicles and introduces a new tax on engines and motorcycles. Thus, we are burdening one large part of the population, which, let's say, on one side of the car can't even afford it, and on the other hand one part of the population, which represents the majority of the Slovenian population - the middle layer. This law imposes an additional burden on the medium layer in 2010 for EUR 20 million, EUR 19.4 million after your calculation or forecast, and EUR 27.8 million for 2011. So you take it from your pockets again to those who represent the most productive part of this society and, instead of encouraging them to consume in these difficult economic conditions, you hit your pocket. In April, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we introduced a law in the parliamentary procedure to link these environmental issues to motor vehicles and to encourage the purchase of those vehicles that contribute to the environment and, on the other hand, to encourage consumption in this area by a relatively small subsidy of thousands of euro per motor vehicle. We would estimate that 15,000 vehicles would amount to EUR 15 million, but this would not be a budget gap, because we know that twice as much would have gone into the budget through the tax on the sale of these vehicles. This money won't be in the budget because it's been selling all these months we've seen in the first half of the year, it's shrinking enormously. And thank God that other European governments have done, in addition to what they have done for their citizens, one large part of the incentives have passed indirectly to our citizens. As a result of the measures taken by this Government, no more passenger cars would be sold. And in this law, when we could implement the good solutions that we are witnessing in the countries around us, this opportunity was missed. The basic postulate was an increase in the tax inflow in these times and an additional tax burden on those who have not been charged so far. I'm talking about those who have engines and motorcycles. I do not understand why in these circumstances the Government is not considering a tax that would burden those who cross Slovenia in transit, which burden our infrastructure, our roads, which are driven by trucks that are environmentally disputed, which do not bring into the state budget or the euro. Instead of trying to get extra revenue in this part, you even reduced it. You have raised excise duties to such a limit that those who cross Slovenia do not even refuel in our country. That is to say, even where these environmentally-controversial vehicles, which do not contribute to our GDP, not to our public finances or to the euro, could cover a million euros, you have dropped these things. And instead of leading some reasonable policy, I agree that during the period when energy prices and thus oil prices fall, these excise duties will increase accordingly. And that through this there are additional inflows to the budget. But only to such a limit that those who drive through our country in transit will also be fueling oil here. Not that they will pour on one side or the other of the border, they will leave - forgive the expression: swine trade in our environment, they will burden anything that is burdened to make, from infrastructure, to air, to water - and they will not contribute to the state budget or the euro. On the other hand, you are burdening the middle layer of our population by increasing the tax on motor vehicles and by charging motorists or owners of motor bikes and engines. I don't know why you're doing this. In any case, it will not be possible to achieve any of those goals that you paperly set. As a result, the environment will be no less ecologically burdened, no cleaner and state budget, which will otherwise be filled with additional taxes as proposed here, will take them out of the pockets of those who are supposed to spend on other segments and thus contribute to an increase or a smaller decline in economic growth in this country. It is also totally incomprehensible that this law does not regulate or abolish tax on old vehicles, so as not to regulate environmentally-controversial vehicles, which will be substantially higher in Slovenia after this regulation in the future than so far. On the one hand, this will make the environment much more burdensome, and on the other hand there will be no additional tide. Something like this is happening here has happened in the area of vinjets. At that time, we warned that when the vines are irritated, the domestic population is significantly more burdened and the influx of transit is reduced. And that is exactly what is happening today, when we see that the minister did not kneel just before the European Commissioner, he also kneeled before the Italian neighbour across the border in the Gulf of Markets. Now the entire market pool - as we hear - will be driven through Slovenia to Croatia without paying one euro for the use of our roads. That's not acceptable. This is not good and this policy is not in the interest of our citizens and not of our country. And there's something similar about that motor vehicle tax. The good intentions that this law could bring are the damage with these solutions that you are introducing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u60	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. In short, a few answers to the doubts presented. First of all, why taxation of motorcycles according to engine power and not emissions? Because there are no ways to measure emissions on motorcycles. This is not prescribed in Europe and is not publicly available. If we find such a way, I am the first to support such an amendment. Question two, the obvious that we care little about jobs. That's a Republican argument in the United States. That's Bush's argument, Cheney's argument, and people like that. Environmental change is an opportunity for new jobs. This is also known by the new US administration with Barack Obama and is also aware of the current coalition in Slovenia. This is an opportunity. Because if not, we can stay in the production of wagons and donkeys and have jobs there. Time goes on and it's time for us to go on with it. To raise taxes for the middle layer is also not true. Not only the Renault Twingo will reduce the tax by 2%, the duty by 1.45%, which solves all Revoz's problems and here is the problem of Renault and Concern, not Revoz and Slovenia. Cytor C3 2.7% lower, Prius almost 8% lower, BMW 325 lower, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A4 1.6 down by 1%. So, don't say we're gonna load up the middle layer. The middle class will be less burdensome for the most environmentally friendly vehicles. You know what the reason is that some are simply afraid that their vehicles will be [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u63	I have a procedural proposal. If I know the Rules of Procedure, then the Members in this National Assembly are having a debate and we are talking about the contents, we are arguing about the agenda and we are arguing about our debate. In this National Assembly, the applicant is obliged to provide answers. In this case it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I note that the Government has announced half an hour for the answers to the debate. And even though there is only a few minutes left for the other discussers, the government has only half an hour left. And the Secretary of State and her co-worker, who are replacing the ministers here, have not heard from them once and have not given any response to the arguments of the coalition and not the opposition parliamentary groups. I think that such a situation in the National Assembly is insufferable when the proposaler is simply deaf to all proposals, to all debates, to all the arguments he hears in this National Assembly and does not respond. Is this like they used to say, the goal of the topic is to "spent the time"? Probably not. And I do not think that the Government today has any anti-crisis measures at its meeting, but there is no minister here today. However, we are considering some important laws: the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the Income Law, and some other things we could list. In short, the situation that we are facing in this National Assembly is now quite a few in order for government representatives to come here just to sit around and not answer is unsustainable. And I think it's time for the responsible government, if the government is responsible, to stop this practice as soon as possible. The point of the debate in the National Assembly is communication, there is confrontation, there are arguments on the one hand, on the other hand, that we can then shape matters. I don't even care about that closing speech from anyone in the government. I don't even care! Because there's probably not much to say from that closing speech, and there won't be much. However, much can be made of added value through mainly discussion, through argument, through representation of views and justifications. However, this part of the debate is completely absent. In this point I note, look, when you publish the time of the debate, there is no government. There are no arguments from the government. She was satisfied with the written proposal and with the fact that several young warriors on the coalition side are trying to fight for her views. But the government doesn't have it, like many other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u64	Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. On the basis of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that procedural proposals be not misused, that a procedural proposal be first made and that it be explained. What we have now heard was a pure abuse of the procedural proposal, where the debater did not talk about the Rules of Procedure and the procedure, but argued and disputed with the Government. That's what I think is unacceptable. In addition, he has been embezzling other Members, some including me, as young warriors. If he thinks it's a fight, he's obviously spent too little time in the National Assembly to know what the debate is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. What do you want, Mr. Tanko? Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I think that my procedural proposal has been justified and reasoned, and through the display available, you can find that the Government has not opened a mouth since 10 a.m. until now, when the time is almost half past half past, except for 5 minutes for the introductory explanation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u68	Mr. Tanko, this is more like a replica of itself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u69	Yes, yes, but Mr. Yuri is probably no longer a young warrior, but he is already a veteran because he has such discredits and insults in the National Assembly. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u70	Mr. Tanko [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u71	I guess he'll have to do something else. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u72	Mr. Tanko, please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u73	Learn. [[....]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u74	The only thing I can say as President is that, as President, I cannot influence how they will decide at a meeting or a meeting of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government. As I was informed earlier, Mrs State Secretary wanted a word at the end. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that you allow the time available to the Government to interpret laws in Parliament or to respond to your comments, the Government shall deploy itself and make itself known when it considers that it is time for it to come forward. It is not necessary to react immediately after each Member State’s speech or comments or comments or observations or questions. My way is I usually come by when more stuff comes up. And I'm trying to explain these things. And this time, too, I was going to do it because your things are going to double to a large extent. Even in individual speakers, they duplicate or even tripulate several times in the same address. Speaking of which, I'm gonna say one more thing in person. I know this isn't usual, but I have to. What Ambassador Vizjak said I have enough time - I don't know what you thought I had enough time for. You want me to sit here or something? I just wouldn't want to afford that kind of attention. [[Yeah, you said in one of the past discussions.]] Now I'm going to go to your questions, because there's more to it than telling you, because I'm not going to convince you of the well-intention of this law and what we've written down in explanation. Because you've thrown away all the ideas and applied them to fill a budget hole with it. And that's our only goal. And if I tell you five times that this is not our only goal, you will still claim that this is our only goal. And that's because it says inside that the financial effect is 19.5 million. Of course, you forgot to read the assumption in which it reads: "...on the assumption that the traffic of cars will be the same as in 2008" because, of course, it is the assumption on which the assessment is based. So much for the financial impact. Old motor vehicles first. These are, in particular, motor vehicles coming from imports. Old motor vehicles coming from other countries will be taxed at the time of import and the first registration in Slovenia, as will all newly purchased vehicles in the country. Why are diesels taxed more than petrol cars, and what is the criterion for this? In addition to CO2 emissions, diesel cars also have hard particles and sulphur and nitrogen oxides. And they also contribute to environmental pollution in the same way. Therefore, the criterion in addition to CO2 emissions is also those particulates or oxides and therefore one and the other are taxed differently. When a fully implemented decision or one of the European Union directives on the introduction of the euro of six engines will be fully implemented, then this difference between one and the other will be no longer because the euro six brings different releases and no longer allows these hard particles. It also provides for an equalisation of taxation. The taxation of cars or all means of transport has a basic principle that all motor vehicles are subject to the same taxation and that the only criterion that makes the difference is environmental pollution. It is true that motor vehicles or motorcycles or engines do not have release data in the approval documents. And that's why we took the power of the engine as an identification to place it on a scale. However, the basis for classification in each class for engines was also CO2 emissions, so that the engines were actually taxed in the same way, i.e. by CO2 emissions and not by other criteria and are taxed approximately. So they're basically the same as cars, but slightly lower due to the impact of the seasonal component. This is built into just the height and the scale. Of course, we can talk about more or less progression. Since we have detected your concerns about this, we will re-examine the second reading and perhaps it will be made here also on our side some correction. As far as the cargo of those in transit is concerned. There was a lot of talk about that. In principle, we agree with you that transit traffic is a major contribution to the pollution of our environment and also to the fact that we actually have a poorer position in terms of coyotes than we would otherwise have. However, this law definitely cannot affect transit traffic. This law is a law that deals with a tax when buying a car. For transit transport, it will be necessary to find other levers that will either act as one, or as a CO2 fee - about which currently run at the level of the Government very intensive discussions and we are looking for solutions how to introduce a CO2 tax - or any other matter. Now, you yourself have found that excise duties have not actually worked in such a way in transit traffic, in order to obtain this in order to reduce transit traffic. It is also probably not in our interest to completely reduce transit traffic. It is likely a solution, and this is an extreme solution, that transit transport should at least be diverted in part from roads to railways, which is, of course, a slightly longer-term solution. Then you raised a related issue. Well, there was a lot of talk about singles and trailers. We know about the problem here. We do not know exactly how to simplify this matter. But I think the whole story is a relatively small problem. I think I've fully summed up your questions that have been asked. I'm not going to argue. Finally, I would like to say that the objective of the Government was not to increase the inflow to the state budget, but to actually influence the improvement of the environment and to introduce a different principle, other criteria for determining the amount of tax on the purchase of motor vehicles. Will this really affect the sale of motor vehicles if we look at those motor vehicles that are in production in Slovenia? Then it is unlikely that the increase in this tax would result in a fall in sales, since those motor vehicles produced in our country are even subject to a reduction in the sales tax, the retail price. I agree that various parts of the automotive industry production chain are relevant here and that they are not negligible companies dealing with car sales. However, due to the distribution of the type of cars and the increase of the tax, it is unlikely that during the transitional regime envisaged for 2010, if necessary, the transitional regime will be withdrawn depending on the situation in the economy for a few more years in order to result in a significant decrease in car sales in Slovenia. Thank you very much. If necessary, the government representative will be in touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We'll do it in a row. Mr. Friend, what did you want earlier with your hand up? Nothing. Thank you. Mr. Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, procedurally. Actually, I would have had a proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u78	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u79	In the second reading, I suggest that the Government bring someone to the hall who will get to know these things. Because what's been said now, it just doesn't hold. Professionally, he can't handle it. And it would also be right here, given that it is also a technical law or a professional law, that someone who will be able to answer properly will come next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u80	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Procedural. The secretary of state mentioned my name in the sense that I had hurt her personal nature by saying that the government still had 30 minutes of time available, and that I used the word that she had enough time. If she meant it in any personal way, then I apologize to her because I thought the government had 30 minutes to answer questions. And I've asked quite a few questions. For I highly esteem the secretary of state as a very working and competent person, and it was by no means my intention to tell her that he probably had enough time to sit here and so on in his work. That's one. Secondly, of course, I am not satisfied with the answers myself. Especially not with those who are technical wages. Indeed, it was explained here that due to certain particulate matter in diesel fuels, taxation is therefore higher. Which and to what extent [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u82	Mag. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u83	No, it's not a debate. This is a justification for the procedural proposal that the Government obtain an accurate analysis of which these hard particles are, until the second treatment, that we will not face just one sentence in the law saying: "Because of the negative effects in the additional releases of other pollutants to the environment in diesel motor vehicles, the tax rate is higher here." Which, what, to what extent? In this sense, it is my procedural proposal that the Government further explain to us until the second reading and with the numbers justify this difference in taxation of diesel and petrol engines.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I'm really not an expert on hard particles, but I'm an oxidist. I agree. However, the explanation of the law gives you very precise details as to the taxation of diesel. And I will read to you that I will not make any mistake in interpreting my professional texts: "In addition, for diesel motor vehicles if the release of hard particles is higher than 0.005 grams per kilometer, the tax rate is further increasing. If the motor vehicle has a hybrid or other alternative drive, a petrol-powered scale shall be used to determine the tax." Then you have here, and then you have on page 3 just as we are talking about the essential solutions to the law, written: "Slovenia received an official notice from the European Commission on 2 February 2009, due to excessive excesses in the PM-10 particles in the external air in recent years. The emissions of Euro5 and Euro6 are among the measures designed to reduce emissions of particles and precursors of recognised ozone, such as nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons, in particular to improve air quality..." Not to read the whole text. But I think that in the text of the law, there is also sufficient expertise in several places to explain what and what elements affect. If you feel that there is insufficient professional explanation in the law itself or in the text of its explanation, then please tell us more. But I agree that at this point, I don't know. And the minister won't be able to explain it because neither one of us is an expert. Unfortunately, however, the rules of the National Assembly are such that no one other than the Minister and the Secretary of State may speak here. So we'll meet somewhere else and we'll explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A viscous, would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u87	Procedurally, look. The distinguished secretary of state read a piece that we've all read. But don't answer the question that was so by the Magi. We eat like I do. In fact, it does not answer the question: Why, for example, is the rate of tax on diesel fuels 6% higher when we talk about discharges between 150 and 170 grams per transported kilometer of CO2 by 6%. For example, for vehicles and for releases 230 to 250, only 3% of the point. Why? I know why. Because that range of diesel vehicles was the most sold and the fiscal effect was caught there, not the professional effect, if you actually went to these engines for so many more particulate discharges. So, no, I'm not suggesting, I didn't procedurally suggest that there be an expert here to answer. Have the Government supplement the material to the second reading in terms of a precise explanation of the difference between diesel and petrol engines set out in Table 4. That's what I wanted, and I stress that. However, what has been defended answers us to the question of the second paragraph, why the euro is so different and similar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u89	Dear Vice President, don't insult me! This was a procedural proposal. I suggested [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u90	Others don't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u91	I suggested that until the next reading, since it is likely to be supported by this law, these material data will be obtained. This is a procedural proposal and not to comment that this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u92	Your first proposal was, I repeat, and I accepted it as a procedural proposal. This other one was more of a question and more of a comment. I'm sorry to give you my opinion. The time set for the debate is up, so I am closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, Friday, 25 September 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRSTLY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION, RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members with the first signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative, Mr Jožet Tank, who proposes the law to complement the explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. This law, which we have before us today, is the seventh law in a package of requirements of the Slovenian craft for 2008 and 2009. So far, we have proposed a double amendment to the Income Act. We have also proposed a new Law on Value Added Tax and a new Law on Public Finance and also a tax procedure, a new Law on Partial Subsidisation of the Contribution to Social Insurance of Self-employed Persons in Home and Art of Crafts. None of these laws have received coalition support so far. In addition, we have proposed a number of broader laws, including the area covered by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but there has also not been adequate support. Neither did they receive support from a law that did not require any public funding which did not require and caused any public financial deficit. These are the Public Finance Act and the Tax Procedure Act. And with both of us, we have proposed exclusively administrative simplifications and facilitations for entrepreneurs in the sense of paying our obligations with a single position. This was not accepted either. In all cases, the government has forwarded its views that these laws are being examined and that they will propose appropriate solutions in 2010, 2011. This is also the view we have on this occasion in this law that we have tabled. And it says the following - I will quote - this is on the third page of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: "In this context, the Government will also consider and assess the possibility of adopting certain measures in the context of changes in the area of taxation of the income of natural persons, which it is preparing in this year in this area. In terms of purpose itself and taking into account the characteristics of the current system or the flat-rate determination of the tax base, it is questionable whether the solutions proposed are effective and meaningful." In this opinion, it is only this time that the Government has only further questioned the solution we have proposed. And even if we understand this expression a little bit, she also said that because of doubts about the effectiveness of such solutions, she would probably not propose similar solutions in due course or in this mandate. In this law, however, we propose to raise the threshold for compliance with the standard costs from the current €42 000 to €100,000. We also propose that the level of standard costs be raised from 25 to 40% and that this relief or mode of accounting is also applied by those who have an additional employee in addition to themselves. This is a large number of small businesses. And so far, only those who did not have employees could account for their obligations to the State after this simplified procedure. Given that there are more than 100,000 small businesses in Slovenia and that there are a large majority of them, either with one employee or with another employee, it makes sense for these small companies to simplify the accounting process and to introduce, in a domestic sense, simplified accounting or simple accounting. This demobilization is an important contribution to administrative simplification. And by doing so, we will allow all these entrepreneurs to work, not how they will make their company more efficient with these tax models and burdens. I call on all those in the National Assembly who have a positive attitude towards Slovenian craftsmanship to support this bill, despite the fact that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the government has expressed its misunderstanding. [[...]] And I hope so much more because the former President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is now also a member of the largest coalition party and has prepared everything necessary to issue the requirements of the Slovenian craft issued in 2009. However, 2008 was adopted under his presidency. And I hope that the coalition will be able, at least in this case, to take one concrete step in the direction of actual assistance to Slovenian craft, Slovenian entrepreneurship, small and micro entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! Well, of course, if this extract, which the forerunner has afforded, by pointing his finger at one of our colleagues with the aim of political accounting, would not be, then I would think that the purpose of this law is sincere and sincere, that it is intended to help solve the crisis. And so it seems to me that the story goes in a different direction, like when they say, "My child doesn't have a school, he doesn't know what 500 kilos is, but he takes it and carries it." The same is true of the law. It can be suggested, but if you know that the law has unsustainable financial consequences, that it can significantly increase tax evasion and that the craftsmen who are intended to do so do not decide, then it is clear that there is something wrong with the law. Let's go in one order. The bill is another in a series of so-called anti-crisis measures to relieve the Slovenian economy. The opposition proposals, despite visible public financial inadmissibility and questionable efficiency, are still raining and will certainly continue. This time, the amendment to the Income Act is intended to refer to the unloading of independent entrepreneurs or natural persons by activity. As we have heard, the measure provided for in the law relates to increasing the threshold or raising the income limit for independent entrepreneurs from the current 42 000 to 100,000 euros, to which they have only the option of not having to manage their business books and using the option of taking into account the standard costs. In this connection, the draft law also proposes that standardised expenditure be increased from the previous 25 per cent to 40%. A measure that seems to be such a good and ideal solution could in practice also have certain side effects. This could certainly be the case for those who can settle their income obligations. So far, it has been shown that a large majority of independent entrepreneurs do not decide to comply with standardised costs, since they mostly have higher operating costs. That is why it makes more sense for them to keep their business books, for this is certainly in their best interest. As stated in the Government's opinion, it was found that the tax base could be found in a simplified manner by around 59% of the taxpayers. In fact, in practice, 11% of the taxpayers identified the tax base. Even in practice, when it comes to accounting services, it can be learned firsthand that most of their clients, such as independent entrepreneurs, run business books, as they typically have higher costs than the standard ones. Even if you were to be increased from the current 25% to 40%, you would continue to choose to follow the old ways. I believe that if this limit were even increased, the economy would not be burdened, but would only increase the privileges of those who benefit and are satisfied with it by now. The Government also points out that the effect of the law would be to increase the tax advantage of those taxpayers operating at low cost, which would put them in a significantly more favourable position vis-à-vis others. However, the question of equal treatment is also raised as compared to companies of a different legal nature, which could not apply this rule because of their different legal nature. Regardless of the above, the issue of the spirit of the law or the basic arrangement represented by the existing law is of vital importance. It is based on the principles of determining the actual profit or actual tax base. Finally, this is also one of those principles that should be followed in the treatment of all economic operators, namely, the determination of the actual situation and, on this basis, based on taxation. As we all know, flat-rate treatments distort the actual situation and place one at a time and the other at a certain disadvantage. Although we are aware in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the proposed amendment of the law would potentially mean decommissioning of the smallest companies, in our opinion we would have other potentially worse negative effects. This, on the other hand, does not mean that we are unaware of the importance of such an important segment of the economy as the natural persons who manage the activity. As explained in the bill, this kind of activity represents such a very important segment of our economy. In our view, when it comes to mitigating the consequences of the crisis and further encouraging this part of the economy, we should focus on the issues of payment non-discipline, which, at the end of the chain, carry precisely these small enterprises which may be subcontractors from a major contractor at the end of the chain. And you are the most often left without payment for a deserved, honest and quality job. This very little of them makes them vulnerable because of the non-compliance of their contracting authorities. Therefore, simply reducing the tax burden through raising the revenue margin to take into account the standardised costs would certainly not be an appropriate measure. When we open up the problem of independent entrepreneurs, we also face problems of the grey economy many times. When the public-financial situation is allowed, in our view it would certainly be necessary to consider how to tackle this need with various tax measures, and some important part of the Slovenian economy, since, because of the high tax burdens alone, it is often for them to survive, to avoid the tax burden. This, however, only results in an increase in the grey economy, which is not the objective of any economy. In view of the anticipated effects of the law, the principles of equal treatment, the principles of determining the actual tax base, as well as the public-financial situation of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. The Social Democrats' Group's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, proposed by the Group of Members with the first signed Jozet Tank, will not support further consideration in the National Assembly. We have already completed the Income Act twice in this mandate, and I think there were at least two or three more attempts when we rejected the proposals. Not because they were proposed by the opposition, but because they were thoughtless and had too much financial implications for public finances. The Law, adopted in 2006, abolished virtually all reliefs, despite the fact that this was a period when micro and small enterprises could be significantly better helped to develop with various tax incentives. Not now that the general economic and, of course, financial crisis also makes it extremely difficult for the Government and the Ministry of Finance to recognise additional reliefs, thus weakening public finances and thereby jeopardising the functioning of public services, which we all use. However, with the first amendment to the Income Act, when we reintroduced the possibility of reducing the tax base to 30% of the invested assets in equipment and intangiblely long-term assets, we returned cca to these smaller entrepreneurs through tax relief. 50 million euros. In the second amendment to the Income Act, we have listened to motorists who have rightly requested additional relief for vehicles with Euro4 and 5 engines. The bill now proposes to raise the limit as a basis for taxation from €42 000 to €100,000 and the standard costs from 25% to 40%. So those who don't keep a business book would somehow make an extra profit. If we convert this into a month, it is proposed that there be no tax of EUR 3,300 per month. Indeed, this is probably like a material cost that someone uses to make a product or service. We estimate that this is unacceptable because today it is converted to a month of 875 euros. As a rule, it is those who cannot prove the material costs of their work. By rejecting this law, we will not put anyone in a worse or less favourable position. Anyone who carries out an activity and has higher material costs than this 25% standardised has the opportunity to keep business books, to charge VAT both entry and exit and to pay a profit tax. That this is actually more favourable for many entrepreneurs organised in the status form of s.p., the data on how many entrepreneurs have actually opted for flat-rate taxation. However, in the existing Income Act, there are several irregularities or inconsistencies that need to be eliminated by the end of the year in order not to come into a situation where those who now receive the lowest income at the level of the guaranteed salary and do not pay the income advance will have to pay an additional income in the following year, because they are generally too low. Or that he will take the child to a collection office after deductible taxes and income to the collection office for 20 euros. The parent, who had a dependent family member, finds in the income decision that the child is no longer a dependent family member because he had an income of 20 euros in the past year. I suppose the government will soon prepare a change to the income law that will eliminate such or other anomalies. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will not support further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. With the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act with the first-signed Jozet Tank, we want to re-enact our contribution to the relief of the Slovenian economy, which is still important during the global and economic crisis. This is already our second or third attempt in this direction to help the most dynamic and at the same time the most sensitive part of the economy. As a result of their smallness, independent entrepreneurs are already in a poor negotiating position, both with larger business partners and with financial institutions and banks. With the proposal for a law, we want to ensure such a tax environment so that the ideas of individuals can grow into concrete projects and thus successfully develop and expand their business, which is particularly important in these times of crisis. And the task of the state in times of crisis is to create the conditions for doing business as easily as possible with the lowest administrative and other costs. One of the major costs is the cost of accounting. The current tax legislation is administratively very difficult in everyday life. The debtors must comply with a number of complex forms and they must be reviewed by the tax administration, with the possibility of errors not already being excluded due to their own procedures, not in the case of citizens or in the tax administration. In the past, everything has been overly neglected and abandoned by a small economy, and more has been devoted to large systems, although, as we say, small entrepreneurs are the most vital part of the economy. The proposal for a law whose basic solution is to raise the taxable person's income from carrying out activities from €42 000 to €100,000 in order to require that standardised expenditure be taken into account when determining the tax base of the following tax year. The proposal also foresees an increase in standard expenditure from 25% to 40%. A request for compliance with standardised expenditure could also be made by those debtors who had one employee in the last business year, which is not possible after the rules currently in force. This change will certainly have a positive impact on employment itself and on increased economic activity. Since micro-enterprises in Slovenia represent as much as 96.2% of all economic operators, it is worth trying to make it possible for these entities to operate in a simplified manner. To this end, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. The proposed amendments to the Income Act propose an increase in standard costs from 25 to 40%, while at the same time increasing the price from €42 000 to €100,000 or for almost 2.4 times to enter the simplified way of determining the tax base, taxation on the basis of standardised expenditure, and allowing one employee to be employed with the taxpayer. The current Income Act lays down three conditions for calculating the tax base based on standardised costs of 25% of revenue: that there is no obligation to keep business books and records; secondly, that the revenue from activities in the last 12 months does not exceed EUR 42 000; and thirdly, that it does not employ workers. In addition, the law in force specifically lays down comparable conditions for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. The basic regulation in the law in force is aimed at determining the actual profit or tax base. Administrative simplification in the determination of the tax base only makes sense for those with a small volume of business where the actual tax recognised costs are lower than the flat rate. The available data show the low interest of the beneficiaries in determining the tax base on the basis of the standardised costs in the past, since only one fifth of the beneficiaries opted for this option. In determining the conditions for simplifying the determination of the tax base, it is necessary to take care of the same treatment of all entities, both independent entrepreneurs and small economic groups, which are prevented from simplifying accounting and thus simplifying tax bases. The importance and benefits of proper and transparent business monitoring for the debtors themselves, as well as for third parties, specifically banks and linked to the income threshold, should also be taken into account. In addition, it should be noted that the increase in standardised costs extends to those taxable persons who, by the nature of their activities, operate at lower costs and the amendment of the law gives them, in the extreme case of up to 15,000 at the annual level or that the ceiling is increased by almost four times or almost 300%, which would, of course, have a negative impact on public finances and would result in a shift from the principle of equality and taking into account the ability to pay taxes. Nor is the international comparison in support of the proposed changes and it is not true that the proposed changes would be in support of the development of crafts. In view of the said and questionable positive effects of the proposed legislative amendment of the bill, it is not possible to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u103	Dear Mr President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague! Solutions to the proposed changes in income legislation constitute one of the many proposed measures to avoid or mitigate the dimension of the global financial crisis. The proposed amendment concerns the identification of the tax base of the activity's income and the method of the simplified method of determining the tax base or the method of flat-rate taxation using standardised costs. Such a proposal with identical solutions has already been addressed in the National Assembly in January at the 5th extraordinary meeting, at which the DeSUS Members have already expressed their reasoned position in this regard. Today we will not distribute this widely, because we are convinced that in the good two hours that the debate took place at the time, everything that was necessary has been said and explained why these solutions are not acceptable today. The arguments for the imprudentness and inadequacy of these solutions submitted by the Government are expertly justified and more acceptable than the applicants. Our parliamentary group will therefore not change its position on the solutions submitted, as the applicant has not supported his solutions with new or additional facts that would convince us otherwise. Thus, we will vote against the proposed amendment to the Income Act or to conclude that the proposal for a novel is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act is essentially the seventh requirement of the Slovenian craft, under which the book is signed by Miroslav Klun, Deputy Member of the Social Democrats, who replaces Mr Patrick Vlačič. At that time, the requirements of this policy option were the requirements that are now expressed in this law. Today, of course, these requirements are no longer acceptable to this Government of Mr Pahor. So much for who the author is. I'm denying you the authority, so Janš's client wouldn't own it. The authors are Social Democrats and dots. Otherwise, everything the opposition proposes, respected, is rejected. The position measures are mitigating measures; they are a Sunday investment. We finance or subsidize part - time work, waiting at home, in short, work. Here, where we could help, when we know that micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises are the heart of the economy, if we could really use one single measure to help create new added value, it employs new people, that we can also think about someone on this account when the state comes to its aid only with an administrative gesture, also buy a new machine and open up a new job on this account. Of course, there's no understanding here. Although we can see that on the other hand, the government is very wasteful when it comes to the salaries of judges, those they themselves need to protect their backs, and so on. I would like to draw a little parallel to how the government behaves to the economy, how the state treats those who grow this tax crop every year. From this tax field we also collect for the salaries of judges, and for such nonsense as we have witnessed here in the National Assembly, when we try to do this and how this will inspire and how the country will be wasteful in another field. The country is actually very, very stepmotherly here. He's also the biggest debtor to anything overpaid, which is essentially overpaid through taxes. There's no liquid return. It is also year after year to get what is actually overpaid into the state budget by those who are charging the state budget. And the State wants to collect its tax immediately from the producers, it doesn't care if this product, which the individual craftsman made is paid at all. I'm talking about financial discipline. And in this way, if we could help by taking the main solution into account and raising the taxpayer's revenue line from 42,000 euros to 100,000 euros and also increasing costs from 25% to 40%, we do not want to do that. And why, for example, does the state not introduce at least financial discipline? Why does the state not say, okay, we recognize that financial non-discipline in the country is great, we will collect a tax when the products are paid when the craftsman gets what he has done, whether it is actually paid in court or when the contracting authority pays him within the legal time limit? Why isn't the country so honest, and this government is also saying that we're going to put our pot on? No, we can't do that because some judge could be underpaid. We have also spoken in the past about why employment is increasingly black, even because of such measures. Because if the Government cannot listen to those who are willing to work in such a way that it can also help them to open up businesses and in such a way that it offers them simple bookkeeping and other reliefs resulting from this, the recognition of costs, then many also use such matters to easily perform small-scale services in black. I personally estimate that the Government is solely responsible for what is happening in Slovenia because it does not want to tackle the main problems. Of course, if we continue to do as we do, the country will continue to be the biggest debtor to those who fill a budget that overpays a lot of tax obligations and do not get the money back, it has to wait years and years for that. The legal judgments received by some who have sued the State are not taken into account; the State avoids these payments, even in this case the case law records great shame for the State and the Government, of course. If we talk only about what the Chamber of Commerce has suggested to ourselves, and if we do not take into account what was once promised to the craftsmen by this particular party in power today, then we can say that it is a diversion. Dear Mr Tanko, this is not your proposal, once again, this is the proposal of the Social Democrats, and please step away from it. Give another candidate a chance to be accepted. We'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for amendments to the Income Act affect the scope of the tax base on income from activities on the basis of the application of standardised expenditure. The purpose of the standardised expenditure system is to simplify the administrative basis for determining the tax base which is important. The proposed law aims to relieve independent entrepreneurs of individuals as an important segment of the Slovenian economy. In particular, it is proposed to increase the price to 100,000 euros and to increase the standard expenditure from 25% to 40%. The system of standardised expenditure is based on the choice and data stated in its opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and shows that the simplified tax base only applied to the poor 20% of those who could. Although we agree with some of the Government's arguments concerning the system of standardised expenditure and against which the Government opposes the bill, we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group as a suitable basis for further consideration. Just because of the argument that this system is decided by relatively few debtors. In these difficult times, we believe that nothing would be wrong for all if solutions were to support and make life easier for at least one small segment of the Slovenian economy. Especially for the domestic craftsmanship, Slovenian domestic craftsmanship. You know, it has to be helped, too, much more than, for example, judges. So we're dealing with a kind of warning to the government, which obviously doesn't listen this time, just like she didn't listen to it in January when I warned about the Mura issue. And what happened happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Surely, there is no person in this National Assembly who would not support any good option and intend to relieve the economy of duties and that businesses will come to a full life, that the unemployed will return to the machines and the climate in the country will improve to the level of two years ago. But the day-to-day monitoring of developments in the National Assembly and on the ground does not have an impact on the hope of recovery of our economy, as the measures we are well placed do not bring about iron improvements, and the crisis is further deepening. If I tell you the truth, one of the successful craftsmen said to me, "Look, if you keep helping me like this, I'll be dead within three months. I'm gonna lose the company because the Austrians are gonna take it because it's mortgaged and I can't pay off the loan. Even though we are doing good, we have enough work, we do not have to pay the wages and benefits that the country needs to pay on a regular basis." They have earned about a million euros, but they have no money for running. Banks are prevented from lending, but the state should ensure that payment discipline, which for most small craftsmen is destined for further work, is eliminated. Neither does the state pay, nor does the VAT bear them. See, we are not asked for anything else by these small craftsmen, but to make sure that they are paid in short time for the work they have done and that they may receive some kind of bridging credit that the state likes to talk about and the guarantee scheme does not reach them. You wrote that the aim of the proposed law is to relieve the Slovenian economy, with the emphasis being placed on decommissioning the small economy, of which there are independent entrepreneurs who are the most dynamic and at the same time the most vulnerable part of the economy. This smallest part of the economy is also most crucial for the further development and performance of the entire national economy. Lately, it is time to listen to the problems experienced by small economies and not impose some of our views, because politicians are not all economic experts. And when we listen to their problems they face, it will be easier for them to resolve their differences and misunderstandings. I think this is the only way to solve a small economy. Let us ask those who are facing difficulties, let us not be embarrassed to learn first-hand where the heart of the problem is and the failure of economic recovery measures. The problem is also in employment, for, as the craftsmen say, they do not get workers from the stock market by importing them from abroad. It's not about builders, it's about mechanics, electricians, locksmiths, mechanics and so on. There must be a lot of them on the market with these professions, but they don't want to get a job because apparently the income from the stock market and the grey economy are more favourable. In this area too, action will have to be taken quickly and in favour of the small economy and the budget will be filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. He has Jože Tanka as his proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Following these introductory discussions and the views that have been put forward, I owe a few answers. First of all, this is a request, which I also said in the debate, in the presentation, summarized at the request of the Slovenian craft. One third of the proposal is from there. So, raise the bases for a normal count of 42 to 100,000. Two other issues were added: raising from 25 to 40% for normal work and additional employees, not only self-employed, but also additionally employed. So much for authorship. It is, however, a requirement summarised in accordance with the requirements of the Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship 2009. The order number of the application or proposal is 22, you can all look at it. We received this brochure from all Members of the National Assembly. It is true, however, that most of this material was produced at the time when Mr Klun, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was a Member of the Social Democrats. However, the book was later published when he resigned as President after that February or March session for reasons of non-compatibilities. A few other things. It was said that the law had an unsustainable financial impact. If the one who said so read the law will see that this law has no unsustainable financial implications. Only minimal changes, liquidity changes in the state budget, reallocation. That's what it says. And the one who claimed this, this was the leader of the Liberal Democracy Group, did not say one figure for how much this solution, this proposal increases this incoherence. There's no such thing as incontinence. By the way, some of the other proposals that we have proposed, such as simplifying the payment of corporate obligations to the country, have not produced and produced any unsustainable financial implications for the state budget. However, they have brought or would have brought an extremely large simplification in the small economy and, above all, €18 million in savings for paying the commission once and not 9 to 15 times, depending on the company, the number of employees and so on. This lack of acceptance has caused additional or additional financial consequences to all those involved in small-scale entrepreneurship. You said that one way or another, this solution covers only a small part of entrepreneurs who have the possibility of accounting under this law. This was said to be 11% with a colleague from Zares, 20% or one fifth. You know, if you remember, the first law you proposed regulated the status of only one person, Mr Secretary-General of Squill, when you proposed amending the Law on Members. 10% of those who can or can account for their obligations to the State under this law mean 6,7 000 entities, if they hold Mr Trofenik's data, up to 12 thousand companies have a simplified way of calculating their obligations to the State, charging taxes. That's a little bit. And these are the smallest, plumbers, plumbers, domestic and art craft manufacturers who are not very much involved in financial business, but are mainly engaged in the work and development of the product for the provision of services. They don't have much time to deal with whether they're going to put an invoice on one or the other, or whether they're going to show it one way or another. They're working on how they're going to make extra money. And I find that, actually, now that this coalition has taken over the leadership of this country, there is no situation or situation towards a small economy, until the end of the century nothing has changed. The position or attitude, your attitude towards this part of the Slovenian economy is the same until 1990, when it was a punishment if you were a sole entrepreneur if you were a craftsman. Punishment. Audits all over. Nor does he hold that this would have made him in any way disabled or weakened by financial supervision or inspection of the operation of this work. Nothing would have been weakened. It's the same as before. In this area, as far as the inspection work is concerned, we do not completely change anything and the existing situation will apply. And one more thing. Some of you here have debated a lot about the need to ensure equal treatment of taxpayers. You know, this solution is already in force. Is this 10 or 20% now in an unequal position? Does he have a better position to settle his obligations to the country than others? Is this an unconstitutional state that is now in force? We do not change this situation in terms of a new solution. We are only expanding the possibility that the base or number of those who can then account should be expanded because we know what the problems of those who are self-employed or who have one employee and are engaged in, say, service services, repair washing machines and similar things. That's all. Otherwise, we do not establish any constitutional legal relations. We are not establishing any new tax relations. That's it now. It is about trying to settle things by allowing as many people as possible to use a simplified way of calculating their tax obligations and nothing else. That 10 or 20% of those who have this ability to use this model means that the number of those who use this method is large. A few thousand, ten thousand taxpayers account for their obligations in this way. For the end, just a word, Madam President. Unfortunately, the government doesn't have a competent interlocutor here. Again, no minister, no secretary of state. I think that the relationship established in the National Assembly in dealing with individual points is not sustainable. I think it would be your duty, as you did when there was no government representative who came to present the position for the law proposed by the Government, to postpone the meeting for 10 minutes and wait for the government representative to arrive. I suggest you use it now. Until this point is considered or any item on the agenda of the competent interlocutors by the Government, I propose that you suspend the meeting and ensure the participation of those who will be able to respond and discuss these points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. First of all, on this last proposal of yours. I will not put this into debate and take this into account. The fact is that this is a law that has been tabled by Members and Members. The Government may or may not determine whether or not to do so. Therefore, the presence of the relevant representatives of the Government is desirable, but it is not necessarily necessary. We'll continue the session. Please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Point 16. You wrote a review or material that we received on the table, a review of the cooperation of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. The Act amending and supplementing the Income Act is included in point 16. That's where you wrote that Dr. France Križanič, Minister of Finance, will be involved. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State, Irena Erjavec, Director General, and Mateja Vraničar, Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. I find that the three that could be discussed are not present at this meeting. The one who doesn't have the authority is sitting at the table. I suggest that you make sure that this point is carried out as provided for in Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I see for myself the same way you do, that those who could be debated by the Government are not at this point. I also note that it is the right of the Government to discuss this. But it is not her duty and her duty, because it is not the law that she would submit. So we'll keep going. However, we can hope or expect the appropriate representatives of the government to come to the National Assembly. We're moving on. The word is Guido Kres. So, let's move on. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm sorry some of the boys left. Well, some others are present and will still be happy to discuss. What does the amendment of the law mean? I will not say anything new if I say that it is simply to increase the calculation of the standard costs from 42,000 to 100,000 euros or from a maximum of 3,500 euros per month, which is 8,333,33 euros per month. However, I think that for an honest, independent entrepreneur who earns about €3,400 gross, €3,300 per month, it is quite enough to be able to meet the standard costs. For someone who is an independent entrepreneur and earns 5, 6, 7, 8,000 euros a month, there is nothing wrong with the state saying to him, "Show me, please, the costs you had, and on the basis of these costs you actually had, we will take these costs into account and reduce the tax base for this." €42 000 is in the old currency of 10 million tolars. Well, when we say 10 million tolars, I think it's a pretty high base. €100,000, however, is almost 240 million. Such traffic at the time of the tolar was lived by many d.o.o., 24 million tolars of course and not 240 million tolars. Fighting my colleagues sometimes confuses me, I apologize and thank you for the correction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u116	Peace in the hall, no answers, no replicas! If you want to discuss it, you will have a copy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u117	I thank both Mr Visionak and Mrs Pecany for correcting me on this matter. An honest craftsman who works as an independent entrepreneur and earns EUR 5,6 000 a month does not need standardised costs. First, because these standard costs are still low. And to the extent that it works honestly, it must have as much cost as it would have to exceed the quota of standard costs. Therefore, it would prefer to show actual and proven costs. So why are there, why is there an institute of standard costs? Why? Why did we even imagine him? Like my talker said a few minutes ago, we're not introducing anything new, we're just changing the limit. Standardised costs exist because some who have very low turnover have too much accounting costs with the few traffic they have. Therefore, it makes sense that we simply save them the costs of this accounting, it made sense and it is recognised that there are generally certain standard costs. Okay, fine. However, the cost of keeping accounts is declining today through computerisation. Especially with independent entrepreneurs and small businesses. There are open source codes, if you want, programs. There are Internet-accessible applications that help you with accounting and account management, which can greatly reduce accounting costs. Therefore, the first reason for the application of the standard costs is therefore slowly disappearing. And if we want to move forward with time, we will soon find that we do not need the Institute of Standardised Costs at all, because the costs of keeping accounts are already so low because the independent entrepreneur can practically manage the accounts and do not have to pay EUR 300,400 for the accountant to recalculate his balance sheet at the end of the year. An increase in standard costs would only help those who cannot show high costs. Therefore, it would be helpful to so-called intermediaries, to those who take the commission for certain transactions, for such ones we already know from the media, for example Domen Zavrl or Jure Cekut, who received a commission for some business and at higher standard costs could easily lower their tax base and place that money in their pockets without tax. Now I wonder if the proposaler might want to help some of these intermediaries so that they can get more out of these brokerages without being taxed. I think this assumption of mine is rude. And that's why I don't refer her seriously to my opposition colleagues. I think there are other reasons. The main reasons are to seek out the votes of the electorate and the electorate. It's understandable that you're a political party like us, but this time it was shot through. Once again, higher information, lower accounting costs, and therefore the renovated slowly lose reason at all over time. Finally, I would ask: What is the responsibility when we talk about responsibility when such laws are proposed? What, then, should we find in the argumented debate that they do not have an argumented basis? I think it would be more useful to continue the debate that we had earlier when we discussed future taxes in steps ahead, and not to take steps back where it is not necessary. And any accountant who knows at least a little about software applications, keeping accounts will tell me that the standard costs are not going to be needed at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u119	Once again, I will stress that we have only one law at our current regular meeting of the National Assembly at a time of acute economic and increasingly social crisis. That is what the opposition has proposed in the direction of crisis resolution or in the sense and direction of promoting economic activity. Here we see this different approach, on one side of the government and the coalition and on the other side of the opposition. In fact, the government and the coalition clearly see times of crisis as times for, say, increasing taxes. Previously, we had the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which raised this tax for virtually a large majority of motor vehicles and motorcycles. Now we have a bill on the bench proposed by the opposition. A law aimed at making it easier for economic operators to operate in the direction of the tax burden of one very important and potentially insignificant part of the tax system. So we are talking about the smallest craftsmen, entrepreneurs we want to help with their work through facilitating business, by raising the threshold of standardised expenditure. Well, not just that. We also want to implement some important policies that are covered in the Act for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Europe and in some river "think of the smallest first". These were also messages from the President of the Government at the recent opening of the Cele Trade Fair to listen to these demands and to take as much account as possible. There is now a proposal on the table that is symbolic but important for this segment of the economy. A proposal in terms of promoting economic activity in terms of the administrative burden of the smallest economic operators. Small and micro enterprises have already played an important role in the history of Slovenia. With the loss of Yugoslav markets and with the country's independence, a significant part of the burden of the economic downturn and the crisis have also been borne by the smallest. They employed and built economic activity, and many of them grew into medium-sized and some also into large businesses. So, the potential in small businesses is important. Their share is promising and needs to be seen through a medium or long-term perspective. The worst part is to look at these companies through the short-term prism of a tax year. For if the little ones are allowed to grow up, and they are allowed to grow up by being helped in this incubational age or in the small age, then we can reap more later. Each huge macro-enterprise, although there is no term or a large enterprise has come from a small one, nor has the company itself been large, at least if organic growth has not occurred at some other time, some other social arrangements. So I think it's important whether to give these companies a positive signal or not. We have previously heard something about informing and how to make business easier with modern technologies and methods. Yeah, it's true. However, I would be very happy to have this explained to one deckman, one hairdresser, one artistic blacksmith, who combines much of his knowledge in this basic activity and has little time for education and any view of these technologies. Although I say that this is useful for them too, it is necessary, but unfortunately in practice it is useless. This is again one theory that we have always and again listened to, which in practice does not work and is more or less a blurring of facts. So, the key and most meaningful thing about this law is that it simplifies business for these smallest economic operators and that to this segment of the economy there is a more positive attitude than before. There is actually a difference between the coalition's approach and the opposition's approach when we are talking about the economic crisis. We are convinced that the only and most important way out of the economic crisis is by taking measures to increase economic activity. But these measures are not and are not respected by the opposition. There are no such measures. There are only measures to share, spend more and how to additionally burden the economy with new taxes. The additional burden on the economy will not contribute to economic activity and the burden will be on the economy. It is true that this may be disgusting and difficult within a short-term view of a tax year or a financial year. But it's getting paid. All countries introduce subsidies, encourage consumption, lower taxes. In fact, in simple proposals like this on the table, we say that it is lame, that it is opposition, that it is populist and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, after one year of government of this power, we decided to make one balance sheet of the situation presented. We will probably prepare our proposals again in one way, as I would say, a more structured form. Especially because we do not allow this authority to continue with such inefficiency. We want to take some responsibility for the fate of people and our economy. And that is why we will always propose such measures as we think can be effective. However, once again I ask you to try to understand the essence and not repeat the arguments that we have already heard that these things will not lead, but at the same time we will follow this path of Slovenia down the road, as is unfortunately now outlined.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Mencinger. Please. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please. No, no, no. Mag. Borut Saiovic. Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act. Why is it important that we actually submit it as an opposition, regardless of the fact that we have jointly created this proposal at the Chamber of Commerce with our current fellow Member, Miroslav Klun? Micro and small medium-sized enterprises represent the heart of the Slovenian economy in Slovenia. Over 107,000 micro-enterprises with less than two million euros in sales revenue. So 96.2% create these companies. Big companies are only 200. We must be aware that the current Government cannot or cannot help large companies. From day to day, a new company goes bankrupt. The question is, where is this number going to stop? We must aim to help micro and small businesses. For out of the little one, you know, you grow a lot. It is therefore important that we actually raise the limit from €40,000 to 100,000. It is precisely for this reason that we actually make it possible to pay taxes to those companies or to those individuals who are now working in black. This is why we have come to this proposal for a law because we ourselves know how much bureaucracy is destroying the economy. Accounting services are either different or different, which themselves do not know how to add up or not. It is therefore important that we actually make it possible for those who do not now, who are fighting or defending this because of bureaucracy, to be able to pay the tax, and thus, by working in black, are causing unfair competition. This is the goal of what we have been preparing together at the Chamber of Commerce for several years. It is true that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has summarized part of the proposal for a trade brochure which was submitted. That's why I think that's the right thing to do. I also come from a craft, which then actually grew into a big company. It is therefore important to respect and adopt this law. In Slovenia, more people are unemployed from day to day. In Slovenia, there are several people working day after day, unfair competition. And we believe that by adopting this law, we would help the country to obtain the necessary inflows into the state treasury, but we, too, in Parliament, in the state bureaucracy, must be aware that we have to reduce it. Because if we don't start acting economically here, the government is acting economically, I'm afraid I don't know where the companies that are going to be able to feed all these people tomorrow, which is a huge machine. The economy is downsizing from day to day, looking for reserves, rationalisation in companies. Those companies that have approached it in time will become stronger, not only stable, but stronger. But where corporate directors are only for their wages, there unfortunately are these companies sinking. And if the government isn't listening, then it's going to happen even faster. Believe that the autumn part by the second quarter of next year will be the hardest part for the Slovenian economy. Many people don't even know what the Slovenian economy is, where the money comes from. Some of you think, "Yeah, the cash register has to be full." But from who? If it is not helpful, it does not listen to economic operators, small crafts, micro-enterprises, medium-sized enterprises. These are the greatest potential and these are the greatest creators of the Slovenian budget. That is why it is wise - and I ask you once again - to adopt this law, because this law will give us more financial resources in the Treasury. That's the point. They are not the target of machination, they are not the target of a campaign or anything I have heard from certain previous speakers. The goal is because the red light is burning, the red light is like the formula. There's a red light on here in the economy. That is why we must approach and help them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm sorry about earlier. I was at the reception of the delegation from Bosnia and Herzegovina and, indeed, when I was on my turn, I was a little confused. But now I've got this opportunity to speak. And thank you so much and sorry for earlier. Look here, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would have this or I would have supported this marriage. From practice, I can tell you that I don't know if that's what this is about, that the cost of keeping books is going down. If they are reduced somewhere, they are increased due to competition when a lot of offers become available in one area. Otherwise, they organize you according to points. So many points, so many leads, so much money, so much money. I'm telling you, they're not small amounts, they're large amounts. Above all, there are large amounts for those who actually work their incomes by hand, where there is no machine support or anything like that. And these people at the end, when they finish their work day, I think they're pretty tired. And then it's really hard to get at the table, and even book stuff, and that's why you're putting them out, you're autorizing them. But I tell you that if this matter were accepted, I would still be for an even bigger flat-rate figure than it was given at this point, and at the end of the day, the country could, if you could get in touch if you could talk, if you could do the right analysis and see what kind of profits would come out when the balances are made. A number of entrepreneurs might have gone into a slightly higher tax to get rid of this bureaucratic business on the other hand. Because this would leave him with a lot more energy really for his work, not for dealing with all the papers that can be created in this bureaucracy. Look, if I'm going to do exactly at this moment of beginners, those beginners to whom the office is offering 4,000 euros to start with. You know, people who don't do business think that those who have 400, 500 euros in wages think that's a big deal. It's a very small thing. You take this, you make a big commitment because you went into this subsidy. In the end, when you get all the paperwork, and when you get the bookkeeper, it was barely for that, but not for any good start in a business career. If we were to change the matter in the way proposed in this law, but not only that, it would be a start, I say that a good research should be done here and well prepared, even in larger matters, for a more friendly policy of both leadership and taxation, the country would eventually gain more. True, many of these bookkeeping services, which now live very well on this account, could close the door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. You surprised me a little. I came in too fast. Thank you for your word, nice greeting to everyone again. So I do not pretend that this bill will receive adequate support in the National Assembly. However, I think it is worth trying for all these small entrepreneurs who represent, as it were, over 96% of all economic operators in Slovenia. We also know that keeping books takes quite some effort. It is necessary to get through the mountain of administration, which is more important for some, because they are doing their job more, and I would say quality still costs a lot. Therefore, I think it makes sense for me to raise this threshold for the taxpayer's income from carrying out activities of EUR 25,000 per hundred thousand in order to require that standardised expenditure be taken into account when determining the tax base. This is one way to give this part of the economy an opportunity. I say, give a chance to take this opportunity. It's not said they will, but let's give them a chance. I don't believe that this would give us the possibility of any very big cover-up. It is true that some flat-rate taxation, which is, for the state, can be bad and good for the taxpayer, and vice versa. It can be bad for a taxpayer and possibly good for the country. In this case, the taxpayers will not decide on this method of taxation. Speaking of concealment, is it not, however, a fraud, that the company is certainly taking advantage of the full-time, part-time, full-time, full-time, full-time, full-time, full-time, Saturdays and even holidays? There doesn't seem to be a mechanism here. And let the workers be happy that they can even work and get these few euros. If you say, or if you feel that the taxpayers do not make a massive decision about this type of taxation, I ask myself, ‘ Why, then, such opposition, where does fear of big tax evasion come from? Tax evasion is most likely to occur at least in the value sense of large systems where they do not have this flat-rate mode of taxation. Therefore, I propose that we offer a hand to help small or micro-enterprises and give them a chance to breathe, to catch their breath, and perhaps they too will help to get this wagon out of the crisis. Finally, perhaps this explanation or replica, as it is called, Mr Chapič mentioned the child earlier. I got this letter, too. So I remembered this, or the e-mail, that the child who collected the old paper received it, I don't know, a couple of euros, and when the parent or the mother gave it to her as a maintenance member and put that income in there, they deleted it. I got this question in e-mail and I looked into the tax administration, said this case, and the damage was said on the tax administration that I don't know the name. But they assured me that it was an obvious mistake because, under the second paragraph of Article 115 of the Income Law, by the age of 18 he was an unconditionally dependent member. They advised me. But unfortunately, I didn't know the name of it. It was obviously a mistake. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't mean to replicate it, but when we got it, probably someone else got this letter, and when I showed this e-mail to the secretary of state, she confirmed it to me - it's true, it's an anomaly of the law. This is an anomaly of the law, where for 20 euros someone is no longer a dependent family member. Therefore, the income law has to be amended in some aspects. But this change you're proposing doesn't solve it for us to be clear. That's a long way from here. It's about maintenance family members. But actually, I've been thinking about what the motive is for such a leap from 42 thousand to 100,000 and from 25% to 40%. And then I tried to calculate it back. That this, and today it was said in the debate, also for those engaged in artificial craftsmanship, with some minor things, with some complementary activity. Yes, but it does, after this first proposal or after what is now in the income law, about EUR 3,500 per month. €3,500 to reach a limit of €42 000 per year. And, of course, he was able to acknowledge material costs of 875. Today, you are proposing that this may be an additional profit or some EUR 8,300 per month. I will not turn into the wages of some workers and workers to Gorenje, however, because it seems extremely ugly to them who deserve less. And in doing so, they allowed him not to charge for EUR 3,300. That's for eight net wages because a month you don't have to set up an account and not pay any of that income. This is the information that we give and that we try to take in through this income change or through this law change. Who would that be meant for? The one who does the small things, and so on, I doubt it. But all those who have material costs greater than 25% and income higher than that can keep books. And it's not too expensive to bring down a complete economy. I don't have any accounting services, but my wife is an accountant, and I know what and how they do it sometimes, and what the prices on these things are. It's not that expensive. After all, you prepare a lot of things for yourself. And then these balance sheets, which have to be made professionally, are much cheaper and much easier. But this is for those who do various advisory work where they can't show accounts where they can't show material costs, which with just some quasi-engineering, with some quasi-engineering, they try to legally also by issuing an account from the country to get an exemption of EUR 3,300 a month. It's kind of. If we were to reduce the grey economy, I'd be up for it. But I doubt it would, because someone who works and today tries to work as a small craftsman and some things do this afternoon would certainly be able to meet these needs in a quota of 42,000 euros. And that's why it doesn't make sense so flat and say what we do to support this law because it's going to encourage it and, someone even said, they're bringing extra money into the budget. He won't. He'll cut it down. Indeed, he will bring extra money to someone because he does not need to hide, he will not need to do any offenses because he will have enough of the untaxed resources available or the sum that is, a limit that will not have to prove the costs. That's kind of the point. And I don't think anyone has a private or anyone with a name and a last name, but we're talking about the system. And because it's not good, and because these flatulers don't even know them anymore. Therefore, the response of these people is about 8%, from which we could, as we have heard today. Because this is not in any way attractive and is primarily intended for a possible very, very narrow one. Of course, it will be necessary to resolve domestic trade, to determine in what way. I agree. Of course, it will have to be resolved. It is already being resolved where, of course, there is a lot of own work, where services such as hairdressers, tailors, shoemakers, where a lower tax base is needed, in order to reduce, of course, either the grey economy or, of course, the possibility of earning more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Please, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, I can now find that the last representative of the Government, as the debate draws to a close, has left the Chamber. And I regret that, as President of the National Assembly, you have not protected the position of the National Assembly against the executive branch of power, which is obliged to participate in the meetings of the National Assembly and which has also announced who will participate in this point of the National Assembly. It was written that the Minister would participate, it was written and not written that the Secretary of State would cooperate and that the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance would participate. None of the government's representatives are here. There was no one at all who could comment or substantiate the reasons why the Government objected to the proposal. Why does the government oppose this proposal? I must say that I am actually very strange and only now after this last debate, my colleague Capič makes it clear to me why the representative of the former Director of the Chamber of Commerce and Business and the current Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Klun, is not in the Chamber. Because a colleague had previously debated that those who would benefit from this solution and who already benefit from it were speculators themselves. It is said that the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, 11% or 20% of those using this methodology, which is already available to account for their obligations to the State, are speculators themselves. As long as we have this attitude towards those who are engaged in economic activity, to those who are creating, as well as to the citizens of this country, it is likely that this country is extremely poor. And I note that, in fact, this mandate on this relationship, the state and state institutions to the economy, has made a major change to citizens, a major change, a major deterioration. If, in the previous mandate, we have taken a number of measures that have meant debarcation, removal of administrative obstacles, underestimated matters, abolished certain obligations, simplified the forms, the calculation of income, and so on, there is now a complete death in this part. There's nothing going on. Even more. The proposals that have been tabled, for example, on the basis of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which we have considered at least seven in this mandate, are characterized as inappropriate. Now I ask: Is it a Chamber of Commerce and Business that has, I don't know, a few tens of thousands of members, an institution that brings together people and those who create, just because they're speculators because they're lawbreakers? Is the motive for their association and work different? He's probably different, and I'm sure he's different. However, it is extremely embarrassing when those who should actually produce better conditions, better legislation, simpler legislation, and even cheaper where things are not needed, block things. Here you have also made a blockade, a major block to the development of the conditions for the operation of small and micro enterprises. Because with those measures that you have taken as large, and these are various subsidies for working time and similar matters, these companies have brought great problems. In a lot of trouble! Because there was some measure, some expectation, which was not sufficient and also inappropriate. It's inappropriate, too! For the way you propose it and as you have proposed it and when you criticise that the previous Government has not created enough resources, and for your approach you have taken in these few months of this mandate, no government is good enough. No government can provide enough resources for this way of managing the country to just share and scatter for those you like. There is no State, no Prime Minister of the Government, who could ensure such a functioning of the institutions and system that a team of people will come after him who will share with the insured, the pensioners, the widowed persons by the officers of the Yugoslav People's Army, who will share them, I don't know anyone there in any privileged way who hasn't even paid for our pension fund. Such measures are inappropriate. When we try to provide more suitable conditions for micro and small enterprises, when we try to improve their ability to decide on this process, you are against it. But when we talk about tariffs, for example, for lawyers, bankruptcy managers and so on, you're not against it. We have proposed that bankruptcy managers be included in this law, which would additionally tax revenues, which was adopted yesterday. And you were against it. Those who have sold by law or not Slovenian property and received a few million euros in short time have been excluded from being further taxed. Interesting. I must say, we will not go far with such measures. I believe that this law is one of those who improve the conditions for the operation of micro and small enterprises. If we make it easier for someone to do business and account for their obligations, that is probably progress. Regulatory and control are possible after the current legislation. Because this way of accounting and operating these companies already exists and is being used by several thousand legal entities. That's right. From all the data and all the discussions here, it has been shown that these companies using this accounting model are a simplified accounting model, several thousand. 11% of those who have this option use this model. And that's probably a little over 10,000, according to Mr. Trofenik, a little over 20,000. So it's not a small group of people. And if these conditions were so poor or inappropriate, I guess I wouldn't use them in this part of the economy. Unfortunately, even many of the big words that have been said here in terms of comprehensively, comprehensively and, I do not know what treatment of the measures we are proposing do not stand. When we proposed a comprehensive package of measures to get out of the economic crisis, the government prepared on that proposal 100 pages of answers, why none of the proposed measures were appropriate. Things. For none of the proposed instruments found a positive word, a reason to support it. Not for those who did not need any public funds, not for those with whom we proposed to simplify payment of obligations, for example, from the salaries of S.p. or S.p.'s who have any employees to the state. Instead of paying with nine bills, if they were self-employed, they'd pay with one. Instead of 20 euros, it would cost the euro. Instead of $18 million, if we took the whole system, it would cost, I don't know, a million and a half. This would be 16 million net effects for this economic system. However, there was no need for an invitation to tender and no problem, since everything was paid on the same transitional account. But it's obviously for a coalition that is, like, unacceptable. This is also why the results of the Slovenian state's operations are the same as they are. That is why our result is significantly worse than that of the Czech Republic, significantly worse than that of Poland. These two countries, despite being in Europe and the EU and being hit by this financial and economic crisis, are in business, have something above zero or around zero Slovenia minus 9, Europe minus 3. This means that these two countries are approaching the EU average and Slovenia is lagging behind, and this is a strong one, with two times the rate behind. Perhaps it would be to ask: Is there a structural problem in any budgetary arrangement, or is it a problem for the economy, or does the Government have structural problems with governance and taking measures to organise its work, assess measures and so on? I'm sure the problem here is that the government is unable to assess the priority. It is not able to set a priority, it is unable to take quality measures, but we are only dealing with some marginalities and shifting, especially in the human resources field, so that what worked there for six months is no longer working. Because it is unacceptable that large economic systems such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the Insurance Office of Triglav or the Slovenian Railways have no leadership for six months. And at the same time, when there is no competent leadership, say, the biggest Slovenian bank, we provide guarantees for credits and so on. However, there is no competent and responsible person with full powers to ensure the implementation of the financial measures that the Government has committed. That's why this financial spasm. By not taking the measures proposed by the Government. And we're still talking about financial upheaval. Unfortunately, even those package measures proposed by the Government were empty measures. When you develop this action, when you open it, you actually see that there's a hole in it. That it's just a nice shell, a nice smile, a nice promise and a prediction, but when you open it, when it's supposed to work, nothing happens. Nothing happens. It doesn't take action. This has been said in this Chamber of the National Assembly several times, both by the President of the Government and by the financial and other ministers - the measure is not taken. How, though, should a measure that is so inextricable that it has nothing to hold on to, and where there is no one to whom this measure would specifically apply? These measures only apply to those who do not need money. Offering credit to those who don't need money is an unnecessary matter. However, those who need it do not receive them despite all the guarantees, guarantees, and everything we have accepted in the National Assembly. I believe that this proposed measure, which is one in a multitude of proposed measures that we have prepared in our Group within a few months of this mandate, is necessary. It is a necessary and necessary step to improve the situation in this area. Just as a measure was needed to partially subsidise contributions to self-employed workers in domestic and art crafts, as was the need for measures to facilitate investment, or to stimulate investment, etc. All these measures were urgently needed. And none of these measures have been taken in any concrete way in this National Assembly. I'm afraid we didn't accept it. The Government had a negative opinion on all these measures. In fact, the opinion stated that the Government was studying and, if so, would also consider and find out when. Rapid action is needed in crisis situations and effective measures are needed. And if anything needs to be studied, it needs to be done quickly. The Government and this country do not have time to study for two years which measures would be most appropriate. There's no time like that. And because these things do not take place in such a way as there is no update, because there is also no effective measures, effective measures, we are just where we are. Unemployment is on the rise, economic problems are on the rise. Those who do not need build a superstandard and improve their operating conditions, etc. On the other hand, we save where it is not necessary and also encounter the splendor of the government. I think it's actually hard for the public or the public to explain that there are 100 million euros for, say, the rehabilitation of Istrabenz, but it's very difficult to find 5 million for Mura and three thousand employees. It's very difficult to explain. It is also very difficult to explain to the Slovenian public that those who participated, for example, in making certain decisions, such as the decision to purchase Lehmann Brothers, were not sanctioned, but were rewarded. One of these became the finance minister, the second director of the largest Slovenian bank. There is no problem in determining responsibility as to coalitions. Maybe it would be good. While for others, not so few problems and conclusions, which are more or less also intended, there is an immediate reference to an emergency meeting, 30 signatures, and we are dealing with some things that have a slightly ten times lower negative effect, portfolio, not actual. But this is about real change. In short, I suggest that you support some of the measures proposed in the opposition's parliamentary groups. Not to show solidarity. But because we know that this measure is good, this measure is also consistent with the content of the proposals made by interested organisations. And one of the largest interest organisations according to the number of memberships is certainly the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, which has people who create a large part of GDP, which also represents a large part on the other side of the budget that is being filled, is said through VAT, through income. And these are not some people who represent expenses and expenses. These are the ones that fill the revenue side of the budget. And in the situation in which we are, it would be imperative for those who have this potential to contribute anything to an unenviable budgetary situation to do so. I think we should have taken certain measures in December last year, in January, February at the latest, to allow those who are carrying out economic activities that have not yet been covered by this crisis to function, to increase their programmes and to do more. Because a lot of those who face inequity, problems, have orders, can't actually do them. This is the case in Mura at the end of the day - they have orders and there will be no realisation. In short, I believe that responsible policy should take such measures as actually keep the economy alive, which keep the economic growth alive, which preserves all those who do something good for the revenue side of the budget. And that the objective of a responsible policy is not merely to take measures that are absolutely necessary but are complementary measures. These are measures to ensure social peace and to maintain the social situation of those who find themselves in difficulty despite such measures. The kind that will always be needed. However, these measures cannot be primary. They can be complementary, complementary measures to those measures that sustain economic growth that provide jobs and jobs. In short, we have also faced a large increase in unemployment by more than 30,000. However, job losses are still twice or three times that. For many jobs have disappeared. Because there are no more who would work by work permits for foreigners. In short, the situation is not pink. I suggest you do something else and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Two of them signed up, mag. Andrej Vizjak 5 minutes and then Victory Jelinčič Nobleni 5 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you. The purpose of this law is in particular to facilitate the business of small economic operators in order to grow. So they hire to increase the volume. Without facilitating the operations and positive measures of the country in terms of decommissioning administrative obstacles to these companies, it is difficult for us to imagine that they will do so in their own right. The current governments are also full of promises to help small, micro, businesses dealing with administrative burdens. And not just the fact that the tax will relieve them. This was also heard at the recent trade fair in Cel. And on every occasion there is a welcome act for small businesses, "small business act", which this National Assembly has also discussed on the Committee on the Economy. This concrete proposal for a law is the application of this policy, which in principle has universal support. But the problem with this government is that, in principle, it takes on many things. However, when there is a concrete initiative or a concrete project on the table, there are reservations. Sorry, it is so easy to develop any policy that we are in principle in favour, but no one in particular feels it. And here I fully agree with the Member of the Slovenian National Party, who said that if the current Government helps entrepreneurs as much as it has done so far, they will all soon "sink". We can rightly be concerned about trends in Slovenia. Look, we've only been following the data on Pomura the last time, where part of solving this situation in Mura is supposed to solve self-employment. Some new initiatives within the framework, first of all micro-enterprises. If we don't relieve the bureaucratic tax at the beginning of these smallest ones, then they won't, or even those who have, will close this thing. I also understand that in some golden times, times of conjuncture would be justified, perhaps to grow a little more scepticism against these solutions in times of crisis such as these. Indeed, these small entrepreneurs face a number of other problems, such as the decline in order, such as payment discipline and so on. Of course, it is necessary for the country to jump across from them. What it calls for is a positive attitude towards these proposed changes. In other environments, we also face bankruptcy. Many might also start a separate business trip. That's why they need help. We have proposed a number of measures in the past. He's the one who's on the table today. Others are also so-called tax holidays. This means that in the first few years such economic operators would gradually be taxed. Not immediately full, first slightly symbolic, then slightly more and only after two, three years higher taxation. No, any proposal in this direction is rejected by the rulings at the full mouth of support to micro-enterprises, small businesses, entrepreneurs and so on. This duality is seriously bothering me. I don't know much of any action by this government that would go against these segments of the economy. However, we have discussed a number of initiatives in this direction and, most of all, it will be in my eyes and I have been disturbed by the thinking of our fellow Member, Cappič, who has actually labeled this microsegment of entrepreneurs as a group of speculators who are there, who are normalized because they simply avoid paying taxes because they speculate and so on. So the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which included this request and put this proposal among its demands, behind the back and in the defense of the speculant? I'm asking you. I don't think so. These are good people who will sometimes be middle-sized entrepreneurs, not just small ones, and so let's get them some help.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. This is a proposal or the seventh request of the Chamber of Commerce. And while Mr Klun was still in the pre-election fight, Mr Pahor supported him with all five and gave him help and told him how he would pull it all together as he needed to. Now that this matter has been filed by the opposition, there will be nothing in this law. And if the coalition were to file it, it would be the result, all Members for, no one against. Now that the opposition has submitted this, the result will be about 30 Members in favour and more than 45 against. This shows the duality of the Slovenian Government, which on the one hand does not understand and does not know why it goes in the economy at all. On the other hand, he does not want to take any initiative that comes from the opposition if it is that good. As far as he doesn't understand things, I understand. When we look at our government structure, we see that, in fact, none of the leaders have one hour of working time in any working organization. They either fell from political chairs to government chairs or from academic chairs to government chairs. They were always just on budget money. And they don't even know that money has to be made. They know that money has to come into their pocket every year, and whenever it comes, it's always too small. Of course, I am sure that Mr Squeakl is also standing here in the back room to a large extent, which he does not care what happens now. After all, he is preparing or forcing Mr Pahor to go to the Vice-President of the European Bank instead of Mr Rope, where he would have an estimated EUR 20,000 net salary. Monthly, of course. That's ten of his wages. And all the savings we had last night, you voted for us yesterday when you took the clients' money for political work. Payment discipline, which is one of the cruel issues of the Slovenian small economy, is primarily a large one. The government won't do that, of course not. Because if there is a payment discipline here, it won't be possible to fit 100,000, 500,000, 1 million euros, 5 million euros and so on. Then it won't be possible. Therefore, it is necessary to maintain such a system. Therefore, it is necessary to qualify those who work and who do not have the seized and stolen millions over different variants. Those should be qualified as cheaters as speculators, as some colleagues say from the coalition say. Small economies in many countries are the solution to the situation in the country itself. We don't understand this and we won't understand it. Taxation, which is incomplete. Instead of simplifying everything, no, God forbid we simplify it. We're back in the same business. For if things were simplified, then those with good ties in coalition parties would not be able to sneer and cheat. But most of those who are honest are hit by this tax screw when it comes to writing 10 or 15 bills or 20 bills for one small matter. That's all that's stupid. Then, say, various forms of bookkeeping. Instead of doing what's right in Switzerland. In Switzerland, you don't have to broadcast any more leaves, bills when you get out of the coffee shop or from some inn. Just because they have three categories. It's definitely worth about that much. That's what he says. He's gonna pay that much a year. The one who earns so much more will pay for the second category. And third and so on. If he works harder, he'll put more in his pocket. If he works less, it's his business. The state knows exactly how much it gets. But we could have laid off at least a hundred pounds of employees who don't do anything anyway. All they do is fuck with those who want to work. And God forbid we go to any great lord to dig through the papers. That's not gonna happen. But if any small or small craftsman says anything, he'll have six inspections in two months or seven. And barely one inspection will go through the door, and the other one will go in. I mean, what's going on with us is in the middle of common sense. And interestingly, once again, if this were to be done on the coalition side, we would all vote in favour, and so the law will not be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Friday, 25 September, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the top of the agenda, this is the first defence proposal for a law on the publicity of the acquisition of functionaries, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 15 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposed drafters of the law, Zvonko Černač, for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u135	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, on 16 June this year, we tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on public property of officials. The aim of the law is to ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and preventive action in the area of corruption and clienteleism. The law therefore provides for the publication of the assets of officials on the Court of Auditors’ websites. The law would prevent various manipulations and deal more effectively with corruption. The law provides for officials under this law: Members, members of the Council of State, President of the Republic, President of the Government, Ministers, State Secretaries, Judges of the Constitutional Court, Judges, Prosecutors of the Republic of Slovenia, Governor of the Bank of Human Rights, Officers in the services of the National Assembly and President of the Republic, Officials in the Government, Officers in the services of the Constitutional Court, Officials in the Supreme Court, Officials in the Court of Auditors, Bank of Slovenia and the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Officers in other State bodies and mayors, and subordinates in the local communities. The provisions of the law also apply to officials, former officials who have ceased to function and are still receiving compensation under the law. It also specifies the extent of the application, where in most cases the limit of EUR 10 000 or more is set, and in particular the separate application of securities or shares in companies. Especially in view of those registered in the Clearing House of Deposits, which are more or less public and transparent in our country, and especially those not registered in the Clearing House of Deposits. The government has been designated negative by law. There is quite a claim in this negative assessment that does not contain serious judgment. One of these concerns a decision of the Constitutional Court, or some of them related to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which was published in the Official Journal on 13 April 2007. However, it refers to the judgment of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity adopted in the previous term and, in the same way as this proposal, to the publication of the assets of officials. However, due to the constitutional assessment initiated by the opposition's then-members with the first signed Merrani Potrč, it did not enter into force. And the government says here, but this claim refers to the 31st point of the decision that the Court of Auditors, of course, cannot be an appropriate body to ensure the publication of this public property of officials. This point detracts from this claim because, on the contrary, it states that the Court of Auditors is appropriate for the performance of such tasks because of its independence. The law was positively defined by the European Central Bank, which concluded in its opinion of 27 July that the provisions of the law would not be incompatible with the principle of the personal independence of officials concerned by the law. In the work relating to the application and publication of the assets of officials, the powers of the Commission to prevent corruption shall be transferred to the Court of Auditors and, in the rest, the powers of the Commission shall remain. So the commission does not resign, it remains, even though the truth has not lovingly excused its mission. It serves the current ruling policy to discredit individuals who are not compatible with the ruling political option but rather to prevent corruption. In explanation of the law, the president of the National Assembly, Paula Gantar, said that they had no problems with the SDS initiative and added that he was convinced that some were defending it with a large lump in their throat. Since the declaration is a criterion for the duality of the applicants, all Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have made their assets public and this is more detailed than the proposed law provides. And what happened? Instead of public pressure to publish the assets of all other Members and officials, in particular rulings, the harshness of the criticism of a large part of the media has been directed against those who have their assets without imposing this law on them. Suddenly, the problem became those who wanted to legitimize transparency, not those who hid their assets from the public on foreign postal containers, as did President Zareza and Minister of the current Government Gregor Golobič. In this case, it was not about a few hundred or two thousand five hundred euros, as was the nominal share, but it is estimated that the market value of the Dove’s stake in Ultra Sum is around one million euros. And just because a new Golobič from Zares or any other party does not happen in the future, this law needs to be supported. If you do not support or oppose the ruling coalition of this law in the Reals Group and others, then you will prove definitively that your principle and transparency are just a dead letter on paper. If we had thought differently, we would have followed the Slovenian Democratic Party and everyone would have similarly published their assets and supported this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The text is by Dr Branko Lobnikar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, distinguished Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has received a proposal for a law on the public property of officials submitted by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank for consideration by the National Assembly. The Government opposes the proposed text with the following arguments: First time. With the proposed text, the proposers shall again, indirectly, terminate the Anti-Corruption Commission, which is contrary to the existing legislation and international acts adopted by the National Assembly and in force in the Republic of Slovenia and is also contrary to the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court. Another time. The draft Law on the Publicity of Officials imposes supervisory tasks on the competent committee of the National Assembly and on the Court of Auditors, which, in view of the division of the principle of power, is unconstitutional, as already established by the Constitutional Court in its decision No. 57/06-28, where the Constitutional Court, as a non-constitutional judge, has assessed a solution whereby tasks in the area of monitoring the property status of officials, enforcement determine the irreconcilability of functions, operating restrictions and restrictions on the acceptance of words would be carried out by the body within one of the branches of authority and by the Court of Auditors, since this is not its legal jurisdiction. Third time. In defining the content and personal validity of the proposal for a law on the public property of officials, the Government assesses that the proposed content is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in terms of disproportionateity, as it unduly interferes with the right to constitutional protection of the personal data of officials, as already established by the Constitutional Court in the previously cited decision. The proposal for a law on the public property of officials shall only be subject to partisan rules in an area which the Government and the legislator are obliged to regulate in accordance with the contested decision and with international acts. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will make this area more comprehensive and systematicly appropriate, especially in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court and this year in the Integrity Act. In addition to the content proposed by Members in their draft law, the integrity law will also regulate the composition, functioning and competence of the Commission to prevent corruption, to protect applicants of illicit behaviour, to persuade against interests and to control the acceptance of gifts. Detailedly and precisely, and in accordance with the spirit of the proposed law, define the control of the assets of the officials and provide the public with information on the assets of the officials. However, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, it has identified integrity plans and has regulated the area of lobbying. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law on the public property of officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u139	Respected and respected! Slovenia seems to be waking up. Labour protests in Gorenje and Mura may encourage new expressions of discontent. We are aware that the accumulated problems that we face with all seriousness in the government and coalition are great. We are working honestly and hard to solve individual cases, from case to case. We take the lack of confidence of workers and workers in the institutions of our community seriously. We will do our utmost to achieve greater efficiency in resolving the economic situation and to restore people's confidence in this country. In the meantime, the opposition has plenty of time to make an impression. Unfortunately, we don't have time for impressions, because we are solving problems, many of which you have created with your decisions and policies. Social Democrats are never, and so not now, when we are in power, we are not hiding from transparency. All of us have reported our assets under the law to the anti-corruption commission. However, many of us have also disclosed information about the property situation to the public and the media. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the draft law on public property of officials. First of all, because it's another one in a series of attempts to end the anti-corruption commission. Secondly, because we will not contribute in any way to the detection and prosecution of corruption by such a law. Thirdly, since the solutions provided for in this Act are contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court if they are not even contrary to the Constitution. Let us be very clear. We want and will regulate the transparency of officials' assets. Above all, we will be fully committed to corruption on the tail, not only among officials, but also within the state administration. Our Government has approached the preparation of a law on integrity governing the recording and control of the assets of officials, including the origin of assets, governing conflicts of interest, the prohibition on the granting of business, businesses and associated with officials or their family members, is governed by lobbying and the newly defined position of an independent body to detect and prosecute corruption, i.e. the anti-corruption commission. We are doing all this in order to ensure that the country, by upgrading the existing model and not by abolishing it, as proposed by the opposition, pays the utmost attention to strengthening the integrity of the public sector as a whole. Therefore, to ensure that employees and officials perform their duties in a fair and professional manner. We well know that corruption inhibits social development and is fundamentally detrimental to the good development of the social and moral values of people. Last but not least, the duty of each of us, every politician and politician is truthfulness and honesty. We answer to our constituents and voters. However, truthfulness cannot be demonstrated simply by an honest answer to our property. We need to do a lot more about this and that. In the introduction, I mentioned confidence in the public. A type of public opinion survey proves that people trust the Commission to prevent corruption. Among other things, this proves the answer to the question of who they would report a case of corruption to if they found out about it. Because the Commission to prevent corruption is second only to the police. We have the strength and determination to strengthen this anti-corruption system in our country and not to give up attempts to decommission the anti-corruption system dressed in a shiny populist cloak. We will not support the proposal of the Social Democrats Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It's only allowed to speak for this pay phone, obviously, anything. Let's go to the position of the SDS Group. We have already considered a law with similar content in the past mandate period. At that time, we heard some untruths that we could read in the newspaper. And apparently we'll hear them today. What was in the Slovenian newspapers back then? The coalition shuts down Kosovo's commission. The coalition supports corruption. It's a two-way coalition and stuff. Looks like we're going to be seeing this today, too. Therefore, in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, let me tell the Slovenian public once again - the law which is before us and which has the title of the bill on public property of officials does not abolish the Kosovo Commission! Let me repeat: the law does not abolish the Kosovo Commission! Let's move on. But it is right to tell the truth about what this marriage brings. The bill brings many positive things. Among them, it ensures the public disclosure of the assets of all officials and their circle, at least at national level, does not rejuvenate. The public is the one who will be the best and fairest judge. We have also seen this in the case of President Zares, although the coalition and he acted differently. Another time. The bill provides very effective control over the assets of officials by an independent body called the Court of Auditors. Come in. The bill ensures the functioning of the Kosovo Commission within the framework known to other European countries. Slovenia is currently an exception to the functioning of this Commission, in particular in terms of asset control. I'll explain this in more detail later. The decision of the Constitutional Court has already been cited today. But the quote was flawed, so I'm going to complete the quote. Decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the assessment of the constitutionality of the Act on the incompatibility of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity, which was issued 13. 4. 2007 Of course he says a lot of things. But among other things, let me quote this: "The Constitutional Court has already pointed out in its present constitutional judgment that there are bodies and organisations in modern constitutional systems that cannot be classified according to their organizational characteristics as one of the three branches of government. These authorities and organisations have an undisputedly high degree of autonomy in their respective constitutional systems, in relation to any classical branch of government. This is also the case in the decision of the Constitutional Court No 158/94 explaining paragraphs 21 and 22. However, due to their constitutional functions, they have an important impact on the functioning of the system of balances and so on. They should therefore be taken into account in the assessment of the contested regime in the light of the principle of division of power. In particular, the Constitutional Court says that what has been obviously overheared or not received. This is: "Such bodies are the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors." So the Constitutional Court is also talking about the Court of Auditors. Let's do a few more things, because I am, or at least I have a chance to look into a number of corruption research, as does the Secretary of State. Some cases need to be mentioned. And of course it is also necessary to mention the reasons why the situation in Slovenia is so. One of the studies covered all Slovenian, I think, labour and environmental inspectors. Inspectors are whether they are researchers, those researchers were asking the first group of questions about the state of corruption in Slovenia. Of course, more or less they replied that corruption is bad or that corruption is very large. However, when researchers asked them how many times you have experienced corruption in your workplace, of course it is people who may be potentially subject to corruption, we are talking about inspectors, and they have reported very clearly that this is very little in their work career. Let's move on. Many studies will show you that you have a big gap between understanding corruption, understanding the presence of corruption and the actual level of corruption. The gap between the concept of corruption and what the police are reporting is even greater. Even greater than what is reported by the prosecution and even greater than what gives birth to an effective court. This is actually a phenomenon that is also logical. It's nothing special. It's probably similar everywhere. Many studies talk about who you trust the most. In Slovenia the answer is clear, the Kosovo Commission. But that's absurd. Why is it absurd? It's a public opinion. [[Can you calm Mr. Anderlich down? Thank you very much.]] This is the normal situation in Slovenia. The Kosovo Commission, as an institution known to us as it is, also creates a public opinion on its effectiveness by creating a public opinion on corruption. I strongly agree, and as a positive reference to the Kosovo Commission, I stress this, especially if you listen to me, in particular, that as a positive attributable to the Kosovo Commission, the effect on public opinion, because this is also the real thing, which is also the real task of the Kosovo Commission. And this law does not take up these powers. In a way, I am expressing my appreciation to this committee for the part that speaks of prevention, which speaks of caution, which speaks of the impact on legislation if you wish. So, all of what it creates, which raises people's awareness, which affects public opinion on corruption. Because public opinion alone is one that can also effectively prevent. It's a positive effect, at least in my opinion. Of course, what is called principled legal opinions is not a positive effect. Why not? See, Kosovo's commission, in so-called principled legal opinions, which are either a special Slovenian offence or whatever they call it, pre-creates the belief among people that person A, person B or person C acted corruptly. Here's the problem. Therefore, all the statistics show that the reports published by the Kosovo Commission speak to a large number of suspicions of corruption. The Kosovo Commission does not publish names. Of course, it is not difficult to obtain names from data available or under the table, however, journalists usually publish them. Look, here's the problem, because the Kosovo Commission reports on a large number of suspected acts of corruption, but when these suspicions come to the police desks in police investigations, there's no more. We think it's a corrupt act, but there's that, and we have that, and we have this evidence that it's a corrupt act. The police cannot and must not act like a Kosovo commission that thinks and evaluates. But the police have to back up criminal charges with evidence. That's a much harder thing to do. And that's why for the first time there's a big gap between what the Kosovo Commission thinks and what the police give away. The next step is the prosecution. The prosecution in many cases of corruption committed by the police to the prosecution has attached to the police. However, there are also quite a number of cases where the prosecution considers that there is insufficient evidence to prosecute such a corrupt act and that fewer criminal charges have been brought before the court since the prosecution. So there's less to the investigation. So a new gap between the suspicions of corruption that the Kosovo Commission marks for this and between what comes to the court. Of course, the conviction is much less. As a matter of fact, we know only the former secretary of state and someone else who was then found guilty in court. So that's the problem. With this, I wanted to tell you where the polls clearly say that we trust the Kosovo Commission. That is how public opinion is and we cannot change public opinion. The original sin for such a condition. In particular, the public and all of us should trust the authorities that have the tools to do so. This is the police, the prosecution, the judiciary and not Kosovo, a commission that can only think, consider or evaluate in principle or what it is called. In this regard, therefore, I am criticising the work of the Kosovo Commission with these principled opinions. I have no problems with Kosovo myself when I was appointed in 2004. In the next case, I want to show you the holes we have in our existing legislation in my own case. In 2000, I was appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and notified all my assets to the Kosovo Commission in accordance with legislation. After the departure of the Bajuk government, of course, I was no longer an official, but I became an official with the Government in 2004. Of course, I took out all those forms, which they are called, what did you report to the Kosovo Commission in 2000 to fill out everything that was necessary." And look at the fraction of it, I come to the point that in 2004 I have less to report than in 2000? Why is that? Because I bought an apartment for my son in the middle. I didn't know the law exactly, and I asked the Kosovo Commission whether I had to report what I bought to my son, that's his apartment. The answer was no. You must report your assets. Of course, I reported my assets because the response of the Kosovo Commission is correct. I have nothing against him. I have no problem with that answer. But I would like to remind you that we have such a law today. And any of the officers can pass it on to their child. And as if to tell the Victory "nothing" or no one. The law before us also eliminates this flaw. The Court of Auditors will be able at any time and anywhere to invite the official to submit the assets of its spouse and child. This problem is solved here, too. That's one thing. Let us see how the institution is similar to the Kosovo Commission elsewhere in Europe. All those who claim that we are abolishing the Kosovo Commission, let me once again say that it is not true, the Kosovo Commission remains and gets the European image, nothing else. Let me just list four countries. As far as officials and their assets are concerned, in Austria the Supreme Financial Audit Institute for their Court of Auditors is what we propose, nothing else and no Kosovo commission or similar institution that Austria has. Portugal, Constitutional Court, you will not believe any Kosovo-type commission. France, the Committee on Financial Transparency of Policies, does not specify exactly where it belongs and where it knows the authorities. I don't know that either. And in Greece, for example, even a fine has been imposed, or the removal of a Member's mandate, if he misreported the property. What is prescribed for us? Nothing. Public lynching, that's all. Let the law provide for what sanctions provide for sanctions and that is logical and right. Of course, it is also necessary to say that, again, I repeat, and I will probably have to do it again in the end, and my colleague Cernač will also have to repeat 100 times that we are interfering with the current Kosovo Commission with only a few articles where we take the responsibility of controlling the assets of the officials and that part is transferred to the Court of Auditors. The law, which establishes and speaks of the Kosovo Commission, remains intact. And that is of utmost importance in this law. This will probably have to be repeated many more times. So we exclude only the part that talks about controlling the assets of officials, and we transfer it to the Constitutional Court. So we're tolerating this, I'm sorry, to the Court of Auditors. Such a solution is in no way contrary to any arrangement, division of power or anything you want. And with no constitutional decision so far. On the contrary, the Constitutional Court expressly appoints the Court of Auditors in its 31st paragraph of the previously cited decision as an appropriate institution. So that's the thing. As far as the Kosovo Commission is concerned, it retains fully the role similar commissions play elsewhere in the world. All of it. I repeat, fully. So our purpose is what? Our aim is to exercise effective control over the assets of the officials, to be supervised by the Court of Auditors as an independent body. Even more, we add surveillance instruments to the Court of Auditors, and we even give teeth to the Court of Auditors if I can compare them, compared to why we allow sanctions to the Court of Auditors. We're allowing him to pronounce them. We did not go as far as the case in Greece, so that someone would lose their mandate because it would probably not go through with it. So we give the Court of Auditors effective tools. The most effective tool, the most effective tool anyone who can read will understand. This is the majority of Slovenians, and this is a public publication. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who has nothing to hide can make it public anywhere and at any time. And whoever's against public disclosure of such data is probably because they have something to hide, not because they don't want to hide anything. So, public disclosure. But you know that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were the first ones to do this and show it on our own case. Sadly, after that, a research journalist was involved in writing one small or more shares. But he didn't deal with those MPs who said no, and that's not what you're interested in. That's not what I'm gonna say. You should probably deal with those. So much for presenting your point of view. I urge you to support the marriage and follow it. Once again, for all those who have not heard me, the Kosovo Commission does not abolish this law. It makes it comparable to similar institutions in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u143	Your Honor! We all know in this National Assembly that we are preparing and that we are just ahead of the consideration of the law, which will fully answer all open questions. And who won't go partial, like the law we have today at our disposal. This marriage has a seemingly beautiful purpose. But this partial approach is primarily intended to prevent a comprehensive solution to the entire web of open problems. The proposal for a law on public property of officials provides in particular for the delegation of powers relating to the application and monitoring of the assets of officials from the Commission for the prevention of corruption to the Court of Auditors. This would also result in the transfer of technical material and other assets, archives, records and other related documentation, which is contrary to the constitutional decision of 13 April 2007 already mentioned or mentioned. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will systematically and comprehensively regulate these areas in the Integrity Act. In addition to the composition and functioning of the Commission's powers to prevent corruption, to prevent conflicts of interest, to control the reception of gifts, it will also regulate the supervision of the assets of officials. The proposed law before us thus represents a modification of only one chapter of the future Integrity Act. For this reason, we cannot really support this law in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group or DeSUS. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your correction. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal of the Law on the Publicity of Officials is as follows. In our view, officials and officials in our country must already report their assets. This area is governed by the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity which, according to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, is disputed in a particular part. Therefore, the last implementation of certain articles has been delayed and has even repealed a number of articles. We all know that the previous Government has sought to dissolve the Commission to prevent corruption under the pretext of representing an unnecessary institution. Obviously, both the law and Kosovo have been the commission for some. Therefore, in the previous term, they were tried to be destroyed by the adoption of that law, which, as has been said, has already experienced the repeal of the type of its decisions by the Constitutional Court and has demanded the abolition of the found unconstitutionalities. Of course, it extended the application of that law and also the functioning of the Kosovo Commission. Undoubtedly, the requirements of the Constitutional Court, the ratification of the anti-corruption convention and other international obligations of Slovenia require us to actually strengthen integrity and transparency and to regulate the extremely pressing issue of corruption and its prevention. Because the fact is that corruption in Slovenia is present and is spreading. The drafter of the Law on the Publicity of Officials follows these requirements in a certain direction and cannot therefore be fully rejected. Some solutions are weighty and meaningful. However, in general, the text of the proposal is not ripe for our support, as it also contains substantial inconsistencies and incomprehensibility, which certainly cannot be supported. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on this proposal, also drew attention to the essential shortcomings of this text. Of course, the DeSUS Group agrees with its arguments. Besides that. The Government has approached the drafting of the text of the Integrity Act, which is intended to regulate this area in its entirety. Therefore, both the composition, functioning and competence of the anti-corruption commission and the protection of applicants, the control over the reception of gifts, including the supervision of the assets of officials. I would also arrange lobbying, misdemeanors and fines for all of this. However, the text of the proposal under consideration, as in our Group of Members, touches only one area, which is certainly contrary to the principle that the rounded areas of life are systematically regulated in one place. In short, our DeSUS Group supports the proposaler's idea that it is necessary to approach the regulation of this area in a short time, i.e. immediately. Of course, we also agree with the Government's argument. Therefore, in the hope that the government will in fact shortly draw up a proposal for the envisaged Integrity Act, the proposal now being considered by the Public Administration Act will reject and support the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u147	Well, hello, all of you! In the Slovenian National Party, we object to the adoption of this law for a number of reasons. First of all, the obligation under this law to report information on the property status of officials is to collect and process the Court of Auditors. That's controversial. The Court of Auditors is carrying out an audit on the use of public funds. And the property of the officials is private property. That's an essential difference. The law also states that the data contained in this law are public regardless of the restrictions imposed by the law on the protection of personal data and tax confidentiality. It's a bit of a dispute here, too. The Personal Data Protection Act has been adopted for a certain purpose and it is unreasonable that its provisions for officials are not now applicable and for all others. I'm not going to let everything go right in this marriage. A lot of things are bad, a lot of things are stupid, but that's the way it is. But we certainly can't have double criteria. For people like that, for officials as a special animal, it's different. It's not working. Also, the fact that the data is published on the Court of Auditors’ website is not good. Once the officials have filled out the forms with what we have in our property, this is a matter solved. The publication on the Court of Auditors’ website will serve only criminal matters, so that it can precisely determine the target matter to be stolen. Let's say I have a picture of Rembrandt at home, and it'll say, "Yeah, fine, so we can pick it up there and so much," and there'll be more break-ins than there already is. Of course, they are now breaking into officials more in the domain of Slovenian intelligence services and similar matters. But then they'll be in the criminal domain if they don't even start dealing with intelligence. Yeah, I don't know, anything's possible with us. I'm not the one looking for my property. I report everything I have to the Kosovo Commission. If he doesn't like it, let him come, look, I'll make him some coffee on my account and nothing else. That's quite enough. I am not in favour of, I do not know, what kind of specialists of the Court of Auditors or the changed specialists of the Court of Auditors who would then meet them as employees of the Ministry of the Interior from Prešeren's 18th or in their own words, criminals who would sniff out what some criminal spheres might be able to communicate, what should come to Jelinčić. This too has happened so that no one would think that no, I speak from experience. I'm just not in the mood to dig into the property of children and wives. Let's take the case. For example, someone gets divorced, gets into a fight with his wife, his wife takes everything away from him. And then, because, say, he hasn't finished the whole process yet, these specialists come to his wife to look for what he's got and what he doesn't have. My wife's suing an ex-husband who hasn't finished the procedure. Because he leaked her personal information. Musar jumps to the ceiling and, of course, sues the husband. The husband gets three hits on the head, and the reactions and the actual benefits won't be any of that. Maybe this case is a little extreme, but after all, it's possible. In Slovenia, anything is actually possible. What if we define this matter from another point of view? If it were, say, for two same-sex partners, things would be so much easier. Because by civil law it is possible even that this is a blessed relationship concluded in the Roman Catholic Church, there will be no such thing in the case of the same - sex partners. That's supposed to happen sooner. We are not in favour of such a screw as is required by the opposition party SDS. It's about restricting freedom. Slovenian Members and officials have already limited freedom in companies, in the establishment of companies, in the ownership of companies and so on. The restrictions are horrifying. The restrictions are so terrible that no legislation in Europe knows them. Not even the legislation of those countries that are not yet in the European Union. And I think it would make sense, without cutting down the branch that we're sitting on every day, just as we allowed Mr. Squeak yesterday. And besides our client, you've all supported it because you were afraid of what people would say. People laugh at you and say, "If someone can't take care of himself, how can they take care of me?" And they're right. Who cares about people today? None. And you don't know each other. And that way, there'll be nothing. Cankar said that "the position after the petition is known." In the Slovenian language, which is understandable to the National Assembly, that means, "if you have it under your thumb, that's what you're worth." And if you're poor, you'll be engulfed by the poor. If you're rich, at least the poor will leave you alone. If that's what we're looking at. It's a cruel view, but it's true. Equality with poverty doesn't lead anywhere. The equation with poverty and the equation on the lowest common denominator brought us where we once were, and we went out of there. That's why marriage doesn't make sense. After all, the Integrity Act prepared or prepared by the Government will certainly be full of "foolishness" that will apply to us, but not to certain caste lords appointed by the Government. After all, if we look at it, the law on these pay cases does not apply to judges, it does not apply to the prosecutor's office, it does not apply to the lawyer's office, it does not apply to the doctor's office and what else could be found. It's untouchable. Those of you need to shave something, because maybe I'll need them, and so let the Slovenian nation pay, just so that at some point I have what I want. That's sad. And instead of settling matters differently, we are somehow getting closer to thinking about as powerful a police state as possible. If we want a police state - let's have it in those areas where order will be made, where thieves will be hunted, where millions will be hunted. Not those who steal a piece of bread and a piece of salami because they're hungry. There will be more and more, and prisons will be filled. Of course, it is said that a new prison will be built, perhaps if one of the "great" spheres is closed. Although I doubt the hell anyone's gonna be in there, because he's about to deal with the court's version at the very beginning. After all, you have already forgiven them, in advance, that they will raise so much money by the end of their term of office that it will not be necessary then to pay to the various judges that the judgment will be more pleasant or similar. I think the law is incomplete, I think it's the law - although the idea is in principle not bad. But the principle is one thing. The actual situation is something else, and after all, the road to hell is pressed with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill to ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and effective preventive action in the field of anti-corruption. It is proposed that all officials, including the President of the Republic, the Government, Members, Ministers, Notaries, Judges, report on their assets to the Slovenian Court of Auditors. The official should submit any increase in assets exceeding the sum of his net salaries paid at the time of the last application. All this information would be published on the Court of Auditors’ website following a proposal for a law. In the SLS Group, we understand the proposal of the Law on the Public Properties of Officials as a good purpose for the outcome of corruption, which has apparently also been very disruptive in the field of public officials. Since we believe that every successful democratic country must effectively prevent corruption and customerism, of course we support this bill, but we ask ourselves what is with the so-called financial police, who are checking those who are not officials, and who are getting rich from nothing overnight. Where did they take it? On whom did they take advantage? Well, that's probably some other law, some other legislation. With regard to the proposal of the Law on the Publicity of Officials, we find it interesting that the Government has given a negative opinion in this proposal on the grounds that another law is being drawn up, which, of course, will regulate this content more comprehensively, in short, much better. All fine and proper, and we would also support a law that would regulate the composition, functioning and competence of the Commission to prevent corruption, protect applicants, control over the reception of applicants, control over the reception of gifts, control over the assets of officials, integrity plans, lobbying and so on, but there is no such proposal. However, the proposal prepared by the opposition party is, of course, not appropriate in the opinion of the Government, but even earlier in this year. So let me get back to the proposal of the Law on the Publicity of Officials' Property. We do not have personal reservations in the SLS Group to make the data public and the options to publish the data are, of course, more. This is not necessarily the Internet and this is not necessarily the Court of Auditors’ website. Possible options still need to be considered. However, we do have our own opinion on those publications on websites that have shown an unrealistic picture from afar. Transcribing property to a wife or husband or another family member and then making some unrealistic information public is certainly not fair or transparent. What it's meant to be, we know. And we do not intend to join Members of the SLS in doing so. The public would also support the data on the assets of officials so that there would no longer be a variety of assumptions and unlucky valuations of assets, since each media house can, in its own way and just a little bit after the assessment of the assets of an official, then publish it. And with such a publication, the untruth becomes a fact. Where are the fence borders, in my house, in your wallet, not to go on? Too many have been harmed in this way by those who have earned their wealth honestly. Those who know how to play the system and the legislation are, of course, successful in hiding. That is why we, here in the National Assembly, have to adopt good legislation that will not be possible to play. Nor can we simply go beyond the opinion of the Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, which points out that the individual articles of the proposal of the Law on the Publicity of Officials do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on the Court of Auditors. Finally, on behalf of the SLS Group, I should only add that we may be able to curb corruption and customerism by means of such a law. However, in order for such a law or its implementation to restore the general confidence of the public in public institutions and public officials, we do not believe. To achieve such an effect, all of us officials should take a closer look at themselves, be self - critical, and think carefully about what we may be doing wrong, and what else we can do for our fellow citizens, for our people. Then maybe people will trust us again and no matter what kind of car any of the officials are driving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u151	Your Honor! The Republic of Slovenia has already joined the first countries in Europe to form an anti-corruption commission, following the recommendations of the international institutions of 2000. A resolution on the organisation of the United Nations in the fight against corruption and the type of activities that took place was adopted later. Today as well as many proposals that have been tabled by the most opposition party on the subject of regulating officials' assets and fighting corruption, it is as if Slovenia is all-in and all-individually corrupt. That is why this issue needs to be kept on the agenda. Despite public conduct, the public knows that the Government has been preparing the Integrity Act for more than half a year. That, on the basis of both the Constitutional Court's decision and some of the other recommendations that have already been discussed today, it has taken a systematic approach to this issue and has regulated all the things that should be regulated in the law that they have named the Integrity Act. One gets the impression that he wants - but if you say a hundred more times that it is not about abolishing a harmless tiger, what the Kosovo Commission is, the Kosovo Commission is a toothless tiger - but when it repeats itself a hundred times every day, and I still don't know how many times it has been guaranteed that it is not about abolishing the Kosovo Commission, it actually says that it is a basic wish. However, anyone who has at least monitored certain activities without delay will be the National Assembly, the Government in the previous term, and also some debates, is a thorn in the heel of Kosovo and its Commission. But, as we say, everything you want to settle can be arranged, it needs to be arranged, and it is intended to settle. I don't know if this material is already visible on the government's or the ministry's website. I know that since February or March, there have been several versions. In the end, you will not believe that one problem was that this law would not already be in the procedure, on the agenda of both the Government and the National Assembly. It concerns, in particular, those sitting on the "two chairs", namely, the compatibility of the function of the Member and the Mayor. And if we could get rid of this sooner and make a deal, I'm sure this law will go into procedure. Like, I think, the Law amending the Law on Members has now been introduced, which is supposed to address this issue separately. All other issues relating to both mayors, Members and all others should be addressed in the Integrity Act. And if this behavior is also with you and I believe that because I know that there are formal and informal links between each other and that the National Assembly discusses what would happen if the compatibility of the mayor's and Member's function were banned in 2010 or 2012 and how best to arrange, say, for all, both those who do so and the political parties represented in Parliament is best. I know that the problem with the compatibility of the MP and the mayor has been on the agenda ever since this became compatible, from the very beginning, when we introduced the local self-government of this guy, as we now have. But all the political parties have calculated what is more valuable to them in the state elections, or whether to put mayors on the list in order to get more votes in that environment, as well as vice versa, or to give Members to the mayoral elections, because this can bring more votes. And we could also raise a question related to integrity and also to the issue of declaring assets, incomes and avoiding conflicts of interest that could lead to non-transparent remuneration of individuals who are holders of public functions and, as a result, not reporting and publishing in a transparent way all that is available. I'm not in favour of passing laws with arguments holding a thief. More. Through this interpretation and the constant repetition of one and the same question, it seems that only those who talk a lot and point a finger at others, how everyone else is corrupt and, I don't know what they are, are real. Everyone else is a badass. Is it not possible to confirm something else from the examples, at least in the last four years? I think it's a lot, not just a case. But these are things that will come in one way or another and will be cleared up. But we're here to sort these things out in a way that will be transparent, so that the system can be controlled. And in the end, everything that is unscrupulous, contrary to the laws, morals and so on, will also be sanctioned. Believe me, in the Liberal Democracy, we will support a law that is, and I believe that, in the draft, the Secretary of State or, I don't know, in the proposal, presents whether it is really this fear that the Government can, however, protect, I don't know what the interests of the ruling Members, ministers and associated people, as it has been here today, have been heard by the people associated with the ruling suit to protect them, and that, therefore, it will never be, that this purpose is serious and that it will also regulate everything that this law does not regulate. Either it makes sense to regulate in many laws the same, similar, or the matter that is being upgraded, complemented, and should also be settled in one place, of course, is another matter. As it is said, we are not opposed to regulations that will deal with what is already happening, so that the public does not think that there are no systemic frameworks in Slovenia for registering assets, for controlling them, for sanctioning irregularities. As I said at the outset, appropriate or specific arrangements have been adopted since 2000 to help prevent both conflicts of interest on the one hand and, of course, the unwarranted property obtained primarily from public function holders and thus greater power to the resources or to what is available elsewhere. We won't support the law as such. As we say, we will continue to debate and you can hold us in mind that things will have to be regulated both in accordance with the 2001 United Nations resolution and some of the recommendations of both the Greek Council of Europe and all others that have been dealing with corruption issues for longer than in Slovenia since the moment it was necessary to end. Some think that it is only then that we are dealing with the fight against corruption when it is necessary, or it has been suggested that Kosovo should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Černač spoke on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Well, some inaccuracies were expressed in this entire presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, as well as in the presentation of the Government's position. Several times the claim was reiterated that this law abolishes the anti-corruption Commission. That's not true, it's clearly evident from the law. That part of the tasks of this Commission shall be transferred to the Court of Auditors relating to the application of the assets of the officials concerned by this Act. In all other cases, the Commission retains its powers to prevent corruption. Although it is necessary to tell the truth lovingly once again, as I said at the outset, that unfortunately this Commission has not played a preventive role in the area of corruption and the principled opinions that have been generated during its periods of operation have previously led to another direction, in the direction of some kind of discredit, of mud. There were many cases that were of a minor nature. However, these great things have somehow not been found in the preventive sense nor in their confirmation on this committee. Whatever you do, you will have to decide this time whether you will allow such ineffective action to continue or change it, making it more effective. It's your business, it's not a matter of opposition. We just wanted to offer a hand in order to ensure greater transparency in that field and where there is no need for some major procedural matters, this matter should be dealt with immediately. It was said that the solutions to this Act were illegal, referring to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was published in the Official Journal on 13 April 2007. That's not true either. This law is not unconstitutional and has no unconstitutional solutions. Not particularly in the part where there was a speech on the possibility that this property could be published on the Court of Auditors’ website or in the part where it spoke about the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. In this 31st point, the Court of Auditors then assessed the transfer of powers to the Parliamentary Commission and, in this regard, stated that "the Commission of the National Assembly also supervises the officials of the State authorities, which the Constitution provides them with an independent and independent position, and the National Assembly has no direct or indirect powers or powers in relation to them, and so on "because of their constitutional functions, they have an important impact on the functioning of the system of brakes and balances of certain authorities in that country". And it was specifically mentioned that there are two such bodies: the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors as a body which, through its constitutional position, could guarantee independence in the case of the tasks entrusted to it by this law. It is not concerned about family members, only if the public official concerned by this law transfers this property, conceals it, then this validity extends to family members. Otherwise, no. There is no need and this is clearly stated in Article 4, paragraph 4. The law also applies to judges. I think that's right. Look, it's not long before the judges in 11 days awarded bankruptcy managers 2 million 300,000 euros in prizes. I also do not understand this fear on the part of all parties to the ruling coalition who are afraid to publish their assets. The presidents of all these parties announced public property before the elections. And we have been able to read in a number of media about the property of the President of Social Democrats Borut Pahor, Katarina Kresal, the president of LDS, Karl Erjavac, DeSUS, Gregor Golobic, President of Zares, where we read that he has one share and that of Pivovarna Laško. And where we read that he owns a four-bedroom apartment in Ljubljana, which he bought four or five years ago for 120 000 euros and is 100 m high. And because we haven't read anything about shares in Ultra Sum and similar companies. And if this law were then in force, its assets, which it had concealed, would have been confiscated, at the level of several million euros, to the extent that it was worth. This would be the result if this law were passed so that such an official would no longer be present. Not like that, not otherwise. And that, in my opinion, is the main reason why you object to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. The public's assets are good. I will say the necessary transparency of the property situation of all those performing such functions, for which there are at least two reasons. The first is that transparency and transparency of high-level assets constitute the most effective control over the prosecution and disclosure of corruption. Secondly, if we put all this property on the altar of the public, there are fewer speculations and manipulations. The public is interested in what is hidden from the eyes, what is hidden from the eyes. I'm sure the press will still have a lot of work to do, despite the fact that we're going to publish all the data. For it is known that although some perform important functions, they hide and cover their data. The press will have some of the data published. But they will be able to explore what someone hides and hides and what happened a few months ago when a high-ranking officer was caught on a lie. We have seen from these that the new paradigm of this government has become a lie. And whatever law we adopt, whatever action we take in this direction to make property more transparent, transparent, is good. And I don't know why you're so opposed to this proposed law. The zero tolerance of corruption is what everyone in this country should write on our political flags. I think it is good that the Court of Auditors becomes the institution that will collect data on the financial and real property of all officials. On the one hand, she's highly qualified. People who know how to read this information have an understanding. On the other hand, it is an institution that has an extremely high reputation in the public. Today, something has already been said here about the reputation of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission. I think it is the reputation of this commission that the reputation of this commission is based mainly on its accepted work for the media or, on the other hand, on media servitude. The law provides that data on the assets of an individual official shall be published on the Court of Auditors’ website. This ensures the transparency of these data. I think that's good. We are also on our website, Members of the SDS have published information about our assets on our website and nothing has happened to us. Not to me, anyway. Article 6 of this Law is also important. I am talking about the first paragraph, which says, "If, at the time of the last declaration, the official has increased his assets by more than the sum of the net salaries paid for the performance of his office at that time, he is obliged to explain at the time of the application how he has come to the increase of his assets." So the official must prove and explain how he came to increase this property, not to seek and explain it to a supervisory authority. This supervisory authority, the Court of Auditors, will just check it out. This is, in my opinion, great progress. Of course, we are building on the assumption that all the officials, including us, are honest and that it will not be difficult to explain to anyone how we have come to greater wealth at some point. Either we got it on the lottery or we inherited it or we got it something else. But those who have already come into politics have nothing to hide, of course if they have come to this property with good work, with innovation and ability. It's over. Today, there will be many more escapades about how this law is an attack on the anti-corruption commission and on the dear Kosovo. Let me repeat, the anti-corruption commissions are in no way overturning this law. But if that's not enough, I suggest you support this law, and you place the dear Kosa on the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Rezman? [[He's not here.]] Mr. President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I have already indicated the direction in which we are thinking in this law. I would now like to lean on just one more aspect that I obviously disagree with the applicants. This is the fourth paragraph of Article 4, which speaks of the common property of the family or personal property. Of course, I advocate the principle of family, family life, not just children. The family also means some joint management of some property acquired before and during a joint stay. In the event that, after some miracle, this law predates the first hearing and receives a positive light for the continuation of the proceedings, I will actively and actively cooperate with my colleagues in allowing the Court of Auditors to request information on the property of family members. However, these data must be given in advance in the first round. On the contrary, the data is definitely distorted. We always give this information to the Kosovo Commission. This year, we gave them to all possible journalists’ houses, and there is a huge shortage of all this information everywhere. I'll go on my own case. Among other things, he's asking me about real estate, where I make it clear. I own the property of a semi-residential house. But the difference is whether the rest of the apartment house is from Janez Novak in Lendava or Postojna or my wife or my son. That's a significant difference in my judgment. And in the event that it is part of the property or most of the property owned by, for example, my passenger life, there is no such data in this set or set of assets. Thus, in the event that this law happens by chance in the second reading, because according to the opinions of colleagues from most of the members or all of the coalition's members, this will not happen, so in this case we will be defending, even me personally, the property of the family, not the property of the individual official. And there was also a shortage of data previously displayed by counterpart Cernač as publicly published data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Blackach on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u159	There would be no confusion as to what is stated in Article 4, paragraph 4. It reads: "If, compared to the data submitted with the actual situation, it is reasonable to conclude that the official of his assets or income with a view to avoiding supervision under this law may be transferred to the family members, the Court of Auditors may require the official to provide him with the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article within one month of receipt of the request." Something similar is already happening in the current legislation, a little differently. This is a European comparable provision which does not affect the legal rights of family members. However, it prevents the assets to be controlled from avoiding such control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you. Dr. Lobnikar has the word on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I'll continue where the motioner has just finished. I would like to read the fourth paragraph of Article 45 of the draft law that we are preparing and which we have promised will be put to the debate this year. It refers to what the Member of the Slovenian People's Party and others said, Mr Jakob Presečnik and others, as regards the assets of the members. That you will see that in the Government we do not oppose the idea that the party has, and that everything they have written in the party of the proposer, is not bad, because they duly copied from our proposal. It reads as follows: If, when comparing the data submitted with the actual situation, it is reasonable to conclude that knowingly among its assets or incomes with a view to avoiding supervision under this law, we can, here we have written: The Commission, in order to prevent corruption, requires it to provide within one month of receipt of the request to the Commission, not to the Court of Auditors, with data from the 6th to the 12th indent, which we have listed in the previous article also for all family members, and we have a very precise definition of what family members are and not only what is written in this bill. The opinion of the parliamentary groups has repeatedly expressed the need to regulate this area. The fact is that this area is regulated in Slovenia. The fact is that there is no Kosovo commission in Slovenia, but the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. And those who will read the text of the Integrity Act that you read in public debate, you seem to have skipped the transitional provisions. You wouldn't have to write the "at persona" law. Because these things are also resolved in the transitional provisions. We will define this area more comprehensively and more precisely, which must also be linked to other areas. This is because of the incompatibilities of the function as well as other areas such as lobbying, etc. Why haven't we done this before? One of the reasons is, in fact, hiding in what the LDS Member said. The second is that the bill drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is indeed comprehensive and systematic and is written on the 60th pages in relation to the 16th page of the proposal that we are considering today. If we want to do something good, one that will hold it for a long time, that will not rumble again and again to the constitutional court, then every matter needs to be carefully thought out, thought it out, and then accepted as such. And we are preparing such a law in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will put it into debate and acceptance for Members and Members of the National Assembly. Mr Gorenak spoke about the public opinion. Of course, Ambassador Gorenak knows very well that every crime is not a crime and that every corruption has no sign of a crime. For this reason, any opinion that speaks of the suspicion of corruption does not mean that signs of an offence are given, which is pursued under official responsibility. But it is certainly what the Member of Parliament has said. In view of the fact that one of the neurological points of the existing Anti-Corruption Act was also the issue of so-called principled opinions. Not principled legal opinions, but principled opinions. We have regulated this area, as a proposal from a proposal by a proposal from the Constitutional Court stated that those who can be identified in this principled opinion will have all the remedies for protection and defence that have not been possible so far. And another thing about the suspension or non-refoulement of the Commission to prevent corruption. The fact is that a body such as the Anti-Corruption Commission can be abolished by adopting a law and abolishing it, or by taking away all their tasks, all their personal and all their money, and then saying, in any case, they are totally unnecessary, because they are not doing anything and that is the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, I didn't notice you being named. Yeah. That was the attitude. Mr. Puksich. He's not here. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and a nice greeting to the representative, the State Secretary of the Ministry. I would like to say that this marriage is very interestingly designed. I must say, I can just follow up with the representatives of the Ministry, who said nicely that you can stop an institution by taking her money away. This experiment was made in the previous term and then failed to take all its powers away. This experiment was carried out in the previous term and stopped by the Constitutional Court. And now once again, most of the powers are taken away by the proposer and transferred to an institution that has nothing to do with such activity. But I'd say something else here. The essence, as I have rightly understood, is not that the Commission's competence to prevent corruption is transferred to the Court of Auditors. But the point is that the assets of the officials will be transparently shown. If the objectives of the applicant were to be so crystal clear and transparent, of course, I would introduce this provision on public disclosure of information on the assets of officials who must make this publication possible or submit data to the Commission for the prevention of corruption. This one's supposed to make it public. When the official takes office and declares his assets with the commission and then every year when his assets change substantially as provided for in paragraphs 36 and 37 of the Act. In this case, the proposer could only propose an amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act in Articles 36 and 37 of the Act, if this is indeed the right and only objective. When we talk about the claims we have heard today, which are purely lies and I think that in this high choir, in a body elected by voters in Slovenia, we should not lie. Thus, the first lie was that it was not preventable for officials to transfer their assets or that there was no sanction if they transferred their assets to family members. That's not true. For this reason, the fourth paragraph of Article 37 states: "If, compared to the data submitted with the actual situation, it is reasonable to conclude that the official of his assets or income with a view to avoiding supervision, after this law, may be transferred to the family members, the Commission of the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Commission, request the Commission, within one month of receipt of the request, to submit the information referred to in the preceding Article also to the family members." Another fat lie was that the officials were not, could not be resolved if they kept secret or refused to disclose their assets. In Article 39, the whole procedure is written down as to how we come to the end that the official is relieved of his functions unless he fulfils all the necessary actions in time. Otherwise, it takes three months and three months and so on. However, in the end, the penalty shall be that if the official who has ceased to function does not submit the required information within three months of the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the payment of the refund shall be suspended. Interesting. So, even after he's been sanctioned, he's relieved if he doesn't deliver the data back. In fact, he can be punished by not getting that celebrity. In the meantime, his salary is reduced until he reaches minimum income. I do not know whether those who claimed this, today in this Chamber, have not read the law or have deceived the dedicated Slovenian public - that we will use a milder term - because they say that the word of lies should not be used in politics. Although I don't know why we shouldn't name children by their real name when someone does something. The third lie was that judges did not have to report property. I think that in Article 4 - if I am not mistaken, I will find that I will not - first in Article 3, where the definitions of what is who and so forth are, in Article 2, I apologize: "The officials under this law are Members, members of the Council of State, President of the Republic, President of the Government, Ministers, Secretary of State. The gentleman here too must probably report his property, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the judges, the state prosecutors, the Governor of the Bank and then even the Director of the Health Insurance Institute and the Director of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, specifically referred to in the following article. Please. Let us be at least so right to each other, and especially to the Slovenian public, that we do not declare the existing law a disabled person. But if we feel like there's something that needs to be sharpened, that we need to publish this information in public, OK, come on. But, please, let's do what has to be done. It is not, however, that you rediscover the Anti-Corruption Commission through the side door, which is the basic purpose of this law. You can tell me it's not true that you're canceling the commission. It's not true you're canceling the commission with this law. Of course not. It is true, however, that you take away from her a whole lot of her very important powers and thus the harmless tiger we heard about in the previous term at least 150 times so that this toothless tiger loses its tail and claws.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Blackach on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u165	The law in force, which is discussed, has eight chapters. Eight chapters. And one chapter from the Anti-Corruption Commission is transmitted to the Court of Auditors. One in a few articles. That's what this law says, and it also comes out of a valid law. In my opening remarks, as a proposaler, I have explained everything in detail about who this law refers to. However, in the existing law, paragraph 5 of the Constitutional Court’s decision to dismiss an official is reserved. So that this matter is not disputed either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you. Trophynik, Žnidaršič, Mr. Frangež. Here you go! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u167	First of all, I would like to remind you of what is the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which is armed by the applicants of this law with another important power. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is the highest audit body with control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure in the Republic of Slovenia. Article 20 of the Law tells us that the Court of Auditors is revising the operation of users of public funds. It follows that, of course, the Court of Auditors in the legal system as we have it does not have any similar function as the applicants of this law wish to give to the same Court of Auditors. In this respect, I would like to recommend, because I think we have in the past introduced solutions that were incomplete into Slovenian legislation, and I think that we also have a very, very complicated country, which is a stumbling block to development rather than an accelerator and a guarantee of strong and quality public services. In today's debate, the opposition is trying to create the impression that we are not speaking the same language. We are on this side of the hall advocates of imprudentness, and I don't know what else. I would like to make it very clear that we have always been the Social Democrats and, even today, we firmly stand in the position that the greatest possible transparency, integrity and integrity of all public function holders must be ensured. In doing so, I am very realistically aware that there has been no power so far and that the current authority is probably not entirely immune to corruption and clientism. That's why we want to make these things whole. The Anti-Corruption Commission gives teeth - as we would like to say - and this with the Integrity Act, which, in view of the assets aspects, fully tackles the issue of the persecution of corruption. The conflict of interest, the ban on the granting of business to companies associated with officials and their family members, the regulation of lobbying. It is, therefore, that component, often a problematic component, which is often somewhere on the border of legality, which is so far completely unregulated in contrast with many European countries that have these things regulated. Otherwise, let me say one more of my beliefs. What I'm about to say is I don't have research and data. I think that public officials are not the only potential focus of corruption and clienteleism. That this may be significantly lower in the public administration and in some cases in the public sector. I know a few cases where, because of the decisions of the administrative authorities, someone was given priority and then speculated whether someone had been paid for it. I think that these are also dangerous and socially burdensome phenomena of corruption, which, of course, we are talking significantly less about. The integrity law not only solves the issue of public officials, but also issues of public servants. As it is said, for these reasons and reasons, which we have previously presented in the position of the Group of Members, I will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, Slapnik, they're gone. Mr. Žerjav, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this law myself because I think it is a step forward when we talk about the publicity of officials' assets, but I must admit that I personally feel very uncomfortable. I also felt uncomfortable when the Ultra affair broke out and the lie surrounding Mr Golobic's assets, when we had to give each and every one of the media a special explanation of our assets, allowing insights into our applications, so to speak, to the Kosovo Commission and many times more detailed than was prescribed by law. On the basis of these data, some have gone on to allow this property even to be valued on the basis of some contrived assumptions. So many times these grades have been very, very wrong, so I won't say trendy, and then the comments are such and different, if you have a little, you're incompetent, but if you have a lot, you've stolen everything anyway. And I felt uncomfortable mainly because of this negative connotation, you know, because that's how he stole everything. Everything I have personally, I have brought into politics or even more precisely; everything I have was created by my family, including my parents and my wife, before, of course, I came into this dirty policy. If we are looking at the property, we certainly need to look at the matter in its entirety, not only in part. Well, you have to watch your family's property. Because a person gets the feeling that some people are really poor when they have nothing. This marriage and no marriage, unfortunately, will not prevent anyone from lying about his property in the future. No law will stop it. This is just a matter for each individual and his morals or his integrity. But I am in favour of the fact that there is a limit in this area, even when we talk about our property. We Slovenians are just like that we like to gloat at the expense of others, and we should avoid that in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr. Kontic is not here. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I fully agree with all the thoughts expressed by my predecessor. These are the views and thinking of normal people. But when we have a proposal for such a law as this, which is not intended to regulate certain relations and areas in society, because the opposition knows what the range and the possibility of their success is, but it follows precisely the objectives set out in this story. Such debates as this one are one of many, taking the reputation of politics to all: both to the left and to the right. I think that this case, as far as property and crime are concerned in Slovenia, is at an enviable European level. Some people are disturbed by the fact that the anti-corruption commission has a great reputation among people. I think it's good. However, we certainly still have great reserves in the field of effective law enforcement; this is what the police say, criminal work and at the end of the court's decision. Above all, all these procedures should be completely free of charge from politics, and most importantly, they should be substantially faster. When I read these articles on presidents, ministers and others in certain Slovenian financial and other more yellow media in the past, what kind of property is written there. The man is very concerned and would like to join Mr Jelinčič, whom I most often disagree with, who said that if people who were not able to take care of themselves at the age of fifty-six years, they would probably not take care of society. The last such hit and the top of the story were, of course, the elections of the European Members. Even among the people, such debates give an impression, as if in politics, in parliament, the mayors share fabulous salaries, of course they are quite high in those times, but there are many other public sector reserves in the control of wages. If, for example, the directors of rural health homes in Slovenia earn three times, four times as much as the mayors, whose worker is certainly longer and harder and less free hours and vacations, then there is definitely something wrong with this system. If surpluses are shared in those companies where the main owner of the country is, of course, it is also necessary to check. If the director of a factory owned by the majority of the country has twenty, thirty times as much wages as those who work hard to live, then there is definitely something wrong with this system. I have to say that I felt really bad when he was - in the narrations - in Tednik, in Vecernik a few days ago "to be interrogated" by Mr Franjo Bobinac. A respected, capable Slovenian manager, an economist who runs a multinational, was interrogated there as a primary child and said frankly and honestly that his salary is, of course, about ten times as much as the salary of his employees on average. This matter is perfectly fine, purely correct, it has only one small defect: Slovenia has to work hard, not how we will help people to survive with social assistance, but that even those who earn the worst deserve enough for a fair and solid survival. But if, of course, their director deserves a few times that much, there is certainly nothing wrong with that if, of course, those below have enough to live a solid life. This is the biggest defect that I see right now in the Slovenian space, that, of course, the ones at the bottom are simply too small. All such political debates, as they are today, will certainly not contribute to any concrete political solutions and to the reputation of politics, nor will such laws, which are designed to make it appear that someone else should be able to cut off their heads, nor will I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Franco, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Apparently, the saga of cheap demagogies continues today. It continues to be in an interesting context and to a certain extent dangerous, as the drafters of this law serve something that is seemingly very megalist, certainly legitimate, parliamentary in the context of an event where the main party of the opposition has an interesting role. This party has always branded certain institutions that ensure the transparency of the rule of law. It is not the first time they have dealt with the Commission to prevent corruption. This commission was a tough nut in the time of the Janša government and has also found a number of indiscretions. This was disturbing, but not only the so-called Kosovo Commission or the Anti-Corruption Commission, other institutions were also at the blow of the SDS political lynch. For example, the ombudsman and also the Court of Auditors, which is being offered in this law today as an alternative to the so-called Kosovo Commission. Several times, they were betrothed to something we did not claim. None of today's debaters, including the Coalition's parliamentary groups, have said that this law wants to end the Commission's anti-corruption agenda, but they have repeatedly, and this denial has been repeated in turn. In fact, they have issued some bad news resulting from an attempt at institutional disarmament of that commission, since they have taken away some powers from this commission, some options that are very important. And this is happening somewhere in that gray zone between the Commission, between the work of the Commission to prevent corruption and the emerging law on integrity. They are aware that if this law is on the table, it will be clear that the Government is systematically and comprehensively addressing the problems that exist, which we all feel. I am the first to make public and to make public all the details of the official salaries and all the benefits and privileges that concern state officials. We're up for it! We're here to prevent any abuse. We're up for it! And we are also confident that the law that arises will provide a comprehensive solution to this problem. But if we go back to this social and political framework, in the context of which there is also this attempt at partial resolution, which is essentially just a reason, an opportunity for a debate that is necessarily demagogic, because it is placed somewhere "ad personam". Earlier, he thinks that when he mentions Golobi's problem, he again pointed out what the law is intended for - in particular, it is aimed at publicly discrediting something that was neither illegal nor so seriously concealed, because we know that Mr Golobič, taking into account the law, has notified his assets to the competent authorities. So let's stop speculating with this story, which has more pay and some salaries are still not clear how, how this story was manipulated, how it tried to discredit someone at the expense of a lie - the lies around this story are really big - and how the main opposition party today is trying to create some kind of emergency situation at the expense of a serious question that needs to be addressed systematically. And perhaps it is not the case that this is happening in Parliament, while the SDS president, in a long interview with the STA today, is essentially trying to ride a tiger of understandable dissatisfaction of workers and workers, is trying to abuse the street in order to speed up this emergency situation. Interestingly, yesterday this same president branded the biggest unions and appointed them as the lakhs of rulers. Of course. In the 1930s, these samples were very visible. At that time, it was in the interests of the authoritarian parties to create conditions that would devalue the rule of law and the democratic state. And that's it. When we delegate certain institutions, either trade unions, acting as intermediaries between workers, capital and government, or when we delegate the anti-corruption commission, or the Court of Auditors, or the ombudsman, or the judiciary and judges - this week we have witnessed such attempts - we are trying to take the right into our own hands. And what the SDS does these days is systematic and very interesting. I also congratulate my colleagues from SDS, they work very coherently, they have multiple units, one unit operates in Parliament, another unit operates on the ground. However, the Chief Commander criminalises unions, criminalizes the government, criminalizes the judiciary and tries to prove to us that there is no other way than a revolutionary path, creating revolutionary conditions. The people who have a mouthful of the evil of the revolution are the real, only heirs to that revolution. And this revolutionaryism is constantly present in these debates. There's one more thing that's very interesting. We now have a law where trying to transfer part of the competence of the anti-corruption commission to the Court of Auditors, just recently this same Court of Auditors was problematic when it found a real deficit in the final accounts of the 2007 budget. Today, I read that the Court of Auditors again found even worse holes in the budget in 2008. You know that 2008 was the main year of the Janša government and that the year of the mints was the year of small prizes to succeed in the elections, but this did not happen, and somewhere in November a new government took place. It'll be interesting to analyze this situation now. In fact, there is an even greater deficit than in the previous budget. And now I wonder if this same party will be as consistent with respect for the Court of Auditors' findings as it is to defend the transferability of these powers from the Commission, which has been a disrupting factor, and it is normal for the public to trust the so-called Kosovo Commission. Well, thank God we had it. She's exposed a lot before and even now. But, of course, every authority, and if the opposition is actually imagining a near takeover, regaining power, of course, it is also necessary to provide a place where the opposition will act smoothly. Therefore, the grading of these institutions, which ensure transparency and which ensure and prevent corruption, is constantly on the wallpaper. Thus, this law, which I repeat, has some acceptable aspects, beautiful intentions, beautiful purposes, just a reason, is only a way to open one debate, which is then returned as a boomerang against those who have managed this country and spent public money by the end of November 2008 and then hope to claim that they have left a good legacy and a good legacy to the current government. Even then, they claimed there was no crisis. In fact, there was a crisis and they were already spending money. And today we are actually faced with the consequences of that irresponsible government, which is now being expressed in an attempt to destabilise everything that is meant to normalise development. And the integrity law, you know, is the right step in the right direction. You do not want to anticipate or prevent it with such a debate. I doubt that you will succeed, and I doubt that you will also know how to capitalise on this opportunity, which you consider to be unique, so that there are still few principles for the reputation of the current government and its leading politicians. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u174	Mr Juri, I must remind you that the basis of political culture requires, for the first time, not to take such great trips away from the topic under discussion. And secondly, if you're going to go with tough convictions to judge people, to afford it when they're there, not when they're not there, to at least see if you can look them in the eye. There's no replica. Mr Chernač has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I think I can look everyone in this room in the eyes, including France Yuri, even you, Mrs Potter, if you have been in a dilemma to this day. Not to me, not to me. And those things that have nothing to do with the law that we are considering today and some of the wishes of some who would like to bring about a revolution in 2009 have no point in discussing. It must be said, however, that the President of the National Assembly and the representative of your party, the pardon, the parties Zares, Paule Gantar, supported this law when it was introduced on 16 June and said that you have no problems with it. Like a client. Now we hear that you have major problems with this, your biggest one must be your President Gregor Golobich. Because what I was talking about - I was talking about that if this law, as we have on the table today, were to apply when the presidents of the current parties of the ruling coalition, as well as everyone else, in the media, presented and disclosed their assets - here I have the Finances on July 8, 2008 - if this law were then in force, on the basis of what President Zareza Mr. Gregor Golobič said, when he said that "I have 1950 euros net salary, I have some property somewhere in Primorske - 22 000 m' which I bought in 1998 for 53,000 euros...", etc. "I gave EUR 121 thousand for an apartment, four rooms in Ljubljana five years ago, and I kept one share of the Pivovarna Laško from a certificate for maintaining a commercial account." There was no mention of these co-ownership shares in Ultra Sum, the value of which was estimated by the Finance Officer to be around EUR million. What would be the result? As a result, if this law were to be in force, a fine would have been imposed in accordance with Article 13 in order to bring the value of assets not declared or clarified. According to the local authorities, such assets would be seized. We already have similar provisions in the existing Penal Code, just the question of who is using them. And this is about public officials and the consistency to do a little more hygiene in this area. And that's the purpose of this law. If this law had been in force last year when this information had been published, and if it had been published just as flawed, in such a way that the essential part was silenced, the sanction would have been. That's what I'm talking about, no discredit, no mud, nothing. And we also now have a law that says that public officials, if there is a discrepancy between the value they came from, when they started to function, and the value from which they leave this function, must be explained by the year from where they came from and how they came from. Of course, this explanation is not bound by the one who writes that the value of some asset is EUR 2,500 and the actual value is EUR million. There's not much to explain. And the purpose of this law was solely to ensure greater transparency in this area. What did she find out? A number of irregularities have been identified by the Commission to prevent corruption in recent years. Really?Oh, my God! She found a bunch, I don't know what to call it, of discrediting individuals who weren't compatible with, let me use this term, left. That's what she found out. Did this commission find anything at the time when the story with the builders, who were connected to each other in the negotiation of various construction works, happened? It wasn't until after the proceedings began that the president found out or said, "Yes, yes, because we have some material, we copied it and we've forwarded it to the criminals." Has she found out anything in other cases where it is possible for individual actions to occur, whether in any way or not, that poses a threat to public finances in one way or another? We've listened to a variety of stories about reporting liver sausages and a bottle of wine and I don't know what. Please! I think we're still so serious that we know what the point is and what's not the point. However, it may have been the achievement that the President of this anti-corruption commission was one of the main players in this politically dirty case, Patrio. Maybe that's the achievement you're taking for granted. If that's the case, say it out loud because you've been warming up all this time if you have nothing in here. Obviously, this is an achievement for you, because obviously this activity here was very large. Court of Auditors. The Slovenian Democratic Party shall respect the decisions of all the bodies, all the audit bodies, the Court of Auditors, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, all those responsible for certain procedures in that country. This does not mean that we have no right to say if we feel that something is not as it was. And this was the problem of the closing account in 2007, when the Court of Auditors found that, during the budget expenditure of one of the four public finances, no return was made to the beneficiaries of telecommunications. Where did this return come from, from the Ministry of Finance? No! No! It is a task, payment was made to municipalities of the Slovenian Compensation Society. And how can the same expenditure be recorded in two cash registers, in the Court and in the state budget - it cannot be. And if you may have listened, my dear fellow, we have recently considered the audit of the Court for 2007, where it has been clearly stated that this expenditure has been made available to them and their audit has been positive. And Banka Slovenije recently said something similar in her report. And if we go to see all four cash registers so we don't argue about it, the surplus was created in 2007. It is not necessary to argue about just one cash register; it was four, and on all four it was created. Then we can't argue whether it was in one or not. But that wasn't important either. The deficit of EUR 9 million is expected to be, according to their findings, a surplus of 37 million. This will lose weight in the light of the EUR 2 billion you will generate this year's minus, and the EUR 5 billion you will generate this year's debt. These are all the numbers we could only look forward to if you could reach them. That's why I don't think it's right for you to operate on data like this. What is most bad for me is that you are trying to somehow instill in us some subterfuge of how the Slovenian Democratic Party does not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and how the Slovenian Democratic Party does not respect the audit opinions of the Court of Auditors. They did. Like you, we have the right to express our views on all of this, especially if we can even argue it; and in this case we have argued it. This law, which is now on the table, is the law that is supposed to bring about this greater hygiene and greater transparency in the public sphere. I really don't understand why you're so afraid of him and why you're so opposed to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, did you want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u177	Mr President, first of all, the question whether this was a debate or a replica. Does he have the right to a replica given that he mentioned me? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u178	Now you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u179	Okay, I'll make a procedural proposal first. Mr. President. You spoke of a political culture, but you forgot to warn Mr Chernač that he had already mentioned Mr Golobic twice without the Minister being present. Secondly, I mentioned the Member. And if the Member is not in the Chamber during the debate, that is not my problem. That's your problem and his problem. My procedural proposal is, call your Members to work, to attend, to be here and to listen. And let them look into their eyes. I'd like to look them in the eye, but I didn't have that privilege today. So this was a procedural proposal. But I'm calling in for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you. First, let me say that this was a pure abuse of the rules of procedure. There is no proposal I should put to the vote. Secondly, Mr Juri and others also apply, please be aware - and former journalists and journalists - know this well, it is a big difference to mention facts, or also to quote persons or individual facts to give. But something else is to give heavy judgment or even judgment. In the National Assembly, not only you, Mr Juri, in general, it is so often very confusing that I think that political culture is very low in this regard. Now you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I repeat, I like to look into the eyes of the interlocutors, and I will do it now. Discussions take place several times in the National Assembly, where debaters fly from the subject matter of discussion, and this is mainly the case on this side of Parliament. So, this note that was addressed to me is irrelevant today. I didn't hurt anyone. We can see the tape. My grades are my values, and I have a right to them. And I don't know if the Vice-President of the National Assembly is the one who can say what's allowed as a valuation or not. But I take your call for knowledge and I agree with the part where you call for a political culture that we must take into account in these discussions. Well, because I replicate, I think this debate is very interesting, and because it's always on the wallpaper itself -- and it's expected, "deja vu" -- Minister Golobič, I would like to invite you to read all the data. You know it wasn't just Mr Golobič who publicly forgot to tell us how many shares he had. Here's an interesting table that was published in the press. Even you, Mr. Sugar, have forgotten shares here, 480, family shares - nothing. I don't know what that means. Does that mean you haven't made it public? Then Zvonko Černač, forgotten shares - 250. What's that? I mean, I don't understand. Marjan Bezjak, Eva Irgle So, they all had certain amnesia at a certain point. What's this all about, anyway? So, let's be straight with everyone. I know it's very grateful to pick a target and shoot that target because it's the most disturbing target for the biggest opposition party. But speaking of political culture, let us be correct, objective and, above all, self-critical. There's a little bit of that critical distance to your own mistakes, that's not it. We're all too confident, too confident, sometimes this self-esteem is misleading.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u182	Well, now I'm going to afford a replica of my own as an MP for your statement because you named me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u183	Our so-called research journalists have found that I, too, have not reported certain shares from those certificates that we have received from all citizens, which is worth €800. And, of course, they hung it on the big bell to make us forget. Nor did I announce an old car worth €1,100 - maybe; nor did I announce the skis and rollers I have. You know, reporting property is a serious matter. And I think, Mr Juri, that we should also read the answer that I sent to the Youth and did not publish it, but it was published on the website. So much for your knowledge, Mr. Yuri, that you are so attentive to our actions. Sir, procedurally, but please, I will interrupt you if there is no procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u184	Procedurally. Procedural question: Can you replicate the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u185	As an MP, not a replica, but a replica of another, he shouldn't, and I should, because you mentioned me in this debate. Mr. Blackach on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u186	Yeah, buddy Yuri kind of came in with the right word today. It's been a long time, but we've heard a new policy of Zares that's kind of going this way: don't look at me who stole the factory, look at that poor guy who stole the sandwich. That's what his words sound like. What he discussed referred to this story, published in Magu on 20 July, the Transparency of Janša’s soldiers was the title of this article. By the way, the denial under the media law has not been published, but it has been a matter of citing the minimum value shares of individual Members and, above all, the family members of individual Members, who are also subject to the existing legislation and also under this law, which we have on the table today, do not need and will not need to be reported to any commission and not to be made public because there is a certain minimum amount from which the property is reported. Here in this article, private data was published in this newspaper and in such a low way as was published in the case of our Member, for example, that she forgot: "Two of the Members have 67 shares of Holding Vipa, for example, the Member has denied the publication of the sister shares, which is not commendable for her." The value of these shares is some €10, ladies and gentlemen. The value of all these shares, which the research journalists, who are all booked in the KDD, that is, in our country, not on the post office in the Netherlands, does not reach a percentage of the value of what is on this mailbox. It's all worth a few hundred euros. That, that's the story, and that's a real comparison, honourable Member, to what I've been talking about! While I didn't speak in the way you said, and I didn't speak in the way that I said this -- I don't know what I would say to him -- a brewery paper or something, because it's a shame for Slovenian journalism what's written in here repeatedly; but I was speaking on the basis of data and I hypothetically assumed that you would know what kind of marriage you have on the table, what would happen if this law you have on the table today was enforced a year ago. In particular, I have shown you on a specific case what would have happened in such a case. And of course the matter went even further, in this it was not only Mag, on the first page of Del, on 20 July, was also published by our colleague Jože Jerovšek, with a picture - tycoon, did not report, I don't know, some hundred and nineteen certificate shares of Infond or I don't know how this company is now called after the new name, Infond Holding, and so on. This, look, ladies and gentlemen, I'm ashamed to be sitting with you in this room right now, Comrade Yuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr Lobnikar spoke on behalf of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I went out for a while because I wanted to check some things out. I counted a little. I would like, if you'll excuse me, Mr Vice President, to begin with repairing Mr Yuri. Mr Chernač, the President of the Party, has not mentioned him twice, but three times, he has been mentioned by the other members of the opposition, and you have mentioned him three times in person. When I went out to check, however, the question was whether the Court of Auditors was the body to which it could be transferred today in accordance with the Constitution and the law, those activities which were prescribed in the proposed law. The view is that the transfer of these activities to the Court of Auditors is incompatible with the existing Constitution in the Republic of Slovenia, with the existing Law on the Court of Auditors and with the purpose for which the Court of Auditors was established. I got an opinion from the President of this court. That is why, even in his view, it is more appropriate to address this issue in a systematic manner, as proposed in the Integrity Act. And allow me to compare the text that you will receive this year's Members to the tables and to compare the text you have on your table today. It is not true what the proposer claims that this could have happened, which could have happened if this law had been passed one year ago. But it will be when the law on integrity is passed. In fact, when we are talking about data that includes a list of assets, the information in the proposal for a law of Members and proposals prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u189	Mr. Grimes, you're very sensitive when someone talks when you're talking about a pay phone. I'd like to ask that you're right for others.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u190	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In fact, eight points are identical. [[...]] The proposal of the Government will contain one additional point, namely, the share of indirect ownership of companies, which can very clearly show how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia really feels about transparency and how, as with the proponents of this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia understands transparency as a value, while at the same time it needs to be regulated to protect others by the law of the guaranteed right, such as the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you. My friend Chernach said he was ashamed because he's sitting in the same hall where I'm sitting. I would like to state that I am not ashamed to be in the same hall where my colleague Chernač sits, but that it is a great pleasure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, a replica of the replica is not possible. Excuse me? As a proponent, you speak? That's me. Here you go. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u194	If my colleague Yuri is calm, then I'm ashamed, but at the same time I'm very pleased to be sitting with you in the hall. So what was said earlier by a government representative is true. Also in the law that we have on the table today, these shares or declarations of shares and public announcements are clearly recorded. By specifically separating the shares and shares recorded in the KDD, this is in any case public information and there are no problems, and in particular mentions, shares and shares in the company not registered in the KDD, and data on legal persons whose owner or co-owner is the parent company in which the shareholder has a share, with data on their value. And with data on true values, which is a significant difference in terms of what's being prepared in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Law on Public Property of Officials, which is now in the first reading, is an urgent matter, an urgent need for law in the situation we are in. It is also necessary for us, because of all those honest officials who can look into everyone's eyes at any moment. I, too, can claim that I do not have one euro in my life for which I should be ashamed or want to hide it. This law was created by the actions of Minister Golobič, who then revealed themselves. This is why we will mention Minister Golobic here, and this is not unfair and unethical, as said by colleague Juri, that we should not now mention Minister Golobic. In fact, its concealment of ownership was a direct reason for us to decide, for the first time, to publish assets in our client's website, and also to submit such a law. However, a colleague of Juri today said more that he was not only the only Minister of Golobic who forgot to report which he did not report. Please tell me which ministers of the current government are hiding their assets. If you're defending your minister and your president, you're defending him in such a way as to tell which other ministers they're hiding. That's what you said! Of course, it is now in this situation when we see how fraughtly you are defending your president and the minister of this government, whom some have appointed as the most important minister of this government, to see which parties are hiding the assets of their officials. The officials of whose parties have not, in fact, published their assets to the public commission of the Kosovo Commission and now the parties and Members of their clients are afraid that this would be disclosed and made public. Today we see this very clearly and very transparently from these benches. Look, I'm surprised you're defending yourself in such an untransparent, impossible, stupid way. Your argument is to weaken Kosovo's anti-corruption commission with this. Yes, but if he does have this information, if he works with this information, he will be able to fight corruption significantly more actively and successfully, as he will be able to intervene in any of these officials! I hope that the Court of Auditors will also coordinate with the Kosovo Commission. But of course, your main concern is the penal clause, which means that it predicts the seizure of this property, and this property is obviously huge after your reactions today. Your officials have a lot of assets that aren't reported, which you're afraid will come to the public. And in such a strange way, in such an impossible way, you are in a situation today where Slovenia is today at a time other than 14 days ago. You obviously don't understand the symbolism of Gorenje, the anger and anger of the workers, the profanity of those workers. For what happened in Gorenje is Lithostrom, as I have already said, of today. And when Litostor happened, the previous regime quickly learned the message of that Litostro. At that time, they began to speak to the authorities, and "Europe now" were immediately for Europe. You're different, you'll defend these corrupt officials until the last drop of blood. You don't understand the workers' messages and you don't want to understand. Unfortunately, a lot of media are like that, defending imprudentness, defending cover-up, defending lies, defending robberies, defending thefts. Of course, I have to say for myself how Work and Work Mag 20.7 behaved when the article Transparency of Janša’s soldiers put me on the front page with a picture - otherwise they would not have given me - and with a subtitle Jerovšek, a Taiwanese shareholder. ♪ And it's been reading to me ♪ [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u197	Please, peace in the hall! Let Mr Jerovšek explain what he wants to explain. If I can figure out for myself that he's gone overboard, I'll warn him. Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u198	And there it was - Mateja Babič was signed - she was reading amnesia, intransparency, that I had denied ownership of the Taliban shares of the Investment Centre and Infond Holding. And when I wrote to the demanta that it was a lie and a lie [[...]] [[The ad in the hall: "Whose?"]] Works, Matthew Babic and those. I wrote: "I reject the obviouss about me because they are not real. As I have always shown this as a civil certificate entered into the Infond," it was on the website, "which, against my will to date, changed the name into shares of Taiwanese companies and lost most of the value, thanks to the managers and now the majority owners, Tycoons of Infond Holding and the Investment Centre, who are also owners of the Work and for whom I rightly wonder whether they directly or indirectly ordered this manipulative record, which was published in Del and Del Mag. The fact that my certificate came into the tycoon claws of the owner of the author's newspaper is causing me material damage..." and so on. The value of my civil certificate and at the time was 21. Seven. 160 euros and that's why I was a Taiwanese shareholder. Such is the honesty of some newspapers and some journalists! And they didn't publish the denials despite the laws. That's what you told them to do, the one with the Ministry of Media in your hands. That's what you told them to do! This is the state of the spirit and the state of the media as well. Not only that, it went on to say that the Jerovsks have other Thai stocks. My children, who lost all of their ownership by investing in Infond, are now no longer worth €160, but with Shrote's machinations and practically bankrupt Infond became worth 00. And on the basis of this they read - a completely transparent action, an honest man comes to the front and is being spat on like a tycoon. These are your colleagues. You encourage them, you pay them, and they do you favors. And they didn't announce it despite the ERs that they didn't want to publish the denials. You seem to have to change the Media Act, because at least now you can demand denial and judicial protection. You'll do something different to protect your tycoons. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, here you can see clearly, I'm not saying that you're the one sitting here or all connected to this in an improper way to protect directly, but you're told that you have to protect your bosses, some that you have to protect that so that you can steal further. You seem to be more dogmatic in this sense than even your predecessors used to be. No wonder, even in these years, what I am sitting in this hall, some officials have picked up latifia on the Coast. The mayor of Izola sold a large area to the secretary of state on financials at the insular hospital for a lousy amount of money. Of course she will protect, of course she will protect such officials, etc! As a result, those who can look into our eyes insist that we do something in this area, in the protection of the National Assembly, in the protection of this country, in the protection of workers who have been robbed many times and in despair. We will not tell these workers that we are prepared to do something for transparency in this country if you do not have the courage and the power to ask those officials who have lied, who lie, who have postal collectors around the world to show it and also pay taxes and tell where they came from! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. As a Member - the same as the Vice-President of the National Assembly this year - I imagined, Mr Jerovšek, I listened to you too. Mr Jerovšek, you listen to me, I pray you, because you too are concerned. I imagined that when we were talking about laws, we were talking about principled solutions, not who had something, who didn't, who would benefit from the law, who would not. Therefore, I am sorry that we are doing this and, as much as possible, please let us talk about the law, but not to accuse one another. This applies both to accusing the media as fellow Members, who has a task, who does not have one. It's not decent and it works and it throws a bad light on all of us. [[...]] [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Listen up! [[...]] I have listened, Mr Jerovšek, you know well with the media, if you want, and if you have critical opinions, it works in a different way, not through a debate in the National Assembly. You're not gonna solve this problem here. Either you're successful or you're not, but I don't know. Mr. Jerovšek, please, what do you have? A replica of my statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u200	Mr President, it pained you that I said in that article that it was like a reaction to our move to publish the property, we were spat, attacked, taccanized, and I don't know what else. And you're saying we shouldn't say this in front of the Slovenian public! But if the media won't publish the truth, they'll reject the demanta! Surely you would not reject it because they feel that you are their owner [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u201	Mr Jerovšek, you have said, I have given you my word, even though you do not have the right to a replica when the chairman leads the meeting, but let there be an exception for you, because you are undisciplined and otherwise cannot be with you. Mr. Yuri also asked for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am aware that when I speak, and in a temperamental way, I express myself in my distinct coastal accent, but here with an extraordinary Romance accent, and sometimes some Members from other environments and other regions, do not understand me well. This is systematically happening with his colleague Jerovsk. So I need to explain two things to him. He first stated that I protested Mr Golobic's mention in this debate. That's not true. I have no objection to this, but Mr Cukjat warned that it is not political cultural to speak about persons not in this Chamber. That is why I also mentioned this case, because when I was talking about Members, who - strangely - are not in this room again during the debate, it was problematic. The second thing, because my colleague Jerovšek did not understand me, obviously, is the question of getting those, not only Golobič, but also others, who have failed or have forgotten to tell the media information about their property. I'm not talking about other ministers, I've been talking about some Members, and we could name them, but I'm going to follow the vice-president's recommendation, and I'm not going to do that because it would be awkward. But the fact is that many members of the most vocal party of the opposition have forgotten to mention their assets. Thirdly, let's stop accusing the media! This mess has been going on for 18 years, ever since the president of this party said that it was finally "the swan song of journalists". And this story goes on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecanova, did you want a word? [[The ad from the bench.]] It wasn't about your debate, but it was about you, so I give you my word. Then I'll try to be more strict about the replica, because otherwise we won't be able to make it to the end. Everyone's gonna want to talk. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. That's all I'm gonna say. I join the president in talking about laws, talking about laws and not 295 things together that come to mind. Mr Jerovšek, who again tried to mutilate me before the Slovenian public, as someone else has tried to punish me now in the first stage with imprisonment, conditionally, for some time, in the same matter that you have now tried to glue me to something negative, bad, corrupt. But I'll just return the comment. Someone who forgets to tell the media that a company's shares, which are very problematic, has not forgotten this, but has deliberately silenced it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u206	[[...]] [[From the hall.]] It's a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u207	Mr Jerovšek, now would really be a replica of the replica. Mr Chernač, as a proposaler, has the right to speak. Mr. Blackach, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u208	[[...]] [[From the hall.]] That's a false statement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u209	What has now been said is that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u210	Anderlich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u211	Someone had stakes. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u212	Mr. Anderlich, let me do the talking. Don't comment from the bench!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u213	What was said last time was that someone who was silent did not tell the media that he had shares or shares, that he had lied. That's right. There's no doubt about that. And Mr Golobič lied to the media and the public. But when it comes to this story in connection with the publication of the month of July in Mago, it's something else. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party then decided to make our assets public. At the time when this law, a few days earlier, we put it into the legislative procedure. And this law clearly provides for the publication of assets worth more than EUR 10 000, regardless of which we have published what was of lower value. But, media incriminating someone because he didn't write down that he has some certificate shares that he asked whether he even knew or didn't have, worth 160.71 euros and write in the media that it's a tycoon right-hand man - please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u214	Mr. Blackach. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall.]] [[...]] Sir [[...]] There's no replica to the replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u215	[[...]] [[From the hall.]] He didn't have a replica, Black. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u216	But the black man abused the rules of procedure because he spoke as a proponent, and he responded to the replica. He didn't explain the law, but he answered the replica. Please, ma'am. [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u217	Mr Vice-President, you have measured the time from the SDS Group so you have skipped the order of the debaters, and what you have just done is incorrect. He could speak on behalf of the proponents or have a replica if he was, but time ran on behalf of the SDS. Please. If already [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u218	Mr. Anderlich, I don't have time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u219	I guarantee you, you'll make sure of that. If you are already sharing lessons on average, then correct, correct [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u220	I don't share them all on average, but the one I think is in violation of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u221	This is a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u222	What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u223	The suggestion is that time is measured to what it refers to. And he was called on behalf of the proponents, and time was running on behalf of the SDS, and he will therefore be able to advertise in advance as a proposalr, because he did not take the time of the proposalr's title. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you so much for the heads-up. We'll check it out. If time went wrong, we'll shorten the time to propose and give it to the SDS. Mr. Godec has the floor. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u225	Yeah. Thank you very much. I've spoken to you four times, but you've never noticed me. I don't know, maybe I'm too modest, too small, too heavy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u226	No, look, Mr. Godec, I give my word to those who are registered in writing. When there's a second round, you can sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u228	So don't tell me I can't see you. I can't give you my word because you're not registered. That's why I'm asking you now if you want procedural as much as possible. So you said no. Procedurally, Mrs. Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u229	Yeah, sure. When the previous chairman, Vice-President Tsukati, spoke with the stage. And just like in the case of SDS, it didn't take a minute. So, because you want a concrete proposal, I suggest you look at the magnetogram, because there you can see how many minutes it is to just subtract it from the customer's minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u230	I hope that there will be no further proposal to further complicate things. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. When the debate in the National Assembly goes this way, as it went this way, it is difficult for each of us to discuss. But now that I've made my point, I'll tell you anyway. I will say this first: I agree with most of those views in the debate referred to earlier by Mr Franco Juri, so I will not repeat this. But I would say that I, too, am concerned about this demagogism and populism, which in the National Assembly, especially in matters like this, is abusing the public to try to convince the public of something. Indeed, in this particular case, we who propose this law are honest and do not hide anything, we have not obtained one euro in an illegal way. You, others who oppose this law, of course, hide something, defend someone, have even been told that we are fulfilling some of the tasks that our bosses have given us. I strongly protest this and I think others agree with me that this is something unheard of. Because it's possible to say a lot of bad things about this law that you're proposing. I do not need to go to the President of the Court of Auditors to tell me that the provisions of this proposal are contrary to the Constitution, paragraph 150, which deals with the situation and competences of the Court of Auditors. I do not need to go to anyone to find that certain provisions are contrary to Article 35, Article 38, and many others who talk about the right to privacy, data collection and processing and so on and so on. And I am also sure that you also know very well that this bill is contrary to what the Constitution has laid down. But of course, you wanted to challenge this debate and you wanted to have such a debate that you could say what you wanted to say again. Yesterday you were talking about this investigative committee, but it seems that it wasn't enough, and today we need to talk about a minister of this government again. Before yesterday, you spoke of the Constitutional Court's need to be eliminated when it examined the constitutionality of court salaries. Yes, please, and I probably cannot believe that Mr Gorenak would not know that the Constitutional Court is competent to decide on the conformity of any of the laws with the Constitution, regardless of whether it is a judicial matter or not, as someone might wish to say. And I would particularly like to stress that, of course, I am also very concerned that you have entered. And before that, a lie was told about it. Some lies were previously warned by a colleague of Pechanov. The lie was said that there was nothing said in Article 4 about the need to publish the property of family members. Of course it is, because it is written in paragraph 4 as my colleague Presečnik said it. And why are you deliberately deceiving the public that there is no law in this proposal? Of course it is! And you know, I am also concerned that you have introduced a provision which states that the Court of Auditors would, first of all, decide how to publish this information on property. Yes, I'm asking you nicely, because it's some of the things that fall under the chapter on human rights in the Constitution. And now the Court of Auditors will adopt a general act and say how these data will be published, regardless of the fact that we have Article 38 of the Constitution, let's say. This is very interesting, and I am also concerned about family members because you know, more about the joke, because almost every Slovenian family beats an official, then they could also give this law the title "the law on the public publication of the property of all". This is, of course, again something that is strictly contrary to the Constitution and human rights, and you have really brought a lot of innovation into this bill. I must say that it is necessary to say here publicly, it cannot be a coincidence, it cannot be true that you yourself would not know that in these points this bill is contrary to the Constitution. But please don't be a fool if you already have us fellow Members, at least not to the Slovenian public at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Of course you mention me, Mrs. Bebler. I have to correct you because you misquote the claim that was made, and this replica is intended within two minutes. By no means did I speak of the fact that the Constitutional Court would not be competent, in any way, and never. However, I said that it was morally extremely controversial, that they were deciding at all, and that if they were aware and had more consciousness, they could be eliminated. That was it. But as far as false allegations are concerned, because you quoted me, too, saying that sanctions are in the existing law. There can be all the sanctions you want in the existing law. It may say it's a death sentence, but please give me one of the officers who's been sanctioned. We won't find him. We're not gonna find this official, and that's the problem. Of course, legal opinions have also been linked to this. Absolutely. Look, judging someone in public in advance that he acted corruptly is the same thing as what happened, can we compare it to what? By what was done in the Government of February, when someone said, the former secretary-general committed a crime of copying. Today, the media report that the police find out that there is no crime. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. Who is this? Mr. Blackach as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I have previously read what is written in Section 4 of the Law, and I am surprised that what it says is not a public publication of the property of family members. The public publication is provided for in Article 7 of the Law. It refers to the publication of the information referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, relating to the position of the official. The fourth paragraph, however, refers to the duty to apply to the Court of Auditors, provided that it can be reasonably concluded, on the basis of the data provided, that the official hides or transfers his assets in order to avoid supervision to family members. What was said to be a public declaration of the property status of family members is not true. I've already told you about constitutionality. It is interesting that the opinion of the European Central Bank, and this is one European practice, has been given by the European Central Bank mainly because of the Bank of Slovenia and its independence, positively. The European Central Bank has summarized in a broad opinion what is the subject of this law. All these solutions that we are discussing today are described. The conclusion of this conclusion is that, on the basis of the above assumptions, the European Central Bank considers that the provisions of the proposed law on the registration of property and related sanctions would not be incompatible with the principle of personal independence. Nothing, nothing is disputed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Lobnikar, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Two things. The law submitted by Members does not regulate the principled opinions, nor the principled legal opinions, but the debate has already shown that this must be regulated. These opinions, much more than they are now regulated, are governed by the law prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, I repeat once again the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that this issue must be addressed in another law, which will solve this issue in a much more comprehensive and systematic manner, not in this law, which is solely a partisan one. And one last thing. The opinion of the European Central Bank relates only to the functioning of the European Bank and the Bank of Slovenia as an independent body and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u239	I heard in the debate that this law was written because of one man and apparently because of that man. Well, that's what it was said. And as I understand it, it is not possible to write laws for one person in the way you wanted to do it. For this law will not make those who are forgetful, nor declare their property to the proper authorities, to do so. This is what at least two arguments are, which convinces me that the law is written in a way that does not regulate the things he wanted and that we wait for the law on integrity and I will support what is said. Mr Jerovšek is probably offended that he was only on the front page once, but I believe that he will be at least as many times with his shares as some others with other contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, why? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. It's an eccentric untruth, which he said was written for one man. I said that the minister and his actions were a reason for us to decide that. And don't flip. The same is true, which Mrs. Pecan said earlier that I had forgotten to report. I haven't forgotten anything. I wrote the Infond Civil Certificate that the Scraps and everyone else ripped me off. Now it's worth nothing, of all four family members. And you didn't write that work or MAG. And I haven't forgotten anything. Don't tell me I've forgotten anything. I really showed it and told it, but I was still getting muddled with a picture on the front page as a tycoon shareholder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. There's a couple of applications that aren't in the hall. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. I had no intention of calling, even though I was registered for this debate. But given that I was mentioned earlier by my colleague Yuri, and on an extraordinary note, I will say, an ugly way, but I would like to replicate here in this case. I believe, Comrade Yuri, who is unfortunately not here in the hall right now, that you must scrupulously and with all your cannons defend your party president, who has hidden several million euros of large assets. What bothered me the most was that you compared his concealment of millions of Euros of valuable assets to the quasi-absorbing of 67 shares worth 100 euros in a certificate I received as a child, which my mother, Mr Juri, had submitted, but it was a shame. It's a shame, big one. But if you think it's an equivalent matter, I suggest the following. Your president will have millions of euros in assets donated to me, and I will give him my 67 shares in 100 euros. I think that's right and ferrel and fair offer. And then I'll give that property maybe, I don't know, for charity. These are pure rude manipulation and instigation. And so did the journalists of the newspaper Dnevnik or Maga or Del and, of course, you today. And before that, you said that none of the Members were sitting here. How's that? Because we're supposed to be afraid to sit in here because of this marriage because we're afraid to disclose our assets. We're sitting here with two of the biggest tycoons in the country, Comrade Jerovšek and Me. I'm ashamed to be sitting in a National Assembly like this where you go. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u244	Mr. Yuri has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u245	I note that some fellow Members and Members of Parliament are very upset at this debate, are affected and all are guilty of it, the Dnevnik, the Work, the Youth and finally the signatures. I gave one case, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] what actually happens when you try to show only one fact unilaterally and very poorly, in this case [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. Clearly, this debate is somewhat out of context, which is not surprising if the main speakers are actors and cartoonists. I think we should actually go to the debate a little bit more seriously, with arguments, not with discredits, not with insults. Unfortunately, this debate today took place in a way that was difficult to say that this fundamental objective has been achieved, with the exception of these introductory presentations. Unfortunately, we are witnessing in these aspects of the laws that we are proposing in the legislative process, in fact, always the same scenario. Even in the Income Act, which we discussed earlier, the point was very similar, slightly less pronounced, mocking but the same. Any proposal we make in the legislative process is subject to manipulation and discredit, in a very, very low manner, in an unqualified way and would suggest to colleagues in coalition groups that they do not rely too much on the number of votes, but to focus on a more reasoned debate. For if we want to come to some true facts, to some solutions, to some goals, then we need to face arguments. Unfortunately, you have, in fact, ignored all these arguments which have been tabled and presented on both behalf of the proposer and also the position of the Group of Members. Not for no reason, not for no reason. Those who have no problem telling what property they have have have done so and perhaps some mistake has been made. But this needs to be understood in terms of dynamics, in terms of complementing and improving proposals. Those who have something to show and have long accumulated this wealth and participated in the possession of public property, common assets, because of tradition and history, are defending themselves in all possible ways to make the property they have at their disposal public. I don't know what such an aversion to this proposal is. What for? Why coalition parties object to the public's assets of officials. Those selected according to specific criteria and special procedures in this National Assembly or then elected to the responsible functions in other State institutions. I think you've been expecting a lot, coalition Members, from a request that the President of the National Assembly addressed to the European Central Bank regarding the public ownership of officials in the Bank of Slovenia. You've been expecting a lot of this answer. But I think that this answer was all in this National Assembly, not us, but those in the coalition, very disappointing. The European Central Bank has no reservations to the clarity of the assets of its officials in the central banks of the countries. In Slovenia alone, this is likely to exist. I also do not know why reservations to the public should be, say, others with public authority or officials, such as members of the judiciary. I don't see why. If this is obtained, inherited in some normal way obtained by work, then there are no reasons. However, if there are any other objections that the public should not have come to, then I understand this effort of the nomenclature to banalise the solution brought by this law. I understand that. I also understand that cartoonists and those in puppet theaters are fighting hard to banalise this proposal, and there is a clear reason why. Where there is a lot of property that needs to be hidden, there is a need to protect this matter and the easiest way to do and mix those who have proposed a serious solution. Regrettably, there are many members of the executive branch who are rightly concerned about the adoption of this law. Cases are known where some officials are involved or at least there is a serious suspicion that they are involved in many matters related to public procurement, in many cases related to the execution of public funds tasks, both at state level and at local level. We also have cases where it's lucky that someone just pleads guilty, that it's not necessary to put out a penalty bill and stuff like that, because they don't do their job. We have many other cases. We have cases where there was no payment, such as in the previous mandate for the University of Primorska, and the article that actually took the account to the State of Slovenia is a company that renews the house to the senior official of this government. There's nothing disputed about anyone, and there's no doubt that anything's wrong. In some cases of rich errors worth 10 euros, that's one share, but it's worth 10 euros, and we get first-class fights in this National Assembly. I have to say that it makes sense for me to show and show all those who are in charge of this country our property to the public. What belongs to the one with the function. There's no problem. I see no reason to hide it, whether some have received it in denationalisation procedures or have acquired it. I see no reason to hide it. A lot of things come out anyway. And there are certainly cases among us that have a lot of property that they have acquired in this way. Maybe in the procedures they're most critical of. Many here are very critical of denationalization and return of property in nature, but they have received a lot of this property returned, let us say, on the basis of law, but those who probably belong to it are challenging it. And I think that if this law were to be passed, many officials in this country would act more carefully, much more cautiously in actions and statements than ever. If we can hide at least something for a principled opinion and thus cover it up and it reveals that there are no known suspicions of corruption or any other act, then this is a major problem. What we had now in those years, since 2004, was actually a hunt for municipal saints. Not one major case of corruption, however, was property transformations and similar things, and there were also owners, officials of this National Assembly, but nothing happened. Cases were brought through the state bank, tycoon stories, and those who took part in the business progressed, became ministers, became directors, etc. In short, if we do not adopt the proposal for a law on the property of officials, then we can very likely find out and argue that these, similar cases of excellence, which will be covered in one way or another, will continue. I doubt that what happened in the process of appointing a State Audit Commission, when in fact the only candidate for a President is a case in point. I think that in the background they are going on, also here, heavy human resources games: because now that an investigative commission is being set up and there may still be something to find out, it is very important who will be at the head of the state audit committee, that he may also be able to "sport" or defend what will be found on the investigative commission or those for low constructions, that is to say roads, motorways or those for high constructions. It's extremely important. It is extremely important for the coalition to ensure that all these functions of the supervisory commissions and of the Boards of Appeal are adequately covered by human resources. These are not random cases or events. And it is likely that we will repeat such calls for so long that the policy will be adequately "equiped" that the policy will be adequately "equiped" by those complaints and supervisory commissions and bodies, so that this service can be fully provided. We can find out that now, calm souls! Some other events are also related. All these extraordinary cases of pressure against the Attorney-General's Office, the Ljubljana prosecution, are likely to have similar concerns. There too were major cases and major violations. And what is actually happening now is in the context of certain forms of political corruption, almost certainly. No matter how you comment or debate on the nomenclature or the continuation of the nomenclature before the previous term of office, that is to say. And once we've set up the work of these committees, we'll probably find that these things are what I said they are. It would be most appropriate, in fact, to accept this law, that we also try to arrange other things that are still at this meeting of the National Assembly in such a way as to have some public coverage and credibility, and that we do not engage too much with these, especially political personnel. Mr. Chairman, may I speak or may I no longer have the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u248	Mr. Tanko, for my sake, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u249	I see your colleagues here who are a little wider and bigger than me are rather fond and seriously disturbed. It would make sense that in all these matters that are going to happen, we are also helping to do something about this work. In short, many may quickly come to terms with matters, and it might make sense if the assets were publicly available to examine and determine these matters. But if it were hidden, as it happened several times, things would be covered up in a different way. I therefore propose that you support the draft law for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I can also say on your behalf, Mr Tanko, that anything that has been directly linked to the procedures relating to the audit committee does not apply to the candidate and her conduct, because that would be incorrect. You didn't discuss it when we decided. But today, that's the way it's supposed to be. I hope it's not about candidates, it's about other actions. Mrs Lobnikar has the word on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to say once again very loudly, clearly and unequivocally that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a law that will regulate transparency better than proposed in the existing law. It must be acknowledged that their purpose is good, but that the pursuit of this purpose is poor, contrary to the law and unconstitutional. The way in which we settle matters in the integrity law will be such that it also respects the legal order in force. The public can be restricted only by taking into account the other rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have no problem because the Constitutional Court has already determined which data are available and must be made public in this country, provided that the legislator decides to publish and which data cannot be made public. Since there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that accurately borders the public and private borders, we have also written in a proposal that the Members, with a very fast-written parliamentary law, have preceded. Any law that also deals with Banka Slovenije officials should, as a rule, be reviewed by the European Central Bank. As a result, the President of the National Assembly has done nothing on his own, but this is an integral part of the legislative process. And in this legislative process, like the opinion of Banka Slovenije officials, the Central Bank has estimated that they have nothing against the public's assets of officials in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which has described very precisely what it can and cannot be public with officials. And what is the weakness of the proposed marriage? It is in that the personal validity of this law is narrowed to a narrow circle of people in this country. Members and Members who proposed this bill mentioned only a narrow circle of officials, but we have drafted a law in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia where we agree on at least one matter concerning personal validity. Officials who are not municipal councillors in yours, if I understand your marriage correctly, are not covered in government law as persons to whom this law applies, because it turned out to be a stupid declaration of property. It is true, however, that we must also regulate this area for other people in this country who are equally responsible and equally important in their decision-making on public policies. Members who proposed this law did not mention any officials who, as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for the Republic of Slovenia, perform functions in the European institutions. The European Commissioner or the European Commissioner is just as important and very strong a function, and we do not have it covered. Nobody talks about those people in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, in this proposed law, which significantly decides on very much money, these are public servants in the highest positions, general directors, heads of government services, general secretary of government, general secretaries of ministries and others, including mayors and mayors, heads of administrative units and secretaries or directors of municipal administrations. All of this is being prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its proposal for a law. And yes, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a law that will actually implement what is the desire of the applicants, transparency, and also property, but published in such a way that it will respect what is legal order in this country, because it cannot happen to us that the assets will be assessed by this or other media house, because then we will never come to transparency as the values of public policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I am obliged to answer that I have been informed that time went wrong before for a minute and 20 seconds and that this time is short for the applicant, the same time, minute 20, and the SDS has been extended because it has already been corrected in the record. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you very much. See, today, several things have been said in this hall, which are simply not accurate, are not acceptable. I was previously corrected by one of the coalition Members, and I am obliged to say the following. First time. The fact that the opposition that we have overtaken the government coalition in the SDS, which is already preparing, is apparently a law that will solve all the problems in this country, is not correct for me. It's not corrected because it's not accurate. In fact, if we've summarized anything, we've taken back what the government prepared in the previous term. Indeed, in the previous term, we had a similar law, similar to the contents, whereby part of the competence of the Kosovo Commission was to be transferred to the Court of Auditors. So if I were to speculate a little bit, I'd say the government's got something on us. I agree, however, that there may be a circle of officials - we agree that municipal councilors are in some way a category of officials who do not really belong in this law, many of them can not even complete all these applications and so on. It is also true that if the Government considered that they should be expanded - I agree, for example, with the statement of the European Commissioners and so on - then it could also amend this, since the Government has the opportunity to amend, the coalition has the opportunity to amend. But there's no desire, there's no need for it, obviously, in the coalition, because the coalition thinks everything the opposition proposes is bad. A typical example of this is that amendment that was voted when the coalition voted against the European resolution, but "after the defolk" because it was written there by SDS. Next thing you know, it shows up. You know, the fact that our marriage is contrary to the law, the constitution, that it is unconstitutional and so on, see, all those who have spoken about it, because you are not yet constitutional judges. Perhaps one of those who said so would become a constitutional judge and then have the opportunity to judge. As long as he is not a constitutional judge and is only an official in the state administration or in this House, a Member cannot say that something is unconstitutional; this is a completely unacceptable matter. Next thing you know, it shows up. I would like to go back to my introductory discussion and give a few more practical examples to support it with. In the introductory discussion, I challenged the main opinions of the Kosovo Commission. Why? Because of the principled opinions of the Kosovo Commission, as you have correctly identified by the coalition Members, there is still a long way to go to what is called the crime that gets the epilogue in court. But in this country, everything is overly condemned on Tržaška 2, or what the title of the Kosovo Commission is, because this principled opinion comes into the media, names and surnames are attached, and this person is publicly condemned. Then, of course, the question arises as to what is true. It is true, however, that this is not usually true, because practice shows that, apart from Mr Schuštar, the former Secretary of State, perhaps someone else, there is nothing in the courts, at least with legal judgments. That's why it's not possible to judge someone in public with such opinions, as I think, but there have been some cases like this. Look, the Strojan case, I hear it was corruption. Yeah, for God's sake, I don't know what it is. I can't even imagine what it is. We were informed in advance that there was a case of Patricia, Mercator, and other corruption. So, this is what a conviction was adopted on Tržaška 2, on the seat of this commission, which is not right. However, I recognize the Commission's positive role where prevention is called, but we do not prevent it with a public lynx of an individual. A similar example, I will also give my own case, and I will say so - I understand the coalition to defend these matters, to continue to defend such opinions from this Commission, but such opinions from this Commission - because in fact they are followed by the Government. I mentioned earlier that, in February, we witnessed Mr Squeakl simply say, "I am a criminal giver. My predecessor, Mr. Speaker, made ten thousand copies. Look, Mr. Speaker, then in front of all the press and so on, for the hearing, for the police and so on. So this is a criminal, and that's how it's shown. But let's see the truth now. But now the police have stopped and the police, under the leadership of your minister, find that no one would say that anything is wrong here is a crime. My own case. In 2004, when I was on an official visit to Interpol, someone, through an anonymous voice, told the Slovenian public that I had entered into some contracts with the Faculty of Safety Sciences and that for that reason I was definitely putting in my pocket a large amount of money. Three days of "rolling" as the first news, and then what happens. Yeah, of course, people are looking at you a little bit weird, how about what you're doing now, and I know you a little bit different. I cite this case because it is the same as the principled opinions. Of course, I didn't even get a chance to answer the media there because I was in Lyonn. In this case, for example, the Kosovo Commission has played a positive role because within about one year it has found that there is no corruption and that those internal ministry procedures are all right. But this is such a positive example of the Kosovo police. But these are also negative cases. The whole bunch, the whole series, and it's problematic and what you're now saying is that you'll settle in marriage, integrity, at least I think I've seen it somewhere on one website or whatever, at least there was something somewhere, or there was newspaper news, but the problem with this law coming is that it keeps things the way it is. It keeps things the way they are. This means that we will continue to witness the supervision of the assets of officials by the Kosovo Police, who does what he does. That's what I used to base. That's my problem with this marriage. In my opinion and in our belief, it would be much better, much better if the Kosovo Commission did what it was doing in Europe. I'm talking about similar institutions in Europe. It means that, at the principal level, he deals with corruption, that he deals with prevention and all the tasks involved. Not that he's dealing with officials' assets. With the assets of the officials, as I mentioned earlier in the case of Austria and some other countries, they should be employed there, i.e. in the Court of Auditors. The fact that the Court of Auditors was not set up for this was a waste. Why? For a basic reason, because the law can impose other tasks on the Court of Auditors and there is no problem. In the mandate of the former government, as far as I know, the drafter of a similar law has also aligned this with the Court of Auditors. And the Court of Auditors was in the position to assume such tasks immediately when providing material conditions. So talk about it Yes, of course, because, I'll say, someone, some inspection service is also responsible for thing A, if we impose on the law another thing B, but it will still be responsible for that and equally applies to the Court of Auditors. [[...]] However, if any article of the accounting law in the Court of Auditors has to be corrected, we can also, of course, correct it. I don't see any problem here. Of course, it is turned around, very, very distorted or condemned, all the things we have been given in today's debate. No Mag, no one mentioned me, no one called me a tycoon, because I don't have anything, and I've reported absolutely everything. Mag couldn't find any mistakes either. So talk about someone and compare 100 euros to three, four million, but it's a very messed-up thing. It is not a matter of great perverseness for individuals who say so, but of course it is not an honor. It would be better if we acted on our own as we did in our client and, of course, we reported the property. However, if someone had something that he had acquired as a child - a reason we heard from a colleague of Irgle - he didn't even know about it, but it's worth 100 euros, which is either a misdirection or something worse. But what happens in the President's case is a mistake, of course, because we all make mistakes, right? That's a bad idea. That's a bad idea. It's a very bad idea. Let's move on. A number of other cases have been mentioned, and there have been several discussions to which it appears to respond. I'm not gonna mention people who aren't here. Some of the discussions were at the expense of our President and his interview - I don't know where he was published, probably as one of the Members said. And he simply attributed it to him, as I do on May 5th this year, to create some extraordinary situation and I don't know what it is. To me, part of the newspaper, actually part of the MPs -- I don't see any here, alas, I see one here, yes, that I attacked the Constitutional Court, and I don't know what it is, that it's a street call, and that the call to what I know what it's all about. When I made it very clear, nothing but that I am not sure that people will suffer for as long as I may say so, some of the decisions taken in an unreasonable way by a group of constitutional judges, as I at that time justified. Of course, they asked me to resign, and I don't know what, but they said that I had made an assassination at the Constitutional Court. According to Mr. Pahor, fourteen days later, they were quiet, but they kept quiet. The same is happening today, exactly the same, by misinterpreting what our president said. If anyone understood the President's words in terms of calling on the streets, they were misunderstood. None of us sitting here, members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, want that. In fact, I sincerely hope that no one wants to do this in this hall. However, the situation in which we are, with the role of unions that we have, which have become part of the government - I did not make this up right now, I wrote this three weeks ago, you can read it on the website; even before Gorenje happened, it was made public. Under such circumstances and under such a role, the matter is relatively logical. The street's gonna happen on its own. But the biggest wedding for this street is the failure of the government, which we have been alerting since the beginning of this mandate, or since the beginning of a hundred days since then, we have been warning, "For God's sake, start adopting legislation." No! No! Then we prepare her for the night session, and luckily, you refuse her. And so these are guarantees, so this is the best wedding ever to happen. But not because of the opposition, because of the lack of coalition, it can happen to you. We don't want that, but everything seems to be. I see only three other Members here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Lobnikar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, first of all some corrections I believe Dr. Gorenak knows. The police, you mentioned, are headed by the Director-General of the Police, not by the Minister or by the Minister. This is what we said in the previous term, and this is what we now say. And we don't have a Kosovo commission in Slovenia. I looked at all the sites on the Internet once again, and I found that in this country there is only an anti-corruption commission, but it is no longer in Tržaška 21. Allow me to skip commenting on whether the work or the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is going to happen, as announced by the Member of the National Assembly, that it will happen, even though it wishes not to happen. But to comment on the material that we are discussing today in the National Assembly. The Anti-Corruption Commission in the Republic of Slovenia is one of those independent state bodies whose work is considered to be an excellent variety of international institutions and where Western Europe is also learning how to regulate anti-corruption. The proposal we have on the table today limits the work of the Commission. And what in the OECD, in the East and West, this commission, which we should be proud of in the Republic of Slovenia, is recognized as a great job, we try to limit. The Member referred to principled opinions that, although they had nothing to do with the law under consideration, they have in common with the upcoming integrity law, where we also regulate this area. Indeed, the Member said that principled opinions are something that is bad, except when judged by good. It is true that the Constitutional Court has decided on what these principled opinions must be, and as set out in the Anti-Corruption Law are bad, which is why the Constitutional Court has corrected them and we will also record such a correction in the Integrity Act. Because what Dr. Gorenak said in the area of anti-corruption is the principle of thinking about corrupt behaviour is what some general awareness of what is right and what is wrong. However, it must be based on the definition of corruption enshrined in the Integrity Act, the Incompatibilities of Functions Act, in your law, and the former Anti-Corruption Act, which is not identical to criminal offences that have signs of corruption enshrined in the Penal Code. For this reason, corruption under the law on integrity, future, or existing laws must be separated from criminal acts of corruption, which is the only right thing to do. If any misdemeanor was also a crime, then anyone who had committed such a minor misdeed would have to be held responsible for it as if he had committed a crime. What we all know is stupid. Not every crime is also a crime. Another thing is that it is written in the proposed law, which very much reminds us of the inadequacy of this law, namely, how to deal with assets that have been silenced, concealed, hidden, or whatever you wish to name or undeclared. After this proposal for a law, this property is taken ex-lege, it is no longer available. In the Integrity Act, when the Commission finds that there is a suspicion that such assets exist, such assets are frozen, any legal traffic with them is null and void, and then in the legal state the courts, not the State authorities, not the National Assembly, not the State Commission, not the Anti-Corruption Commission, but the Court. And as the court decides, this property happens. The fact is that in the law on integrity, the Anti-Corruption Commission retains the position of a central independent state authority, which also takes care of the control of the assets of all those covered by this law, except for the three officials of this Commission, since this role is exercised by the National Assembly Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you very much. He wants to speak with the bill's proposer, Mr. Cernač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you very much. In conclusion, I think it is right to say again why this law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure on 16 June this year. The law, if you will recall, was implemented after the paradigm of the party that built its march to the National Assembly on transparency in the functioning of public officials, on transparency, on some new human resources policy, has collapsed into the dust. And this paradigm was not crushed by any of the competing parties, by the president of this party himself, when it turned out that he was doing before the elections exactly what he was attacking. This law had a basic purpose to increase transparency in the functioning of public officials and, on the other hand, to ensure preventive action in the area of corruption and clienteleism. This law should also, of course, be achieved through the public publication of this property situation, by simplifying procedures, by decommissioning with some administrative records and by a greater role in the comparison of assets prior to the performance of the function, during and at the conclusion of the function and, of course, some time after that. Earlier, there had been a lot of talk by the Government's representative on how effective the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption was in this area. What is the measure of effectiveness? After having conscientiously collected thousands of administrative data from all those who are obliged to report after the current arrangements, after having determined whether all these data are exactly as they should be indicated, whether the effectiveness is measured after several cases have been drawn out of these data and verified and then determined whether, on the basis of known data, an increase in the assets of a specific public official has occurred or not. And if it is found that appropriate procedures are initiated. We know of one such case. We don't know the whole history of this commission. And the purpose of this law was this, not a bunch of paperwork, not paperwork where it is not necessary, because we know that we have public records, which are more or less public, land books, geodetic data, income in the case of public spheres and so on, shares in companies, KDD is public, but what is outside is to be reported and monitored. In short, more emphasis is placed on the content, on actually starting in this country, those who are responsible for this deal with specific substantive issues, with concrete examples, without witch-hunting. And this was the fundamental purpose of this law, its greater transparency and easier way of achieving this goal is that these data are publicly available at any time and that they can be compared relatively quickly. It cannot be expected that the Commission will now deal with these cases in an operational manner to prevent corruption, or in this case, by the Court of Auditors. However, if it is detected that something does not match, it is the first signal that comes from this level to those who have to deal with it operationally. For this reason, personally, I was particularly surprised by the negative attitude as soon as we entered into the marriage - 16. 6. published at the STA - Mr Kos and Mr Soltes: the powers of the Court of Auditors are public finances, not private. Yeah, that's what this is about! Those concerned by this law are expected to make such or other changes in an appropriate manner during their lifetime due to the situation they are in. And that was the purpose of this marriage. And there's no incompatibility here. Here we have the opinion of the European Central Bank, which makes it very clear that the European Central Bank does not have any reservations about the public ownership of officials. There are no reservations about the whole law. And we have a lot of reservations. We are listening again to these stories about the abolition of the anti-corruption Commission, with this administrative work changing, at least as it has been shown so far, that it is more administrative than no, it is meant to apply, some recording, and not then monitoring what is going on. All other chapters, of eight seven, remain in the Commission's anti-corruption domain. With regard to the principled opinions, this story is particularly interesting in connection with what the government representative said. It is true that what he said is that every corruption yet has no sign of a crime, but what is important in this case is the perception of the public. The perception of the public isn't like that. The perception of the public is that if, in principle, Mr Kos says that some conduct is corrupt, it is a crime. In principle, it says that some behavior is corrupt, that it is a crime. It's a crime. And that's important in these cases. And when, in a particular case, Mr Kos could have listed them here, he had dozens, even hundreds, of them nailed someone to the cross with such a principled opinion, even if it was later found that there was nothing wrong with that case, the perception of the public was the incrimination of that individual. Mr. Speaker was mentioned. I can mention a counter-example where we do not listen to any action by the Commission to prevent corruption. We read every day in the newspaper of the excess of the current Secretary-General, when he took advantage of a private story in the Strmolj Castle for a few 10 invited for €1,162. With a minimum price of 100 euros per person. So what is his attitude now? Will we experience the principled opinion of Mr Kos in this case, from which it will be assumed that he has such behaviour, even if all is well, formal signs of corruption? After this definition, which he himself has set up in this country past the current law, it is also necessary to say this, not only that he has signs of corruption, but here it is even more. There's more to this! Because if it is true that someone has to pay for a 3,000-euro service, the one who is in charge of the service offering it, while his mandate is due soon - I'm talking about the director of this protocol facility - can pay three times less, then, look: not just for a corrupt morning, it's something else, probably. We didn't listen to anything, and even if I did, we'd love to do it for the sake of order. So it doesn't look like ours are untouchable. I think the problem of understanding this issue in the National Assembly is very large. Today's discussions and the responses of individual colleagues have shown that I fear that this law on integrity in the public sector, which - I believe you have a good purpose - will not achieve what needs to be achieved. Since simply ruling policy currently has no real perception of the scale of this phenomenon and what should be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you time to report. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. You won't? I'm sorry. Everyone has five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Just one more time, actually. I am pleased that, according to the introductory explanations, the first ones to follow and, of course, to fly in as a reptilian, you are once again shutting down the Kosovo Commission - these were two discussions at the start - but it has come to pass that we are not here today in this National Assembly, at least I have succeeded, heard more misleading words, you are shutting down the Kosovo Commission because the truth is not this. The truth is different than we could have seen in the debate as such. So the truth is different. Our purpose, which was already established at the outset, was to transfer part of the competence of this commission to the Court of Auditors, but we have brought this matter to justice at the most critical time of the day that President Zares, Mr Golobič, came to this great exposition. And there's something else that matters. Last year or in 2007 or 2008, I do not know exactly, this law or similar text of the law which will bring this to the Court of Auditors, according to my data with the Court of Auditors and the President, who is still the same this year, was harmonised. This year, he suddenly said that this was no longer his jurisdiction. It's a very interesting thing, it's very interesting behavior, and very interesting, I'll say, sedition, if we may say so. The most important thing in all of this is, as I said at the outset, that we do not stop the Kosovo Commission, that we wanted to point out, among other things, that there is a difference between what the Secretary of State has said, what is the so-called act that has signs of corruption and what is the crime. It's a relatively clear case here. But the biggest problem is that as soon as the commission tells it that it has signs of corruption, it is a corrupt person who committed a crime. That's the perception of the public. But the problem is that, on this account, the Kosovo Commission in its public is raising its reputation and gaining the reputation of a body fighting corruption, which is of course not true. The Commission has completely, in a way, other tasks, its objectives should be different. It is not, however, that in any case, he wants to create an impression of how important an authority is in the fight against corruption because it is not. The fundamental authorities in this country that are persecuting corruption are certainly police officers or prosecutors below. And where do you think you're from? We have heard many times in the past, we have heard many times the representatives of the police - now I don't know whether they can speak anymore or not because they have a new director, I don't know now, I'm really sorry. But in the past, we have heard many instances of police leadership, the leadership of the Kosovo Criminal Police Commission, because the Kosovo Commission leaves them or sends them a series of things where it says, but here is the suspicion of the service of corruption, and the police find nothing because there is nothing or cannot prove it and so on. Worse still, this institution then simply discredits the police further because it says that the police are not effective. It's going on even longer. In 2004, this institution, I am talking about the commission, even told what the police organisation in the criminal police must be like in order to make it effective. Please, this is not the commission's jurisdiction! These are not the competences of this Commission and this is a problematic matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you very much again. Sometime in the debate, it was said that this law had been written for one man. Article 2 clearly sets out who this law refers to: hundreds of public officials. Indeed, the initiative was launched because of one man, and we all know it, and it was launched mainly because of the extreme public distrust of all public officials, in the whole public sphere. And the normal reaction in such cases, because on the part of this man the real reaction as it should be in such a case, was not that the legislation was trying to regulate itself in such a way that it could not occur in future to such cases. The purpose of this law is still preventive and has no ambition to extend this area of preventive action. However, the implications of what is enshrined in the law also imply a different political culture. Personally, I would like to hear a little different words in today's debate, because I think that these words are very important in relation to the public. Even if you decided not to support this law, such as it is, it would be an answer to the public if you left it in the next procedure, different than it will be today. This answer, which will be today or tomorrow, when we vote on this law and when it is not voted on against by the leaders of the groups, will be poor. It's gonna be bad. Not because of the opposition, which you want to tell us to run at this point of populism - because of you! Because you have every opportunity to upgrade the law in further procedures and reshape it as you think it would be appropriate for - I don't know how it was said - to find a comprehensive solution. Now this, "complete solutions", "systemic," that sounds very nice, the question of what comes out. I must say, Your Honor, the question is whether 60 pages are more quality than 16. What matters is the content, it doesn't matter how much you write. It is important what is written in this context and how it is then recorded. The law may also have only a few articles, if it is imposed in operational implementation in such a way as to achieve the purpose of the law through practice, then its purpose is achieved. In the government's rejection opinion, I read a paragraph that I have to say is very strange. It says: "The fact is that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption already in 2006, has established a wide network of institutions involved in the social process of preventing corruption and strengthening anti-corruption culture in society," but now this law will break this network. If we go to look at the legislation in force and how it works in this area - I don't know what is meant by these words? This reminds me of some parallel system, of some parallel state, which is not good, nor of the tasks that this commission has under law. For the essence of this is that, on the basis of what we are learning, we will then come to concrete decisions that would also have consequences in public finances. The purpose or final effect of this law is, of course, public finances. It is through this effective preventive action that we come up with a situation where public officials will not even be able to think about the conduct that this law is concerned with. As a result, the impact in the public financial sphere will not be insignificant. It's gonna be very big. And I think that all these objectives are to be ensured, in particular by the public, through transparency and also by a different approach and by a different mode of action in those cases involving institutions or individuals who are obliged to monitor these phenomena and, where they are properly perceived, to take appropriate action. This duality, which we have witnessed not only this year, since we have a new authority, has been witnessed by these institutions in the past, especially by the Commission to prevent corruption. And it has also been quite known to the public that it is very important, from which political field who comes, which is dealt with in this process. This is not a good trip. And in these cases, some of which have been mentioned above, this establishment of public trust would be significantly greater if these events were happening for the same purpose, regardless of which political field from which one comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you very much. After a few hours of discussion today, it is more or less clear that this law will overtake me, which saddens me. On the other hand, I am pleased with the words of Mr Lobnik, who says that in the new integrity law they will break with the existing practice of principled opinions, which are some hit by this anti-corruption commission. Not just a hit, but a principled opinion is the essence of this anti-corruption commission. It's some kind of perfidious manipulation in some divisive spirit and these principled opinions go to hundreds [[...]] May I say to the end, Mrs. Pechanova! In these principled opinions, no name is given, no last name is given; in these principled opinions, no name or surname is given in the press conference, but it is said in the hallway. It's all said in the hallway, followed by a massive media coup. I know a criminal who I met in my long-standing press practice, who wrote anonymouss himself, and then he went after these anonymous characters and chased people. This practice with these principled opinions is something similar, colleagues and colleagues. And I am pleased that Mr Lobnikar has taken here that principled opinion is something unconstitutional, unconstitutional. This is a kind of sophism, it's a deliberate misleading statement that appears in these opinions. But we do know what the opinion is: an opinion is an insecure knowledge of a condition unlike the truth. But the truths must be based on strict facts. And if these principled opinions were based on facts, that would not be a principled opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The present law, of course, has some intention, as they say, to curb corruption, to have a desire for transparency, to the public, and not know what. Given that I have read this law several times, I would only look at Article 2 of this Law and find that Article 2 did not systematically cover all the officials in this country. For example, in the first paragraph of this article, among those cited by the law, he concludes by saying: "other state authorities and mayors and parishioners in self-government local communities". We don't have city and municipal councilmen here if we're consistent. And according to other laws, especially the law on local self-government specifically states who the officials are. Finally, when we talk about the meaningful application of the law, we know what it means to apply the law in a meaningful way and how this meaningful application can be used in some way. At the end of the third paragraph of Article 2, it would be expected that, in addition to all officials, directors of various public institutions, also those companies which have shares in the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia or, for example, members of administrative committees, or in companies where they have a majority of the funds they draw from public funds; whether they are public funds from the State of Slovenia or other public funds and subsidies. So much for consistency and how and how we want to make the law accessible and actually systematic. Article 3 also discusses the meaning of other matters. I'd say I'm very concerned about the fact that family members are undecided. We know that Slovenian legislation defines family members differently in different laws. They can be just a father, a mother, a son, a daughter; they can be a husband, a wife, they can be cousins, they can be grandparents, and so on. There's a lot of confusion and confusion. Untransparentness and those matters which we have mentioned in this debate may occur that they are not sufficiently systemic and not fully exploited. But it pains me to have a political culture when we talk about duality and when we talk about words and different suspicious acts, and I don't know what kind of pretentious acts some of them have and what kind of lifestyle they want to anathemaize. I don't like it, and I think it's also good to point out this high choir, my colleagues and colleagues, that it's not exactly a place for all these things to be demeaned here in some way. About prevention and abuse. I can tell you that children, our family members, your family members will somehow abuse each other. Here we need to be very careful and very good to define things because there can be difficult stigmatization and if we have considered a series of laws, how and how this stigmatization is defined, it is good to think about it. So much for the consistency and systematicity of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament. Several times I had to see what we are actually discussing today, because the debate was about everything, including the view in the innocent eye, and perhaps we could expect a bill on alternative ways of determining the truth, and then this would be a suitable way for someone to be informed at this point in time when I say it. We may also get a proposal for a bill or even a proposal to amend the constitution so that some Members will feel good in the National Assembly to define there which professions are suitable for a Member, because it was said that a cartoonist is not a suitable profession, that an actor is not a suitable profession, a puppeteer. Yes, for example, I know that some, given personal circumstances, should not discuss certain laws so that age can be a problem. The real problem is that it is a lack of respect for the fellow Member and a lack of respect for the will of the electorate who appointed that Member or Member of Parliament as one of the nineties who is supposed to be equal. This is worrying in our debates. Not to mention any other option when different views of Members of Parliament and Members in public places are marked as an embarrassment on two legs or something like that. I will now return to this proposal for a law on public property of officials. On me, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has not yet written any fundamental opinion, but I always declare assets. And we're talking about a property application. And if it was the intention of the proposers of this law to simply change the addressee that the addressee for the application is no longer the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, but it is the Court of Auditors, then it was a large part, if not the majority part of this debate, of speaking in blank because we discussed the principled opinions that not only express themselves on this act of application of the Ombudsman's assets. I am very sorry that I will have to say something about the media, but it is not the criticism of the media, but the criticism of the behavior of officials. Since I've been a Member, I've usually been asked, in the summer months or before the elections, what my assets are. And until this year, I've always answered such questions. However, I remember many Members of the biggest opposition party who have not done so. And when I said this year to see where the property was reported, my conduct was marked as disrespectful to the public. But why did I do it? Because I had another experience when someone didn't tell me everything and then was persecuted. Now I will not go into this, but unfortunately the Members and Members of the biggest opposition party themselves have caught themselves in this loop of disclosure when they have reported on the websites - and I am not discussing the amount of the silent or forgotten disclosure of the property, it is a matter of principle that, if there are no rules to report, any of us who are obliged to report the property can happen if there are no rules to report. And it doesn't matter, I'm stressing once again how high the amount goes. If we are talking about whether everything is public, then we need to report everything, whether it's half an hour of worthless land or if it's some very small monetary value. The things that should be regulated in the legislation are clear rules on what must be declared, what can become of this declaration to be the subject of a public publication, because all things are not for publication. Because, do you know how the public is then, if we're talking about perception of the public? They once said, yes, what we're going to do with officials who have little wealth. We can look at it that way, so... [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you very much. First of all, let me say that I will say again what I have already said, I am joining my colleague Majda Potrát, that when someone is generously saying that now we are going to publish all the information about our property, and he does not say - at least I have not noticed that the limit is 10,000 euros, which is not so small, if we are purely honest - then anyone can become doubtful about the honesty of conduct, if someone is silent, do not forget, because this information is connected to a very problematic society in the public. That's what I'm going to say -- so, I wasn't talking about when someone then replicated to me about forgetfulness, I was talking about silence, about not wanting to say, because the shares were from a little bit of a strange society. And now we know she's weird, when this was bought, it probably didn't look like she was weird. Then I'd say something else. Previously, we have heard that Kosovo's commission is working on some of its methods, it can be understood from the connection that it is writing its own applications for a principled opinion and that there is no such concept in the Anti-Corruption Act. It's in Article 19, in the second indent! So the one who doesn't read the law that he wants to change - and once again I say this law didn't come about because of one man, but it did come about, as it did several times, because of at least two people. This other person is the one you wanted to eliminate at least twice from the Anti-Corruption Commission in the last term, and I am sure that you will not succeed this time either. In addition, I would like to ask you if you have not heard, read, seen that the Court of Auditors, which you are now offering your open heart to him in your palms for the purpose of controlling your assets, has just issued a negative opinion on the final accounts of the 2008 budget! What are you gonna do now? Will you now transfer public finances control from the Court of Auditors to an imaginary public entity or what? Will you give this to the Constitutional Court? After the Constitutional Court has ruled on a case that you are about to initiate, contrary to your wishes, you will put from the Constitutional Court where, to the tenth place, perhaps to the European Court, and there, the European Court, think, even at times, against the wishes of those who write laws! Not to mention that there have been so many different claims today, from the principled opinions of the Kosovo Commission - I will just call it Kosovo - that they are directed only against the right. Yes, for God's sake. At least three basic opinions, I know, because I haven't read them all, because I haven't been able to, because when a journalist asks you for a principled opinion from the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption, he issues this opinion in principle. And the journalist does the first thing he does is publish this principled opinion. And such principled opinions, which were not at all acceptable to me, which I claim to be left-handed - I don't know, I hope that at least you won't deny me this - were not favored by me. On the contrary! The main opinion was, not once, but repeatedly, a number of the principled opinions were that the conduct in the congregation of Izola, in particular, was indicative of corruption. God help! We fixed things quickly, arranged things, found that we were not doing the right thing, most likely, and - nothing. What's wrong with that? And people don't understand that we're criminals and that we're thieves because that's what principled opinion is. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Only then can it be said that this principled opinion has produced a bad picture of an individual. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I regret, Madam President, that you did not remind a fellow Member that she was in breach of the Rules of Procedure when she discussed the law on some other subjects that we will certainly be talking about in the National Assembly. She talked about the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u272	Dear colleague Chernač, this is not procedural, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u273	Yes, that's procedural, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u274	It's not procedural. This is a debate on the previous debate. Yes, you do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u275	No, I do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u276	Procedural proposal, you want something to suggest that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u277	I will make my procedural proposal - I know this hurts very much, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u278	I'm very interested in a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u279	delivered within the time limit available to me. [[...]] Thank you. And you didn't remind your fellow Member about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u280	I couldn't because I wasn't here for this table.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u281	in relation to this. [[...]] So, in 2008 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u282	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u283	Two governments were responsible for public finances and the budget, and the former government and the current government, Mr Borut Pahor, were not so important. [[...]] The Court of Auditors has issued its opinion, and I do not know what this has to do with this point. And what does this law have to do with giving him some powers that we think would be right for the Court of Auditors to enforce? But I find that you have not read the law, for in marriage you have not read it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u284	Mr. Chernač, I will have to take your word if you do not conclude or make a procedural proposal immediately, indeed. You know as well as I do that you are discussing, arguing with the previous debate, which is not envisaged for procedural proposals. Let's stick to this uniform standard for everyone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u285	Look, Mr President, I'll give you one minute and twelve seconds as much time as I have left, because I see that you're rested and you want to talk. So I suggest that, from now on, you speak only, and others do not have to give the floor, because we have now reached this point that parliamentary democracy is obvious only to the ruling. Those of us in the opposition will obviously have to remain silent after the new one. And our word in the National Assembly will probably not be heard if the chairman does not wish to. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are very clear. Mr President, you violated him three times by breaking up with me twice. I had the opportunity to make a procedural proposal in three minutes. You did not allow me to do this, so I ask you not to do so in the future when I return to the procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u286	Dear colleague Cernač, first of all, I would warn you that it is not the first time that you have addressed the President of the National Assembly or the President with very unchosen words and qualify him as tired or rested and so on. I would warn you that I am also trying when we are not exactly the same opinions, with which to treat and treat you with respect in the Chamber. I hope this works, and I expect the same treatment, even if you don't agree with me, from you. I've never been in this before. Thank you very much. The word is Procedural, Mr. Chernač. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u287	I would like to ask you, Mr President, to tell me on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly you have said what you have just said. I have only reminded you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, a Member has the right to explain his procedural proposal within three minutes. And you gave me these options to explain your procedural proposal and to submit it, you didn't give it to me. I've been interrupted several times in this exercise. You can't know in advance what I'm going to say in these three minutes. I think that's inappropriate and inappropriate, which is why I've expressed my expectation that you won't do this again in the future. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly apply equally to you, as I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Darja Lovtišar Bebler spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am also sorry that I still do not know what kind of procedural proposal my speaker wanted to make here. Now the woman is giving me curiosity. I'd say that. Today, it has been repeatedly said here that the European Central Bank has no objection to public disclosure of the assets of officials. This is logical for the European Central Bank to have this position. However, the European Central Bank does not have before us what we are described as the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors in the constitution. And it is not as simple as Mr Gorenak said before, that if the Court of Auditors has jurisdiction A, we will add jurisdiction B to it. If this is how we view constitutional provisions and our constitutional order, then I believe that some who have much imagination would even come to the letter Z, but the matter is not so simple. And let me also say that if one of us expresses the view that a provision is contrary to the Constitution, it is nothing to be disputed. I'm just imagining that I can express my position, my opinion that I believe that this is contrary to the Constitution. Among other things, because I may know something about constitutional law. If we express ourselves as previously said, then a professor of constitutional law, who is not a constitutional judge, cannot express his position at lectures that a law is not in accordance with the Constitution. You probably already know that's not the case. I would like to say one more thing, because I heard some mockery in the Chamber when Mr State Secretary mentioned earlier that this, again, is, say, shortened, Kosovo's commission to enjoy the reputation in Europe. Yeah, I can confirm that and always confirm that. You know why? Because I know the work of Mr Kos, who is Chairman of the GRECO Group in the Council of Europe, and because his work there is highly appreciated and because in some other European countries, they also take our model of regulation, the so-called Kosovo Commission, as an example, and then have put similar solutions into their internal legal order. Just so that it doesn't hang in the air and the public doesn't hear this mockery, which is completely unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. You want a replica? You weren't appointed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] He was named! Then it's Dr. Gorenak's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. It would be really good to listen to each other. Well, like you just said, we can agree that you think this could have been unconstitutional. That's how I agree. Before that, however, the hard form was used in the discussion! It's against the Constitution. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, no, we can't do that. I agree with the final debate, yours, not the previous one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! That's right, some actually I'm going to start like this: I'm one of those who's very cleared with the Kosovo Commission and also with the declaration of their assets, which is public, which I can show at any moment, whoever wants, here in this country. [[...]] Besides, it bothers me that some people say they're ashamed to sit here. I'm not ashamed to be sitting with you respected colleagues and colleagues. I am not ashamed that we are together, but of course I am repeatedly ashamed of the debates, and today was no exception. Today's debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Publicity of Officials was in some segments a debate that absolutely does not deserve to take place in the highest body of this country, that is, in the National Assembly. And let me take away that demagogy, and let me also think of the word after performing in front of the cameras, but I cannot imagine that this debate on this bill also includes many insults, many conjectures, many revenges and all such content, which are irrational to me and, once again, do not belong to this National Assembly. DeSUS’s position on the proposal for this law has been decided and made public. We highly respect and appreciate all those attempts against corruption, although let me say here that corruption and this law on public ownership of officials are actually two different things. However, the vortex of the debate in the National Assembly is so filled with the confusion of all these concepts and at the end, when someone says, "You are afraid to adopt and to confirm this law," I feel really that I am in this vortex and that I will somehow present myself to the public in the light of the fact that the officials are all somehow connected to corruption and that we are dealing with it. This, secondly, deeply grieves me, although, once again, all those who are trying to do anything to reduce corruption, which is really our big problem, and for which the public also thinks that something needs to be done, then let me say that the DeSUS Group has defined itself to a proposal that is very good, very constructive and consistent in some segments, but does not fully represent the solution that we want to achieve by reducing corruption or by achieving what this law provides. And once again, the Group of Members is determined to give support and trust to the Government in the preparation of the integrity law, where it will be reliable and we expect and at the same time demand that these things be included in this debate, so that these elements, which have been expressed here today, will also be inserted into this content. Otherwise, let me say it in the end. I think we all agree that these things need to be dealt with and processed with with a strong sense and understanding and that these discussions, which have been constructive and well-intentioned, are probably a good starting point or at least a starting point for thinking about creating an integrity law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It was all too much today, in my opinion, to say hurtful words. This certainly does not belong in the National Assembly, and in fact it does not matter today who is ashamed or ashamed to sit here. It is important that each person in his/her capacity essentially changes his/her debate in order to be substantive and not focus on personal discredits. And Mr Tanko, before re-labelling someone as fat, dry, thin, because now he is not in the hall, so I will speak in general, I suggest that before we declare such personal discredits, we count to ten, let us imagine what this might mean for an outward example. Above all, this is not appropriate for Members who must be exemplary, but especially for the leader of the Group of Members, who is also somehow leading his Members and Members. And I agree that this space, i.e. the National Assembly, is a space for arguments and in my opinion these arguments in today's law are the following. First time. Today we are faced again with one of the days when SDS tries to try to mislead the public with the popular title of the law, this is my opinion, and before it to act as a party who only advocates the publication of the assets of officials. Personally, I have no problem publishing my assets. I did so, not only to the anti-corruption commission, but also to all the media that asked me to do so. Why? Because I'm not hiding anything because I think it's normal for an official, but not in this way -- and it leads to my second argument. Your marriage is ready for force. If someone does not see reservations in this law, then let them look into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it is only a desire to like how best to present an idea to the public that you are the only one in the SDS who want to settle this area as it is right. And if that were true, then we would have done it in the previous term, but it seems, in most cases, like the good ideas on your part are coming just now. Third time. With your proposal, you withdraw the competence of the anti-corruption commission and that is a fact. This has obviously been a great pain in your past and in your previous term, and it bothers you terribly, and my question is why. Because maybe you don't have a person to run this anti-corruption commission - that is, whether it's not your person - or whether it bothers you that when an irregularity arises, it is published in public. But we must all be aware of one thing: the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission must not be ours, yours, third, fourth and so on. This must be an independent person who will also perform such a function. And that's essentially the essence of this anti-corruption commission. But regardless, for you the opinion - and we have seen this in the past - of any commission, it doesn't matter, because you're always trying to discredit it and, of course, reduce its role. Fourth time. In the bill you transfer certain powers to the Court of Auditors. I don't know why, because, above all, the Court of Auditors has never been a competent institution for you, at least it shows how you misjudge all its findings. Not only that! In the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia you even hope to blackmail on the topic of the final account and in this way not only to discredit the institution, but in particular to highlight or talk about information such as are not, in principle, true. I hope that you will at least now that the Court of Auditors has issued a finding today on the irregularity of the lack of unintended use of funds in 2008 and so on, you can see that I am not continuing because there is no place for this today, and there will be a great deal of time for that, at least now, that you will see this institution as important, because, finally, you are giving it so much importance today. But what's the point? The point is, when the Court of Auditors finds out something, the SDS swings its hand and talks and works the same way. Today you wish to give your proposal to the Court of Auditors more valid, on the other hand you do not take into account its opinion. And that, dear colleagues, is double for me, but this is something we're so used to in the National Assembly. Fifth. The government is drafting a law on integrity, which has been said many times. In here it will also be recorded and control of the assets of the officials, conflict of interest, banning business to the company and so on. The key segments will be covered by the law; the aim is therefore not to create concealment and corruption. You had the opportunity, the fact is that you saw that the government was preparing this whole thing, which you didn't, so you rushed it, you wrote a law with a wider title, and today you waved to the National Assembly that you did it honestly. Perhaps we should put another record in the marriage, and it is that officials must also publish where they have graduated, because obviously there is not always a great truth here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Dr Branko Lobnikar, Secretary of State, gets the text. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up an opinion on the proposed law on the public property of officials, on which it has expressed its opinion that this proposed law is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether this law or the text of this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. And the government always accepts its opinion. And he's very argumentatively trying to say why he thinks that some marriage is, and why he thinks that some marriage is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia made a proposal for a law tabled by members of the National Assembly. We believe that, on the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which allowed us to make a competent decision, the determination of the law before us by Members is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, nor with the law governing the work of the Court of Auditors. It is true, however, that the Members of the National Assembly can amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on the Court of Auditors and charge this work to the Court of Auditors. We considered the law to be a kind of act because it does not cover all the details that officials and other important people have to record when reporting their assets. Today we have heard several times that the Minister of this Government, Mr Gregor Golobič, was not the reason that this law was written. But there was a reason, the proposaler said, which means that he was given the role of Gabriel Princip, which led to a great war. Even if this was the case, it should be noted that, as the proposal for a law written down by Members, even if it had been in force, such a law would not have caught such a fish. It will be captured by the law on integrity prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on which this occasion is the full-blooded minister. No one will report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that they do not want to act transparently. This is our commitment before the elections, is when we rule, and it will be all the time. The law that we are preparing is the Law of Integrity, and it is the Systematic Regulation that regulates things because, together with the declaration of property, it also identifies other areas which, in the field of ensuring the transparency of common good, according to domestic honesty, need to be regulated in order to develop a culture of common good in some society. And the principled opinions on which so many words have been spoken today are intended for this purpose. And this is the opinion of the Constitutional Court. It was my pleasure to hear from Member Friday, who reiterated his opinion, which he had prepared for the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which I had to present in the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court says that they are good - no! - in fact, they are an excellent tool, as a teaching aid for all civil servants and officials, to be able to judge what is right and what is wrong, which Mrs. Ambassador said very well later. However, what the Constitutional Court has written down in its constitutional opinion is that, as the SDS Members have mentioned, it is necessary to allow the person dealt with in the principle opinion all constitutionally and legally guaranteed judicial protection. And now we are changing our thinking in principle so that this principled opinion is, of course, still present, but judicial protection is also provided. Regarding property registration: Anyone who owns something can do whatever he wants with it, he can also read it to anyone, but he doesn't make it a law. It is therefore necessary to adhere to the rules which speak of the need to report all assets to all officials, and only what is acquired in the mandate is public. This was written down by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u299	Mr President, the motion for this law is not a Government, but a group of Members, and if you have given your word to the representative of the Government, then I expect you to give me, as a representative of the motioners, the same word, because in the previous procedure, when the debate took place, I have debated as a representative of the proposalr last. This law is not proposed by the Government, but we are Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have not proposed this law for ourselves, but for the integrity of all public officials and it will not only apply to Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party if it is adopted, but also to representatives of the ruling parties. In such a way that the law which regulates this matter appropriately does not remove the Commission from its eight chapters to prevent corruption amends the provisions of only one chapter, and this is what has been considered at least in the current work of the Commission to prevent corruption more than an administrative action to transmit the data of the officials in that committee; none of these officials since its existence has been verified since then whether his assets have been increased or not. The fact that the Court of Auditors may have these powers has been established several times, and what we consider to be important as proposing is that it is important to do so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u300	Mr. Chernač, you have exceeded the procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u301	The European Central Bank has also positively defined, in its written opinion, the European Central Bank, which has defined itself to all the provisions of this Act and has also identified itself as positive to them. [[...]] Thus, I must say that I am surprised to accept some arguments that also indicate a lack of knowledge of what the law says. It has been said that 10,000 euros is a strange restriction. See, this is what the law says, and if you find the restriction odd, it could be changed in the next legislative procedure, if you do not have a negative definition of the law now, too. What is essential in this law is to focus on those public officials where the possibility of this danger is higher. As a result, it does not cover some 10,000 such and different persons, but those who are more at risk in their work. I am also surprised by this lack of support because the presidents of your parties have so far had no problem making their assets public. It is true, however, that the President of one of the parties in this regard has silenced an essential part, and this story of whether the current regime is effective or not has also begun. I propose that we respect the Rules of Procedure and that, as a representative of the proposalr under these Rules of Procedure, Mr President, we should be able to have a final thought, as the Rules of Procedure stipulates, because we are proposing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u302	The first thing is, I let you go to the end to see if there really was any serious procedural proposal, but it wasn't. First of all, you had your last word as a representative of the proposer. Since there was still time for discussion, my predecessor asked, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone wanted to discuss it. Nine plus one panellists were reported, because the government cannot register, it is not on screen, but the representative has applied. You signed up, and you got your word. From this point of view, I have done exactly as I have always done in the previous term and today. However, you abused this procedural question by trying to answer what was said in the debate. With all the debaters taking the floor, I conclude the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Friday, 25 September, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on redress within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, a group of 21 Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Dr Vinko Gorenak, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u303	Take a good look, and you'll see [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u304	The button went off on its own. Peace in the hall. Please, Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Thus, at the late hour, the law on changes and additions to the law on legal representation is before us. We have decided to make this change because we believe and appreciate that it is imperative to cut into this law for many or more reasons. The law was essentially adopted in 1993 and has experienced a very, very or very large number of changes since then to date. The last change, as you know, was in May 2009. We regret to note that we are not prejudiced, but we regret to note that disciplinary procedures have been taken into account in that change, I mean disciplinary proceedings against lawyers, brought back into the field of lawyers and re-decision on their own, this also applies to tariffs that have come under the bar and, of course, agrees in accordance with the Minister's law. The change we've decided on actually has a number of things. The first point I would like to draw your attention to is that we still use the law on lawyering or still have the term "internal affairs bodies" in the law on lawyering. This term in the amendments to the law is converted into one that is compatible with the law on police. That's the term "police." However, this change is slightly less important. The current legislation also provides that those judges and those state prosecutors who move from judicial or prosecutorial types to lawyers have certain limitations. In fact, it's limited to representation. We are also extending this matter to counseling and advocacy, and what is the most important or most important amendment to this law is that we are setting a competitive clause in the law on lawyering in some way. Why? In the proposal for a law on lawyering, it is envisaged that the so-called three-year prohibition or restriction on the exercise of a legal profession would apply to judges and prosecutors. Why are we making this decision? Because this is the first time that the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has decided 9. Seven. 2008 and ordered the government, ordered it if you want to try to make a change in this direction. Of course, there are a number of reasons for this in practice. Remember the cases of Judge Šubic, who went in the opposite direction as we know. We have the case of Mr Ironman, as the prosecutor who passed through, we have the case of Mr Penk, who went to law enforcement. This is the latest case, when, in fact, yesterday's, if we caricose a little bit, yesterday's prosecutor, who [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u306	Peace in the hall, please. Mr. Gorenak, you don't have to answer the bench questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u307	I know I don't owe it to you, but you know, it's hard. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u308	You have to be used to it, sometimes we've been used to huronic shouting after various demonstrations, but you don't remember that, and I do. Oh. K.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u309	Well, well, well. Thank you very much. There are more and more of these passages. The last one is typical, and if we caricature it a little bit, being a prosecutor at midnight, and a minute after midnight by a lawyer, the situation is relatively clear. This actually forces us into such a matter as the Constitution. We want to achieve the right to a fair trial, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which, in such cases, may be at risk. [[...]] More in the presentation of the Group's position, given the fact that I was receiving interruptions from Mrs Pecanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening to you all at this late hour. I know you're tired, so I'll be brief. The government has addressed the proposal for a new law on legal representation, as it has been incorporated into the legislative procedure. It accepted the view that such a proposal is unnecessary in one part and that, in one part, the Government believes, even in violation of the Constitution. It is unnecessary in that part of Article 1 of the draft law, because the law in force, namely, that which is currently in force, provides in Article 5 that a lawyer must refuse representation if he has represented the opposite party in the same case if the opposite party is represented by a lawyer who works in the same lawyer's office or as an employee lawyer a lawyer or an intern has worked with a lawyer who has represented the opposite party if, in the same way, he has worked as a judge, a state prosecutor, an authorised person of the internal affairs authorities or as an official person in the administrative procedure and in other cases established by law. The applicant now places restrictions on other legal activities, in accordance with Article 2, which is, to the legal advice and defence of the parties before the courts and other state authorities. According to the Government, the addition of this duty of refusal in the work relating to the defence of parties before the courts and other public authorities is unnecessary because it is a matter of defending representation. Therefore, the prohibition of representation already in force includes the defence of the parties before the courts and other public authorities. However, what is probably more important for the applicant is Article 2, which regulates the so-called competitive clause, where the Institute of Temporary Postponance of Access to the Performing of a Lawyer’s Activity should apply until three years have elapsed since the date on which the Judge or Prosecutor’s Office ceased to function, the Government considers this arrangement to be highly problematic, in particular in the light of Article 49 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This defines the right to freedom of work. This human right shall be exercised in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution directly on the basis of the Constitution. While the law may prescribe a way to exercise such rights, it must be laid down in the Constitution first or if it is necessary because of the nature of the right itself. However, this right may be restricted only in cases expressly established in the Constitution. And such a right is limited by the rights of others. And since our Constitution does not provide for a so-called reservation to the law for this right under Article 49, so-called explicit constitutional restriction, only restrictions on the protection of the rights of others can be constitutionally permissible. And here the motioner proposes that this should be limited to the right to a fair trial arising from Article 23 of the Constitution. The government here, however, points out that this right is exercised primarily through the independence of the judge. It is therefore the one that ensures the realization of a fair trial. The requirement of independence, impartiality comes from a judge's function for the duration of his duties. This means that, in the event that it constitutes the basis for an action under Article 49 of the Constitution to ensure the right to a fair trial and if the right to a fair trial concerns judges, then this would be the case if the restriction, if necessary or if the Council of State considered it necessary, should apply in the opposite direction, it should apply in reverse, as the transition to the function of a judge could cause or create the appearance of bias or dependence, but the applicant does not propose that. This intervention in constitutional law should be proportionate, according to the Government, and the Government also refers to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in a similar case, although not identical, was adopted in 1996. For this reason, the Government considers that this regulation would not be constitutionally coherent in this Article and gives a negative opinion on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u313	Thank you very much. I will continue where I had previously finished or was not allowed to finish. Look, there's something else you need to know about this. On behalf of the Group of Members, I inform you that we are deeply convinced that such a restriction must be imposed. Let's just look at the comparison. In no way can we compare a prosecutor or a judge leaving with a lawyer, for example, a policeman who wants to work in detective-security organisations. For a purely simple policeman you meet here outside, or the one sitting there in the X-ray or the one we have on the road and directing traffic, believe me, this officer has no intelligence or anything, but a provision has been adopted in this Chamber of this National Assembly that prohibits any employment in security, that is, in detective organizations. We do not wonder whether the police could also have any constitutional rights as set out in Article 49. I think cops are equal citizens, and they have rights. We restricted these rights, or those who were then sitting in the National Assembly, to four years. They can't get a job for four years. Even if a police officer is disciplined, he won't be able to work in detective organizations for four years. Our objective is reversed, the aim is to ensure the constitutional right of citizens to a fair trial. But we can't talk about fair trial in case things like this happen. When someone who is a lawyer who is a judge or, say, a prosecutor can get acquainted with the whole file in one way or another, let us simply leave the way he got acquainted with this file as a lawyer of the opposite party tomorrow. Don't tell me that's what you could call protecting citizens' constitutional rights to a fair trial. Let me subdue something else. Look, the Swedish statute of the bar, by the way, it's not accepted by the bar, it's confirmed by the Swedish government, it says that judges and prosecutors can't become lawyers. Never, ladies and gentlemen! Not three years, as in Slovenia, as we suggest. Sweden, so judges and prosecutors can't become lawyers. Never, I emphasize. Come on, Germany. An application for entry between lawyers must be rejected by the judge and the prosecutor. German legislation. However, with us, if I take the longer time to present what we have at our disposal, we have the right to work that judges and prosecutors have, so we are defending this right, but we are not defending the right of citizens to a fair trial. I would not object if the Government proposed and we immediately press the reverse button if there were any restrictions or prohibitions in order to ensure fair trial rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u315	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In certain cases, the bill before us restricts the legal activity not only for representation but also for legal advice and the defence of parties before the courts and other state bodies and allows for the direct transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers. The prohibition of representation already includes a prohibition on the defence of a party, which is also based on the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides in Article 69, paragraph 3, that the defence counsel must not be the one who was either a judge or a state prosecutor in the same case. The applicant shall establish an institute of temporary suspension of access to legal activity whereby a person acting as a judge or a state prosecutor does not fulfil the conditions for the exercise of a lawyer for three years from the termination of that function. This requirement also needs consideration by the Government. There have been many such abuses, after all, it was in Cyprus that the President of the Court came to the types of lawyer's opposing party and this was a flagrant abuse of some case of freedom to work. We join those who advise on this. Whether this can be achieved by such a law, of course, is another issue. Indeed, in its 49th Article, the Constitution defines the right to freedom of work; restrictions are permissible only for the protection of the rights of others. The Constitutional Court has also repeatedly stressed that such restriction is only permissible in accordance with the principle of proportionality. The applicants justify the proposed restriction on the protection of the rights of others, namely the right to a fair trial. However, any judge must be so independent and impartial, and the independence of the judge is the one that ensures the realization of a fair trial. Despite the concerns expressed and despite this call for reflection in the point on the transfer of judges to the types of lawyers without any restrictions, we will indeed follow the opinion of the Government in this case, and we will not support such a bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The opinion of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on lawyering is as follows. As you can see, the content of the law, which is exactly the same as the law that was already on our tables, came to the table and was examined in the previous term just before the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, so the debate on this law was interrupted at that time. Otherwise, the basic idea of this proposal is to prevent the direct passage of judges and prosecutors between lawyers last year has been the subject of hot debates at extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. The reason for such a measure was certainly the case with Penko. To sum up briefly, the applicant proposes to prohibit work to those who would like to leave the courts and go to lawyers by also prohibiting their right to counsel. The position of the DeSUS Group is clear on this. Members of the DeSUS of such a proposal, which we consider to be extremely radical, cannot be supported in any way. The incompatibilities of the performance of functions are already adequately regulated in existing legislation for both lawyers, prosecutors and judges. Of course, we agree that the State must have a judicial system that ensures fair trial, impartiality and independence of judges and respect for constitutional rights, but such a solution as is proposed that is essential to the system of both the judiciary and the judiciary will certainly not help to achieve the objectives of the law. As an additional argument for not supporting this proposal on our part, we also see in the insufficiently substantial and reasonable arguments presented in the explanation that would convince us otherwise. Therefore, we believe that the proposed restriction on the transition to legal types is not designed in a comprehensive manner and will not satisfy the purpose pursued by the applicant. It is interesting to note, however, that the applicant does not consider the transition inappropriate, i.e. the transition of lawyers to a number of judges, which is an additional reason to doubt the appropriateness of the solution proposed. The DeSUS Group does not support the proposed and unconstitutional restrictions on freedom of work, since it is neither necessary to protect the rights of others nor does it comply with the principle of proportionality or the necessity of such action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u319	Nice greeting and thank you for your word. I'm just gonna start by saying that we're gonna support this marriage. This is quite clear, because what happens in Slovenia when judges and prosecutors are transferred between lawyers is unacceptable. The whole series of cases are such as are teaching examples for legal books. If we take it to the prosecutors, it's Mr. Iron, if we take it from other prosecutors, it's Mr. Penko and so on. Even so, some cases took place in such a way that, during the same case, the status of that person changed from a prosecutor to a lawyer. It can't be. And despite the fact that this happened, this man remained in that position and was not excluded because he knew all things on the one hand and on the other. In the 20s and 30s of the previous century alone in America, those so-called paid judges and paid prosecutors, who knew about one side and the other, did what required payment by the one who paid them. I hope that we are not on this path in Slovenia, although sometimes people think that we are longer than we were just at the beginning of this journey. I think it's wise that there's a three-year suspension period here, at least three years. Some say that the law does not prohibit the transfer of lawyers between judges. We do not yet know this case in Slovenia. For despite the fantastic service of judges, lawyers serve even better. Few people who want to make things worse may ever change, given that the government is rapidly raising the profits to our judges. Here in these matters we should settle another matter, which is not regulated by law, but can also be fixed over time, related ties. There are many cases in Slovenia where the wife is a judge and the husband is a lawyer. Or vice versa, whether the husband is the prosecutor, or the wife is a judge or something. The relationship between the two is terrifying in Slovenia. There are courts where essentially one or two related clans control the operation of the courts. That's unacceptable. Perhaps it would be better for judges to be taken abroad in this case, given a translator and given a trial. In this way we could even tame these judges who are so greedy that they have no peace and have no measure of when it is necessary to stop eating up the Slovenian state and the Slovenian taxpayers. There's one thing that's special about lawyers. As it seems, Mr Kozinc has proposed two things in the coming law to bring about a drastic increase in these high prizes. In this case it is only what companies pay, it would reduce, of course, but to dramatically increase these basic tariffs. Of course, at least that's not acceptable right now. However, I fear that this may happen in the mediation law and that there will be such a strange solution as will be dictated by the head of the bar. I hope this doesn't happen, but I'm afraid. There's a lot going on in the courtrooms and lawyers, and he knows a lot of things. And there's not much to know about these things. After all, the taxpayer will always pee thinly. Lawyers will serve, judges will sit in their seats until death or longer, and they will probably draw money after death. I expect that in one of the following novels of our state administration, we will introduce some form of dead souls, that it will be in, and I fear that Gogol will be processed, staged and prepared new seats in the courts for these dead souls. That's possible, too. What prevents this bill is an obligation which the Slovenian state should have already done in its own right. Members of Parliament must not deal with anything other than their profession. Of course, except for some professors who know what logs are, who teach at two, three, four colleges and serve beautifully. And we don't see these professors in here, either. I hope the mayors get out. This government has promised, but of course it has not done anything. The parishioners have nothing to do in here. Whether they're mayors or they're MPs. Slovenia is full of such deviations. We have one mayor, too, but he's been talking and supporting the law that mayors should get out. But, of course, every government finds one option, looking for connections, lobbying and so on. Again, there are arrangements, such arrangements as we see them in all areas, even in the legal field, unfortunately. I think there's one more thing with a lawyer who's scary. Slovenian lawyers demand payment regardless of whether they do or do nothing. He asks for money, and once he gets it, he gets a "fuck" for a client. I know quite a few of these cases because people have been calling on our client to help them. There's nothing we can do. The Bar Association defends its cause and does not allow any doubt. Therefore, once again, I ask that it might be good if, now that we are in the European Union, where you have brought us to, in order to call some gentlemen from the European Union, they could bring some translators with them. I think Slovenian courts would collapse in a very short time. The way our courts work, we know that it's basically the "guests" they judge. And in those tables they're just writing different customer statuses and then condemning them. Depending on where political it belongs, where it belongs financially, who's friends with whom, who's with who's in the joint. The law solves one segment. And it's a good thing he's saving him, so we're gonna support this marriage. However, this issue should certainly be addressed in an integrated manner. That's the government's job. But I'm afraid the government won't take this mission away because they can't take it away because they can't take it away and because they won't take it away. That's three, why not, which can't be crossed. If one goes too far, the other two are still here. I fear that the law will not be adopted because it must not be adopted. What are the judges going to say, but what are the gentlemen lawyers going to say, and what are the gentlemen prosecutors going to say? Don't talk to me, because here we cut their bread or apologize, we don't cut their bread, here we cut their sweat, and this little thinner piece of pot. Unfortunately, some people eat bread at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u320	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed amendments to the Law on Lawyers for principle reasons. If we place on the scale the free choice of the profession and the legal security of citizens and citizens, they will certainly weigh them. The Constitution states that everyone has the right to decide on his rights and duties and on charges against him without undue delay on an independent, impartial and legally constituted court. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also stated that in cases where a lawyer who appears before a court is a former judge or prosecutor of a court or another court, the opinion of judges who judge may raise the issue of impartiality, since the lawyer is therefore their former resident colleague. The controversy surrounding Article 49 of the Constitution, which provides for free choice of employment, does not seem to us on the spot. It is also launched by the Government in its opinion on this bill and we must acknowledge that this seems to us, nicely said, inappropriate. Why? For the first time, because we know that constitutional rights are limited by law in order to protect the rights of others, and as I said at the outset, the right to a fair trial is certainly one that can limit the free choice of employment. Secondly, why the right to free choice of employment is not cited in thousands of cases by those who are losing their long-term jobs after the current tape and who, according to the Bode government, should not be given false hope. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for a law because we stand for every human being to deserve a fair trial and because it is necessary to eliminate or prevent anything that might interfere with our judiciary in order to be impartial, but not to listen almost daily to stories about how unjust and short-term illogical decisions shape the fate of a small man. As it is said, the parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General. At the Liberal Democrats Club of Slovenia, we will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers, as the applicants forget the position of the former Minister of Justice when they were in power or led by the Government. When it's 28. 1. 2008 The then Minister of Justice Dr. Lovro Šturm answered the question about the transfer of judges to the lawyers' offices, and replied as follows: "In connection with the departure of the President of the Koper District Court of Bogomir Horvat to Matoz's law firm, let me repeat the already well-known position that this is nothing unusual, this has already happened and there is nothing illegal. No legal irregularities can be attributed to this act. Just as lawyers can change jobs, lawyers can use these rights and there is no issue. There are many cases of lawyers leaving their own species and becoming judges or notaries or hiring public authorities. On the contrary, even former judges become lawyers, notaries, the law allows even the award of judges, for example, at the Ministry of Justice. There's something very common about the latter abroad. It is a normal fluctuation, which is characteristic and completely identical also abroad, not least it is an individual decision of each lawyer individually," the end of the quote. Today, when ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia are no longer in the coalition, they are apparently also affected by memory loss in addition to the loss of the elections, as they propose to change exactly what they thought was completely understandable a year earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, counseling is a free profession. Nowhere, I repeat, anywhere in Europe knows the regulation, as proposed today by the bill-makers. Only Cyprus is aware of the restriction on the transition of judges and prosecutors between lawyers in Europe, and only for one year after the termination of a judicial or prosecutorial function. There is no such arrangement anywhere else, as proposed by SDS colleagues today. In the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Lawyers, the applicant refers to the performance of a judicial profession as a judge or as a state prosecutor, while the applicant does not take into account the possibility that a judge under the Judicial Service Act may also be transferred or assigned and that in some of these cases he does not perform judicial functions, so a restriction including these cases could prove excessive. The same applies to a state prosecutor who may be assigned to the Ministry of Justice. Because we believe that such a proposal, as proposed by the proponents, is unconstitutional, because we believe that it is neither meaningful nor a solution to any pressing problems in the Slovenian justice system, we will not support the proposal in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Miran Potrč on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law's proponents assume that one reason to reduce confidence in a fair and impartial trial is also the fact that judges and prosecutors are allowed to enter the legal profession without having to go through a certain period of time without allowing the transition to take place. They've been proposing for three years. It is possible to agree with the applicants that the confidence of citizens and citizens in a fair and independent trial in our society is strongly shaken. However, the decrease in the reputation of justice is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, mainly linked to the judicial backlogs that occur for many other reasons, particularly because of the scope of all kinds of claims and for systemic reasons, which often give the same meaning to wealthful matters as serious rights enforcement issues and often make it possible to abuse procedural provisions to make it difficult and delay judicial proceedings. It cannot be argued that the competence of judges and their personal characteristics are not relevant. They are important, as well as policy and public assessments, which assess court proceedings without sufficient knowledge and even wish to display certain practices unilaterally. In our view, partial solutions will not change the situation, so in the Group of Social Democrats we believe that the issues of the situation of the judiciary must be dealt with in a sound and comprehensive manner. But that's not the proposal that he's prepared to make. First of all, no special support was found by the applicants for a temporary suspension of the right to switch from the position of judge or prosecutor to a lawyer in the draft law in international comparisons. This is also understandable because, according to our record, only Cyprus has a legal one-year ban on transition between all EU countries. Therefore, the cases cited in the practice of other countries point in particular to the prohibition of simultaneous work, but not to the time-limit for transition, at the same time the performance of the work of the judge, the lawyer, the prosecutor and the like also contain provisions of our law on lawyering, which provides in Article 5 that a lawyer must refuse representation even if he was a judge or a prosecutor in the same case. The law therefore already knows the limit and the applicants are only trying to implement it further in another way, but it is not established in other countries of the European Union, which is also indicated by the applicant's statements. It is also right to state and point out that the issue of the transfer of judges and prosecutors to the legal profession, although in the same case, has already been addressed by the Constitutional Court. It repealed the provisions of the Law on Lawyers, by which those who were a first-degree judge or a court-martial judge before a court-martial may not have been established in the territory of the place in which he performed that function before the court of first instance. The Court first concluded whether the decision taken to achieve the impartiality of the judges was inappropriate, while stressing that this assessment was already sufficient for the annulment and further constitutional examination of the compatibility of such a decision with Article 49 of the Constitution on freedom of work. So what would it be like in the proposed case, we cannot judge. That is why no reference can be made to this decision of the Constitutional Court. In particular, in relation to these issues, it is also relevant to recall the categorical advocacy of the possibility of transition, both systematic and ethical, which was advocated by former Justice Minister Dr Lovro Šturm in the event of the transition of the President of the District Court in Cyprus to Matoz's law firm. So it wasn't even about the judge, it was about the president of the district court, and neither was the law firm, given its activity, which it is. So when you're in power, dear gentlemen, you say one thing when you're in opposition, something else. That is also why this proposal is not credible. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that these are sufficient reasons for assessing the proposed solutions in the law as inappropriate, in order to achieve a legitimate objective, greater confidence in justice, which we must achieve through comprehensive systemic solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please. Mr. Žerjav, please wait for a motioner who would like to speak. Please, please. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you very much. It's a real riot you can't see me. Look, there's something you need to say. I can see that I speak more than the empty halls, but at least those who follow it through the media will only know what it is. Our proposal is very simple. The law prohibits and prevents the direct transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers. So we're preventing a situation, we're trying to prevent a situation where at thirty-three fifty-nine judges or prosecutors, at zero one, say, the next day, so the next minute, will be a lawyer. We just want to stop it and nothing else. I am very surprised by the radical opposition of the Government, and it has also overlooked that we are correcting the term "authorised official" to "policeman" in order to make the law compatible. The government isn't even going to say, "Oh, now we're going to screw them up, and we're going to support the law, and the law will be officially supported because it will go through where the authorized official will be turned into a police officer." No, because that's what the opposition said, it's not. An extremely radical measure, we've heard that. Yeah, for God's sake, isn't it an extremely radical measure with cops? We protect whether the government wants to protect or wants to protect the so - called right to work or, as has already been said, the right to freedom of work. Yeah! We protect and protect the right to freedom to work by judges and lawyers in Slovenia, we know about how many. Why does this same coalition, or why does this same National Assembly limit this right to tens of thousands of police officers? We have about ten thousand police officers who do not have the constitutional right to work, says. In fact, the law forbidded them, and what four years did not allow them to work in security or detective organizations. There used to be a lot of speeches, someone said, "I'm ashamed to be in this National Assembly," at the previous point. Yeah, I feel really bad. I feel weak that this same legislative body limits the right of tens of thousands of police officers, it is said, to the right to freedom of work while not restricting this same right to judges and prosecutors. No, so is there any other convention on discriminatory conduct anywhere or anything. No, no, no. No, it's just one thing, and the other one's not. As for some, we can raise their wages if they are in court, but for others they have no connection; they are so without connection in the Mura. Yeah, that's how we act. Look, the judge's independence. Please! It is therefore the independence of the judge to ensure a fair trial. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, right and right! Yes, of course it would be nice if it were true. It's not. It's not true. The Minister felt on his own skin in the first days of July what they did to him when he said I would limit the awards to bankruptcy managers. Yeah, well, then who went into action behind the minister's back? Behind the back of the National Council, behind the back of the government. He took action in a part of the judiciary, which awarded EUR 2 million 300,000 in seven working days of bankruptcy awards. Months later, less than 100,000. So he's increased his productivity 24 times. Me for who? He did it for the bankruptcy managers. Who are the bankruptcy managers? Lawyers. There are 60 of them in Slovenia. Have you seen this circle? And now we're talking about an independent judiciary. The Minister has already felt this independent judiciary. And we all felt this independent judiciary. And don't talk me into this. Judges are people, too, with all the mistakes. This time they've been denied, and there'll be no guarantee that they won't keep it from me tomorrow. We have no guarantee. See, some of the cases you mentioned or some of them were listed. Yesterday or two days ago, the Law on Salaries was confirmed in the National Assembly, czech, judges and prosecutors could also be punished, they could be given a permanent term and so on and so on. When I asked the SD MP to give me five cases, she wouldn't answer me. Yeah, well, he can't answer either, because that's what the paper says. That's what the paper says. When the Railway happens, when it happens to Šubic or anyone else, the law does say that it is possible to carry out certain proceedings on the way to court. Yeah, what good is it if you can't do it if he quits your job and becomes a lawyer the next day? It's a dead letter on paper. The next day, he's a lawyer. And if the next day is a lawyer, he can laugh in a mustache at the entire justice system, with the minister in charge or this government or the previous one, any. We do not have effective mechanisms to prevent this. And what do we want? Yeah, that's all we wrote. We wrote that three years can't be lawyers. Nothing else. We are therefore upgrading a system that is not effective. But that's not acceptable because the opposition is suggesting it. You know, Dr. Sturm's mention, and Dr. Sturm's quote, and I don't know what else, a whole bunch of things, of course, Dr. Sturm asked the opposition last year, what's going to happen now, because the president of the court became a lawyer. [[...]] Of course she was asking him, normal. What did he say? What he said. And that's the truth. Of course, it has the right under existing legislation to become a lawyer. What, though, could Dr. Sturm do against the president of the court who resigned and became a member of a prominent law firm the next day? Nothing. And he answered you in the National Assembly, in writing or orally, I don't know. He couldn't answer the other one because that's what the law says. And we want to change this law so that the president of the court in Koper does not repeat himself and becomes a lawyer tomorrow. It'll be more likely, I suppose. It's Dr. Storm's abuse, and that's the opposite of evidence. This is essentially proof that I am right in the opposition when we claim that there is a need to limit the transition between lawyers. Look, you're talking about Cyprus. Look, for God's sakes, what can I say? The situation is relatively clear. Of course, because you read what you want to read. But you have to read everything about it. If you read the laws, you'll only find Cyprus. Yeah, okay. But I said something else in my opening statement. I was quoting another act, Sweden and Germany. I cited the statute of the Swedish Bar Association, which is adopted by the Government, not the Bar. That's why it says it in there. If he was a lawyer like us, he wouldn't be. But it says in there that judges and prosecutors can't become lawyers. Thus, through the statute of the Bar, the Government has accepted this and has banned Swedish judges and prosecutors from becoming a lawyer on an effective system. Of course, you claim that Swedish legislation does not prohibit it. You're right, because you have to read this statute too, and you'll see that the Swedish prosecutor and the judge can't become a lawyer. Germany has a similar case: an application for entry between lawyers must be rejected by the judge and the prosecutor. But not for a year, as it is in Cyprus, but for three years, as we suggest, it must be rejected forever. And we don't want to know that. To conclude this part of my performance, I stress this part of my performance, to say the following. Look, I'm afraid of what Mr. Jelinčič said before. He was talking about another matter, about the law, and so on, coming into the mediation. I'm afraid that's true, but that's not going to be the law, but we do know how the law now specifies that this is a matter for a minister and a proposal for a bar. Of course it's a painful thing. But when that happens, ladies and gentlemen, know that I will say it if that happens. Because I myself have heard what Mr. Jelinčič said. There's something else that needs to be said on this matter. I'm deeply confident and I'm sorry to have to tell you this at the empty hall, at least the magnetogram will probably be read by someone. The government and the ruling coalition take care of certain parts of this company. And one of the most important parts of this society is the obvious judiciary or the lawyers or the judicial system, however you wish. Lawyers, apparently, not at all. Not only did we give them "kadia court, kadia sues", you will persecute yourself in terms of disciplinary procedures, because you have a majority in both, first and second stages. That's what you gave them in May this year. At the same time, you gave them to set tariffs for themselves, in agreement with the Minister, to be more precise. We're waiting for the Minister's decision. Instead of the legislation going in this direction, as we suggest. Do you know where the legislation should go? They would also be able to write something like that in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Don't think we can't write laws. Lawyers must be led in the direction, I stress, in the direction of several amendments to several laws, whereby lawyers will be better rewarded when clients are not brought to justice and at least rewarded when they are 5 or 10 years of age. It's the right way. And this is also the right way to shorten judicial backlogs. It would make sense to me that things are going this way. However, I regret to note that they are going in the wrong direction. To go in the direction of the privilege of this lobby. So much for the first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, then Minister, because I actually gave him my word earlier. Please, Mag. Radovan Žerjav, then Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the ten of us Members, I think I have counted well. In Slovenia it boils at all ends and places. The wall is sinking, the business is losing, Boss has canceled, there are serious problems in Gorenje, today we are hearing that in Hydra, and we are here almost all day, apologizing for the word, "we are fucking" and we are slandering each other about minor matters. What did we do at this 9th regular meeting of the National Assembly? Tuesday was a key topic of court salary. Yesterday was the most important thing is that we taxed the manager's wages. Today, or I don't know what the top theme is, it's probably gonna be a tax on motor vehicles. I ask you, I am actually asking myself, because we are not here, what we did at this session for the Slovenian economy. Nothing, we didn't do anything. The respected Government has not prepared anything for this meeting, so that we can help the Slovenian economy in one way or another. I'm so sorry. As far as this marriage is concerned. I was hoping it would be one of the first laws to get coalition support. According to my assessment, this is a necessary marriage, since we have witnessed quite a few such anomalies in the past year, which were not innocent, we must admit. I see this law as some kind of competitive clause in the field of justice, lawyers, in order to prevent corruption, customerism, not to say crime. In the case of an economy, of course, such things are normal, logical, no one wonders whether this is necessary or not. They're obviously not here. I believe that it is necessary to prevent the direct transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, since we have here in law an obvious gray fox. This is unacceptable, as in these particular cases this transition may be abused, as we have witnessed last year. I think we need to eliminate these anomalies. And the argument that only Cyprus has such an arrangement is not decisive to me and it doesn't matter at all. You know, unfortunately, we are still very deep in the Balkans, and sometimes we need a little more stringent legislation so that such a thing does not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Zala.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here today. First of all, Mr Gorenak said that it could happen that someone who was a judge or prosecutor yesterday becomes a lawyer today and is representing a party on the same matter. That can't happen. The Law of Lawyers, the one in force, expressly prohibits that. If that were to happen, then it would be a worse violation of the law's ethics and legal services than a lawyer could have lost his license for. So we have adequate safeguards, adequate guarantees in our regulations that this will not happen. The same is true of what was presented today as a German model. You're saying the Germans have a rule that someone can't be a lawyer if he's a judge or a prosecutor. We Slovenians have this rule, too. We have the same rule. As long as someone's a judge or a prosecutor, he can't be a lawyer at the same time. It's a German rule. The Slovenian Judicial Service Act also has the same prohibition. However, Germany, not Sweden, has no prohibition on transferring judges and prosecutors to the bar in such a way as to give up the judicial service, to resign the prosecution service and then to go to the lawyers. And there is no such prohibition, except, as has been said, in Cyprus, in one purely specific situation. Here we need to be careful not to create an entirely wrong, misleading belief. Anyone who speaks differently does not read the regulation in an corrective manner. The problem of this so-called competitive clause is, inter alia, a period of this ban. It is only the fact that three years of this prohibition should go by itself that it is a disproportionate measure, even if it is constitutionally permissible, that it is disproportionate because it is simply too long a period. In particular, this measure is very dangerous because it would lead to a significantly lower interest in the judicial profession between graduate lawyers with a legal examination. When someone at the beginning of his career decides where he is going to go, of course, he also makes the assumption that later on in life he may change his career path. But if today you know that if you go to court once, that you're practically closing down all other paths, then of course you won't decide what to do with the trial. And we today have a serious problem in Slovenia, which is reflected in the relatively small interest of lawyers in the judicial profession. The reasons are different. Not only a relatively poor salary, especially a very low reputation of the judiciary in general, a low level of public confidence in the work of the courts, a high burden on the courts and more. And in these circumstances, this measure would definitely have acted unstimulatingly, further impoverishing the human resources base for future judges. That is why this is a very dangerous measure, in the situations in which our justice is at present. It is not only constitutional concerns, therefore, but also strong substantive concerns against this proposed solution. Cases have been mentioned where the applicant builds on his idea that this is necessary. We could call this law "lex penko", because this case is the one that was already the basis or the reason for a similar experiment that didn't come out later. However, we cannot regulate the laws that apply in general, any individual excess. Individual excesses happen to us in all sub-systems of the country, which is why we do not adopt another law every day. But no one can say that there is a mass violation of the rules of service, either judicial, prosecutorial, or ethical. That's certainly not what this is about. And these individual excesses must be sanctioned. If it is a situation where a judge or a prosecutor still in office violates his own rules of service, then it is on the disciplinary authorities of the court and the prosecution to act swiftly to investigate the case and also to sanction him if they find that it was a violation. But if it's a situation where a person like that wants to join a lawyer, then he's at the Bar to make this selection. This question of whether the Bar is strict enough here may be a relevant issue. In some cases, it does not appear to have been. However, we need to know that lawyering is a free profession under our constitution, which is carried out as a private activity, and that the state does not have unlimited possibilities for regulatory regulation. The incentive to strengthen these self-regulatory mechanisms would certainly be in place, not coerced. As a result, the Government also rejects such a measure. We have a system that prevents abuse, and on the other hand we have a system that has a long tradition of transition from the bar to the judiciary and the prosecution or back, although it is not a major transition. Look at the following information. During the period 2004 to 2009, i.e. during a five-year period, 439 new lawyers were entered in the lawyers' directory. Of these, 439 were only 29 of those who came from the judiciary or from the prosecution in five years. So we're talking about an extremely small proportion of judges and prosecutors who are going to the bar. How is it the other way around? During the same period, during this five-year period, 17 lawyers were brought before the judges. So it's even less. It seems that there are not so many of these transitions in our country, rather than instilling incentives for transition. So we're working some storm in a glass of water. But do you know what happened when you introduced this law into the legislative procedure? The number of judges and prosecutors’ applications to become lawyers has increased dramatically at the Bar. Be careful. Since some are thinking, perhaps you would have decided, not today, perhaps in a year, but if they would stop me, I would rather do so now and thus ensure that the law does not apply to this case. That's what you've done with this law. We need to be careful here, we need to use sound measures. If there is a problem with the appearance of ethical misconduct, professional ethics, then the authorities involved in this ethics should solve this problem. He can't be a legislator. The government therefore does not support this arrangement. And now there is something else about the issues that have been linked to the judges and government's actions in this area, because this should somehow be linked to lawyers. It was said that there were no measures at this session to provide an appropriate incentive in the economy. He was. That's exactly what you were looking at yesterday. It is the model of salaries for judicial officials that can in the long term guarantee better quality of the trial and even decision-making by judicial officials. And this is what our economy really needs. Our economy needs to protect business transactions with legal procedures that are fast and quality. These can only be provided by properly trained, motivated judicial officials. But we won't get them, and we won't get them if they're not paid as well. Things are therefore very related and should be seen in a broader concept, given that there has been a huge demagogy about raising these salaries, because the Government has been careful not to exceed the current mass for the funds of the judicial officials and will not exceed it even next year. And when you mentioned the problem of some family ties. Of course they do. Everywhere, in all sectors, you'll find them in all areas. Even in justice. The husband, the wife, not just the husband, the wife, the extramarital partners, but not just you, the ones who hide their relationships are in between, not even so few, and they may be even more problematic than the ones they know. But you have to look wider again. We're a very small country. We practically all know each other in justice. And also that we are such a small country is one of the specialities that even our Constitutional Court has taken into account. And do you know when it was taken into account? Just when it assessed the constitutionality of a competitive clause for former judges and prosecutors. We had years ago an arrangement where it was forbidden for a judge or a prosecutor to become a lawyer and that he opened an office in a place where a judge or a prosecutor had previously been. And the Constitutional Court said that this arrangement was unconstitutional. Among other things, it points out that such a ban cannot function in a small area such as Slovenia and that it is a completely inappropriate measure. And it didn't even deal with the question of whether it was even proportional and whether it was necessary because it found it inappropriate. You should not simplify and even have a picture before attempting to regulate a matter legally. I do not think it is right that the debate in this law, which is primarily focused on this competitive clause, would be burdened by all other problems that exist in the judiciary, including the legal tariff. By the way, Mr Gorenak mentioned that the Minister must take a decision on this. Yes, it is. I rejected the proposal of the Bar that made the proposal of the Bar since I had assessed that it was not appropriate. Don't worry, I, as Minister of Justice, will be careful to adopt solutions in favour of our citizens, both in the judiciary and in the prosecution, which will benefit everyone, the individual, from a small man, to, I will say, a large corporation, because we all need to ensure equal rights and fair trial. These, from the concept, and the experiments pulled out can do a lot of damage. I have been thinking about what kind of measure could be drawn closer to what the applicant is referring to in this proposal for a law. I can offer you the solution that we are preparing at the Ministry of Justice. This is about to be put into debate in a short time and, I hope, also in the legislative process, the law on specialised training of candidates for judges, prosecutors, lawyers and notaries. This will be a major change in our justice. From now on, unlike today, no one will be able to obtain a license or a lawyer's license, and not a permanent term in the judiciary and the prosecution until he has completed specialized training and a special specialized examination. What's particularly important here is that we do selection when we enter these professions. This selection is practically gone now. At least not in the way other European countries know him. With this selection, it will be very important what educational programmes will be for these candidates. The period of this specialized training will be a long time, I think, after the last version of the proposal of the law for two years. It will be very important that education programmes, training programmes adapted to the needs of the judiciary, the lawyer, the prosecution, the notary profession, and that these programmes will provide much more specific training in the field of ethics than today. This is the deficit of our justice for several years, which I have long been alerting myself to. Even before I wasn't Minister, I warned myself about it, and now I'm going to do it the same way. We've got reserves here. And these are ways to prevent in the future people coming into our system who do not deserve a mandate to perform these functions or jobs. These are system solutions. This is what the government will propose, and I hope that when we propose it, you will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers is a long-awaited amendment, which is necessary, and we also support it. Many judges, prosecutors, police officers, criminals have taken advantage of the legal option that allowed for a direct transition from the types I mentioned to lawyers, which has led to a violation of the principle of trust in duty, since this transition is incompatible with public confidence in their independence and impartiality. The legislator's task is to ensure a fair and impartial trial. This, however, can only be achieved by excluding all elements of doubt about the impartiality of the trial, followed by a proposal for amendments that will prevent a direct transition between the judge's lawyers and the prosecutor. The proposed limitation of interference in Article 49 of the Constitution, which speaks of freedom of work. At the same time, we are facing Article 23 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to an impartial court and fair trial for all citizens in the proceedings. The proposal is certainly on the ground, since restricting freedom of work for the protection of rights is a constitutionally permissible objective, since it protects the rights of others who exercise the constitutional right to judicial protection. I could not agree and I do not support the continued direct transition of these officials to the legal professions, because this is only what has been tolerated for too long and what some have been exploiting. From practice, I know when some criminals who worked on blood-delicts and in the drug-trafficking department locked up certain people, and later, when they switched to law enforcement, those same people who had been persecuted before, now that they were lawyers, that was also a specialty for them. It is no different with judges and prosecutors who in the eyes of people have raised some hope through privileged criminal proceedings, as they all know each other and have recently been coworkers. All of this makes it clear that this must be prevented if we are to ensure fair trial and treatment for all citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you very much. The discussions that have been held by the applicants and others so far in support of this law have not convinced me. I must say that, on the contrary, I am very disturbed by the extreme unwillingness to hear the opposite arguments, the extremely simplistic integration of things between myself, the one snake, the one anger, the one squirming and the reading that we are all who think otherwise against solving the problem of Mura, Gorenje, and the position of workers, and the fair trial. No, gentlemen, it's just too much. The arguments that this proposal of yours, which is interesting, you can look at my first folder I said, yes, to evaluate, but to say that it will solve the problem is simply not true. I don't know, I hope the minister, even though I don't know if any minister has had an answer so far, why there has been such an erosion in the judiciary over the past 15 years. Some claimed that because of organizational changes, they had only been transferring files for six months because the jurisdiction of the courts had changed. Some argue that because of a bunch of regulations that we adopted and were foolish, they caused new disputes. Some argue that because they have grown stronger, in a good sense, human rights and their protection, and today you cannot be condemned just by having the means to be protected. Some argue that because we have begun to justify ourselves very often, not in criminal terms, but in civil and other terms, because money and goods have become much more valuable to us than before. But to solve the problem of all of this by banning a three-year transition from a judicial and prosecutorial profession to a lawyer is simply not possible. Look, you told me I was being unfair to the former minister. I only allowed myself to quote what he said. Let us say that at the time the position of the official government was significantly different, with the strong words that my friend and colleague Dr. Sturm used. I would like to say this, because we were four and a half years of college, we both graduated very soon. He simply said to repeat the already well-known position that it was nothing unusual. This has already happened, this act cannot be seen as an irregularity, there are many cases known, the minister said today that there are very many, but there have been some cases where lawyers leave their own species and become judges or notaries or work in public authorities. It is a normal fluctuation that is characteristic and completely identical abroad. And last but not least, it's the individual decision of each lawyer individually. So he wasn't referring to marriage. He was referring to it as normal behavior. And he did not think by any means that this would reduce confidence in justice so that, like today's debate, this would mean the possibility of customerism, corruption, crime. These are too difficult words, dear gentlemen, in this way a proposal that has a good idea because it tries to solve problems that are extremely powerful in the judiciary and unfortunately no one has managed to solve anything very successfully so far, what a step has been taken and what a success it has not been. But not with demagogia that kind of trouble trying to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u337	This is another type of law that tries to prove that in some area everything is wrong and that certain things need to be changed urgently. Although, as has already been said today, it can be isolated cases, cases that are different, deviate, and call for questions as to whether they are good intentions or perhaps speculations. But after we had reviewed it before the recent Law on Lawyery in the National Assembly, there was clearly a need for a change to take place immediately and something would be arranged in a different way than the then majority thought it was right and also confirmed by all the professional and other explanations that go with it. I object to this law. Something that has not yet been established, something that has barely lived well, the law cannot be dealt with in such a way as every month, when someone, or the Government or Members, proposes some law and Parliament adopts it, and then the other party, after a while, because it is not satisfied with a decision, simply wants to change it. I believe that there is some embarrassment when someone personally appears in the transition from one sphere to another of legal professions, whether it goes from the lawyer's office to the judiciary, the prosecution, the public service or vice versa, but it gives me the feeling that it is a case that may have been unacceptable, then the reason for the general discussion to prove that everything is wrong in some area. I do not believe this, so I will not support the fact that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration and that then again and again we listen to some things. I believe that it is precisely in the field of justice and in this part of justice, because, after all, I believe that it is not by chance that the judges have been given a permanent mandate, because there are probably reasons for this, as well as I believe that lawyers, notaries and everything else must be regulated in their laws by some logic, which is internal to say so, and it has independence from other actions that would have been again, either one case or two, or more, which have encouraged the need to do so also in order to re-propose a change of law. However, I fear that this is the same as in the previous law, when it has been tried to show that everything is wrong in Slovenia, that anti-corruption mechanisms do not work, that virtually nothing works in democratic and legal countries is synonymous and necessary. It is therefore necessary to amend the law, so it is necessary to tell the public that if you accept exactly this, but everything will be different, everything will be better, everything will be fine. I will not support the law or vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is a suitable basis for further proceedings. However, I think it will be tomorrow, not today, because it would be difficult for the applicants to guarantee at least 10 votes that this law would be adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u338	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Would you like to discuss Mr. Tanko? It's your turn. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u339	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that in this term, we are hearing about the need to do things comprehensively, thoughtfully. What we are proposing, the Government is studying and so on, and as in one of the previous opinions, the Government will examine and assess options and propose changes and so on in those frameworks. I think that the approach taken by this coalition is not generally appropriate for all the proposals put into the legislative process to be assessed in this way. He's not fit. If anyone wants to propose any solution, the solution will be prepared and proposed, with some thought and some goal. And what the Minister said earlier, I would say, implicitly, means that those who propose solutions in this mandate are in fact cruelly offended by everything free of charge. She says it well, but she's a cruel insult. We have drawn up this bill and proposed it with thought, including on the basis of the practice and experience that has in some cases proved to be bad. I think that anyone from the executive branch of power is thus trying to discredit the proposal that we are preparing in the SDS and perhaps in other opposition parties is not worthy of the National Assembly. We are not some Members of a parliamentary group or individuals who would suggest something like that just to annoy the coalition in the National Assembly or that country. We have proposed a solution that meets all the conditions and that solves one of the problems that arises in the Slovenian judiciary. And that's what we've been proposing in terms of ionism and thought. The other thing the minister said in his exposé is that we can't handle the law of individual excess. Unfortunately, I must draw attention here to the bill proposed by the coalition Members, in this case the law on local self-government, which explicitly regulates the resolution of individual excesses - the case of Grosuplje. And the government gave a positive opinion on this law and even proposed amendments. I don't think it's worthy of a government representative to tell us that we've drawn up a law that we're trying to solve each other's excesses, but at the same time a coalition supported by an appropriate government opinion and with the proposals of the amendments the government is solving in exactly the same way at this meeting of the National Assembly. We'll deal with it tomorrow. Even those who represent the colors of the party that is always right because it has enough votes, and even if you have enough votes, it is right to be aware of the weight of your words, as well as of the acts, as well as the acts that you propose to the National Assembly. Don't tell us anything to save the excess, and you're proposing exactly that solution at this meeting of the National Assembly that will deal with it tomorrow. The following matter stated by the Minister when he said that it was necessary to be careful that measures should be proposed with due consideration. Now I ask whether this was the thought- provoking proposal of the CAP, the Criminal Procedure Act that we have dealt with, I think, may be the month. Against this law was the whole judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. All found that in the event of a juvenile trial there is no legal hole, there is no void, so that the proceedings can be followed. Despite all these warnings, the minister proposed a law that supposedly solves a matter that is not. Has this process of amending the CAP been considered? I'm asking if he was being thought through. If the Supreme Court finds that there is no void, if the Supreme Court finds that there is no void, and the Constitutional Court has also found in its decision that there is no void. However, the Minister insisted, even before the deadline, only so that the decision of the Constitutional Court came a little later. In this case, I think it is necessary to be aware of the weight of the words spoken by the Ministry's representative, the Minister of Justice. I also ask whether the measure has been considered as a declaration that the rules for bankruptcy managers will be amended to restrict these matters. Was this a deliberate measure? We have heard, and the data also holds that it has been determined, I think in the individual months, there are about 100,000 Euro prizes for bankruptcy managers. In this short time after this statement, seven working days, and 2 million euros. Was this a thought - provoking act that warned everyone that something was being prepared that would rationalize the matter and make it acceptable? No, no, no. In that short time, 24 times more awards were set for bankruptcy managers, such as the long-standing practice of the courts. Is that a deliberate measure? I don't think so. It is likely that such deliberate measures would also be found in these cases in the field of justice, as well as in some other areas, including some other laws proposed by the Government in the legislative procedure. I estimate that these deliberate measures are few, but they are measures that are horrifying and triggering the plasma. And what happened to the payout or the award-fixing of the bankruptcy managers, that statement was triggered by the beach. I would like to know whether the statement, say, by the end of last year when the sale of State bonds was justified, whether it brought something to the price of the bond or whether some of this bond price was taken by the Government or the bank. It would probably make sense to assess this when we are representatives of the government coalition or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in these deliberate actions. Today, the Minister has made another statement that no additional funds will be needed for this pay reform of the judiciary. The explanation of the law states that EUR 5.8 million will have to be added, not this year, but next year. That is what it says: EUR 5.8 million will have to be added. I wonder if that's true. And I think we need to be a little careful about these things. However, when we are competitive clauses on these issues, even between companies, this competitive clause is not unusual between business operators. It's actually a normal solution. My colleague Gorenak said earlier that it is even more difficult to move police officers among security guards, four years. Is it a proportionate measure or a proportionate solution if I now return to the words of the Minister? Is this the right solution for someone who has a high-school police school and can't then be among the security guards? Four years. I guess someone's really gonna answer. There's no one else here. I would like to know whether this proposal that we are making is proportionate to the transition between the different branches of authority which are in some way separated from each other in the proceedings. These are so-called lawyers, prosecutors and judges, three separate branches of the judiciary. Each person shall have certain matters in the investigation or trial proceedings. And I'm actually interested in a case, like when we sometimes expel a judge from a trial because he's supposed to be infected because he's familiar with some paperwork. In this case, when you say the prosecutor who's investigating someone passes between lawyers, and if he doesn't act directly as his agent, he can indirectly, through a partner or in this case, say, sepsis or not? In the case where a judge examines a judicial file, for someone in the proceedings, and during the proceedings becomes another status, is he infected or not? These are, in my opinion, relevant questions. In such cases, is that legal certainty still ensured for the parties to the proceedings? Is the security of a party or of an institution or State, on the other hand, provided that it is a participant in this case? I wonder. Those who are able in these areas to act and think in a more thoughtful and holistic manner, should probably give such answers. And there's another thing. Previously it was said that this three-year robbery, this three-year limitation, this three-year competitive clause is too long a robbery, a disproportionate measure. If this is the only problem with this law, then the Government may propose an amendment that will make this disproportionate measure proportionate. That's the least of your problems. If three years is too much, suggest two years, if two years is too much, suggest a year and a half. As I understand the debate, this is in fact a fundamental flaw in this law that this three-year period should be a disproportionate measure. I don't think it's a fundamental problem, because if it is, it can be arranged quickly. The fundamental problem is that the colors of the applicant are wrong, as they were in the Income Act, as they were in the Tax Procedure Act, as in the Public Finance Act, as they were in the package of measures and in all the other matters that we have proposed and have not been adopted in this mandate. The government shall examine, reflect and, on the basis of its reflection and examination, prepare new measures or measures or solutions. In just a year or two. This is a fundamental problem for all those we have opened up in this mandate in the National Assembly. A fundamental problem! The front of communication within the National Assembly between the parliamentary groups, the confrontation of arguments, including with the Government, is not really possible. Because you characterize us immediately, that our proposal is not considered, that it is not comprehensive, that it needs to be examined and, I would say, everything works on this fundamental password. Look at the files he's got on the orderly, respected minister. Check them out. All the opinions you have adopted or views on the proposals we have tabled in the legislative process in any field. It's a general clause, a pattern, a pattern record. I doubt that, after the elections, we have so fallen down on our thinking and integrity that not one of the proposals we have proposed has been able to meet the criteria of the ruling coalition. I doubt it. It's impossible. That's impossible. But that's what's going on. We have now come at a time when all these proposals, which anyone proposes and are not coalition or government, must be rejected. Whether they bring something good or not. As was the case with the solution to pay country-by-country liabilities with one bill. These include lawyers, not just S.P.I.s, and I don't know who, but also lawyers. Lawyers also have to fill out nine positions. And unfortunately, I must say that we are in a situation where, despite the overall decline of these proposals, everyone has been rejected, there is no solution. We do not yet have many fundamental solutions, but we do have some that we can consider disproportionate. What you have mentioned, the honourable Minister, the increase in the salary level of judges, I estimate that the measure is disproportionate to the other officials who do not have a permanent mandate, and this is a large majority, the judges have a permanent mandate, a life-long function, once they have a status, disproportionate to the situation in which we are, because the situation is such that such an enormous leap in the salary hierarchy is not a proportionate measure to remedy the constitutional decision, should it be remedied if such a decision is a Constitutional Court decision, but the solution you have proposed and adopted is disproportionate because it is such a situation. And I could list a lot more. Above all, I would expect that, even if we do not have a signed partnership, if we do not have formal cooperation, because the government coalition does not want this, I would expect us to discuss solutions in a different way, not just because the proposal is not considered. Of course he's thoughtful. A number of proposals have also been covered by appropriate solutions proposed by institutions, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Their concrete proposal is not appropriate. One hundred thousand craftsmen are standing behind and the measures are not appropriate. We have proposed these in this mandate from this package seven, and none was appropriate. It is no longer surprising that, in other areas, the Government considers the measures proposed to be inappropriate. But we would expect that, in fact, on the basis of the arguments, the findings of the situation, the excesses that have taken place, they would also adopt solutions that would remedy these matters. Certainly, when some judges or prosecutors crossed between lawyers, they did not bring honor to the court. They didn't bring it, neither did they bring it to the lawyers. They neither give nor strengthen confidence in the solutions to be adopted, even in the judgments to be adopted. Sorry, that's right. And I don't think it would be wrong if such things, based on such findings or events that have occurred, also suggested some solutions that would continue to regulate the situation. As for this statement that the number of those who deposited their role at the Bar Association has increased significantly during this time, there is nothing unusual. That's probably the solution you have in some other areas, these security exits. But first of all, you might find that someone who has a permanent mandate and is depositing in the Bar that he may once be a lawyer is probably not the judge he would say is a judge of the heart. He probably has a problem with himself, efficiency and so on. But these are other stories, I'm sorry. I suggest, however, that in the future proposals that will come from our side for your area, and also the Government consider a somewhat more meaningful, more comprehensive, even more thoughtful. Not only should we ask for thoughtfulness, but the Government could also deal with these matters more carefully and also make more informed decisions, it would not harm that Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u340	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u341	Thank you very much. It was said what the underlying problem was. And it was said that the problem was color, political color. The fundamental problem is elsewhere. The fundamental problem is that you too often propose anti-constitutional solutions. That's one. And secondly, that you too often refuse to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is a fundamental problem and we have inherited this fundamental problem. This government has inherited it from the former government in which you were a ruling coalition. And we had to deal with this fundamental problem for nine months, until yesterday we had to deal with a sentence worth saying. I therefore reject this instigation that the fundamental problem is political color. No, the fundamental problem is the lack of understanding of the rule of law where the political authority, everyone, must respect those decisions or, in particular, those decisions that do not correspond to it. That's the point of democracy. You didn't do it, I'm sorry. The Constitutional Court had to intervene twice in two years. And this fundamental problem has been solved by us, unlike you. The fundamental problem is that we have a serious problem with the Law on Lawyering, among other things, since this government has been operating since you wanted to have a referendum that was unconstitutional, as the Constitutional Court found. That's a fundamental problem. And I respect the opinion of those who feel that regulating court salaries at this time is problematic. I agree. They should have been fixed a long time ago. In the previous term, they should be regulated, and economic conditions were such that this would be much easier to do than they are today. But we've chewed through this sour apple, even though maybe now someone's got that bite stuck in their throats. I don't think anybody's being reckless. Oh, no. But you must understand that, because I am a justice minister, I must be particularly concerned that the solutions adopted by the National Assembly are not inconsistent with the Constitution. And if you don't believe me, if you don't trust the Government, trust in the judgement of your own Legal and Legal Service, which has explained to you nicely on the four sides why this law you're proposing is inconsistent with the Constitution. I'm not gonna read this because I know you've read it. And for the general public, this may now be underestimating, for it is also possible to look at this opinion. But the government cannot support unconstitutional solutions. It's so simple. And that's what I explained at the beginning when I presented the government's opinion. When there is a regulation in this House on the agenda that is consistent with the Constitution, it will surely come across a substantial increase in affection, including for the Government. I'm sure of it. But that's not the law. When you mention the question of soundness of mind when adopting the CAP, I need to correct you first. It wasn't about the CAP, it was about the KZ, it was about the Penal Code. It is not true what was said to be the whole court against this change. It was the other way around. The whole judiciary was divided into interpretation and understanding of those provisions of the Penal Code relating to minors. And that is why the Government has made a change because it has threatened the risk that in the end the interpretation could prevail, which would essentially mean that, for the first time, the State must pay enormous damages to all minors who have been unduly processed, secondly, that this country does not have any criminal provisions for offences committed by minors. That was a threat. Not because this government would make it up, or because the Ministry. No, no. That's how the courts ruled, that's what the problem was. Even later, when the Supreme Court found that there was a serious problem when the judiciary only initiated a procedure to obtain a principled legal opinion, the court which proposed this based its proposal on an interpretation which was completely different from that adopted by the Supreme Court. This is just proof of how right the government was that it acted quickly out of caution. We were finally satisfied with the Supreme Court's decision and the Constitutional Court's decision. In this way, this country has saved quite a lot of money, if not another. But imagine that would never happen. And in court judgements, where it is such a difficult matter as this, where even the Constitutional Court had to solve the applicable KZ with methods of interpretation, which is highly unusual in international case law, by means of methods of linguistic interpretation, purposeful and I do not know which other, systematic. This was convincing enough to prove why legislative regulation was needed. And that was the government's deliberate decision. When you mentioned the rules on bankruptcy managers and recklessness regarding the forecasting of this issue. But was it considered that, at the time of the previous coalition, under the previous minister, you issued a rule without restriction? But that was thoughtful? We didn't do anything but correct the big mistake of the previous minister. Nothing but that. And given that this matter appeared in the media, it was clear that the Government must have a position on this issue. And she had it, and she told it. The second question is, and we have already discussed this in the National Assembly, and we are likely to see why the courts have issued so many decisions in such a short time that they have recognised the compensation even after the existing regulation which did not have a limit. That's another question. When you said that 5.8 million euros were foreseen in the explanation of judicial legislation. Yes, but in the same breath it is also said that this spending will not occur because they will be compensated by a reduction in the number of judges. 116 judges will be fewer by the end of next year, which means EUR 5.8 million. Today, we have created 43 courts of savings. It's not some fairy-tale promise, it's reality. This will be realized. And without any particular problems, it will be realized, given the magnitude of the fluctuation in justice. If the police have a competitive clause and if this is a four-year period, I do not know the specific provisions, every policeman has a legal interest here to challenge such regulation before the Constitutional Court. But apparently they're not even looking for solutions in this direction. When you said why or whether the judge was infected, if he went to law school. He's infected if he takes over the case where the judge was before him. He's infected. And in this case, he can't be a lawyer, he can't take the stand. And the law is clear on this, in fact, we no longer have anything to discuss here and there are no problems in practice as well. The three-year limitation in this competitive clause that you are proposing, which I have assessed to be disproportionate, is only one aspect of the problem. He's not the only one far away. I have spoken extensively about them in the previous debate, and I have only taken one passage from why this arrangement is not in accordance with the Constitution. And that's one of the reasons. In this case, the principle of proportionality must be applied to the assessment of whether it is a constitutional or non-constitutional arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u342	Mr. Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I regret to note that we have also been abandoned by the professional colleagues of the largest party and that the Members have long since left us. I was going to answer Mr. Potsch, who was talking about some hiccups and so on, but I have several reasons to argue with you, Mr. Minister. Look, whatever you've been talking about in public and here, I've already noticed this in public, and here today you've also said publicly that Sturm's rule is to blame for not restricting the prizes. Yeah, we got him again. And that ugly storm! There's more evidence of how you plan on working with the former minister. I'm telling you again, I don't want your successor to treat you like this. Storm rule has a limit. But you know he doesn't have the amount, but he does have the percentage. And so that doesn't hold what you're saying. The storm rule is very clear. At the time of Minister Sturm, 130 000 euros were paid in 40 days. But the minister's task is, therefore, yours since the government's appearance to monitor the situation. He can look at the APIS or anything else. So you've had the opportunity to change Dr. Storm's rules since 22. 11 last year until 1. Seven this year, and you didn't. Why are you criticizing Storm now? There's no reason. So there's no reason in Dr. Storm, but there's more to it than 22. You didn't do it until 1 July. And it makes absolutely no sense to speak now to Dr. Storm, who has been no longer a minister for ten months. The government's rights. It's a clear story. That was also your client's password. But the law must rule for all the people in this country. And when that happens, we can discuss it further. Of course, you have saved this ugly legacy of the government of Janez Janša: the wages of the courts. That way you could have suggested it to me when you said, no matter what the economic situation, here you have gentlemen, 47 pay grade. 28% higher salary for judges of beginners. So it wasn't an acid apple at all. I believe it was a fruit bowl of strawberries, with cream. The sour apple started in Velenj, continued in Mursko Sobota and that sour apple will sour the apple of the government and all the ministers. Definitely. It can't be different if we privilege one layer to the other. Of course, you can say that the situation was unconstitutional. Of course you can say. You're right. That's what the Constitutional Court said. That's what five judges said. In the referendum, she said that, and there, unanimously, that we would be right, right? Of course they said so. But they said constitutional judges, who are judges, who are professional colleagues, who, in my opinion, could have been expelled, but they didn't. Come in. You say you accept all the rules that we will give, that will be good, that will be smart, that will have the support of the Legal Service and so on. I mean, the vast majority of them had them, but you didn't take anything. Actually, you didn't take anything. I have a feeling that you have a pattern that says, "We are preparing a system law that will regulate this area, so the law of the opposition or the SDS is not suitable for further consideration." It's a pattern. This same sentence, which I have just spoken, I have heard in the previous term from your side, the coalition Members, and was delivered to Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government. And after that he called me because I was in charge of working with the National Assembly, and he said, "Look, accept smart things." And don't tell me we didn't. Come in. This has never been the case before. Also, the Constitutional Court, speaking of which, when you say, constitutionally, yes, the anti-constitutional situation was, we're talking about salaries, and we had to fix it. You know, the stories in the Constitutional Court are also such that they take "copypaste" your letter, say that May 5th of this year, where they explain why it is unconstitutional if it was a referendum. "Copypaste", also some kind of press error from your letter. This is therefore the responsible work of the judges. Yeah, okay. Not for me. Lawyer's a free profession, and so on, you say. Okay. And no one said why we should limit it to the police. Do you think the police decide freely? Of course you'll say that lawyers are constitutional or I know what category. However, police officers are also needed, and the National Assembly has determined that they must not become detectives for four years and so on. Yeah, that's just it. We take care of one part, but we don't take care of the other. And part two of the constitution, the laws, the constitution, and I don't know what it's all about. Nothing for other professions. Of course, I can agree with you to be the best self-regulation. That's a great story. An ideal state, like communism, when we all contribute, how we can get as much as we need. Self-regulatory doesn't work. It's not working! Let's face it, it's not working. And it doesn't work in law school either. The number you've given, 439 lawyers, and of those 29 judges in the last ten years, if I understand you correctly, it's a terrible, 10% transition. 29 plus 17 is 40 and that's it, but 439 is new lawyers, so that's 10%. So this is a terrible danger. It is therefore a great danger that we will have a situation in which no fundamental right to that fair trial will be guaranteed. I hope we've at least caused some of the judges to play the role of being a lawyer with this law. Well, then it'll be easier to solve the question of wages, and then maybe you won't need that $5.8 million. Otherwise, these numbers are such a relative matter. If I was naive, I'd say, yeah, okay, the minister said the number, that's the number he's holding. But you also told me in the spring some other numbers that talked about lawyers, how many of them were written out of those lists for representation by official duty and so on. Later official information on the question of the Member State or elsewhere, which you then said, was quite different. And in fact, it turned out that there are no copies of these and that there is pressure on the National Assembly to adopt a law that will give it all back to the lawyers as soon as possible. But when we talk about cops, that's what we have to say. Look, Slovenia has now, I don't know how many, about 400, 500 police officers who are employed for a certain period of time. Why? During the execution of tasks at the Schengen border. But they're cops. And these people, when they lose their jobs in 3, 4 years, because they're gonna run out of this contract for a while, they were cops. They'll be covered by this marriage. Where is their right to work? I would really like to know where their constitutional right to free choice of work is, to freedom of work or to what you said. Yeah, she's not! The law took that right from them. However, I hope that they will take advantage of what you said and complain in the Constitutional Court, which may decide that they are wrong. I don't know what we'd decide. Surely you have heard from our kind, particularly from Members who deal more with the economy and finance than I do, that the best judiciary is the one that is effective and that the economy needs it. It's a great story, but it's not like that. The economy has been taking Slovenia 17 years, 19 years since its independence, and the judiciary has been worse since 1995. Look at one more thing. I'm extremely glad you're thinking about the ethics of training and so on. Here in the police, training has been shown, say, in the field of ethics, and so on and very good stuff. But to conclude, that's all. I turned down a motion from the bar. I'm so glad you turned him down. Do you remember, Minister, what Mr Kozinc said on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice when we discussed the law? He said, "No, we're not going to propose an increase in tariffs." Look what happened. Four months passed, of which there was one month's leave, he had already brought you to the table of the new legal rate, which, at least according to my information, those great legal tariffs, for economic disputes and so on, was lower so that I could say how low, but this is so for companies and the lower ones, so at least it circulates in the public eye, he raised. That's what he suggested. And it looks like we're going to hit the kid on the head again, and the man who needs legal tariffs, and I'm asking you not to do what he's doing in public, if you're going to sign it when you have to sign a change of legal tariff as a result of the Mediation Act. I hope it's public talk, but that's how I was informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u344	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. And this concludes the debate. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u345	I thank the proposers for allowing us to talk in a calm tone in the group about such an important proposal. But it is obvious that such a way of discussing the law is not the most appropriate basis and I suggest that we look, however, at the leadership of the National Assembly, and above all at the College, at how this time is planned for this debate, because if there is an hour of forty at the scheduled time, something is wrong either with predictions or anything. And at other points, not just these. It was not difficult for me to endure and would continue, but it seems to me that for the work of the five of us who are here, and so much time at our disposal, it really does not make sense for us to apply for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u346	Thank you very much. That was your procedural proposal. But I have to say for myself, this last half hour has been quite pleasant. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Friday, 25 September, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good night.
