ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Mr Štefan Klinc, Member of the National Assembly, died during the period 1996-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. Thank you very much. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Alexander Zorn, Dr. Peter Verlič, mag. Stefan Tessel, Miran Jerič, Happy Friend, Breda Pecan, mag. Anton Rop, mag. Andrea Richter, Anton Kampush until 5 p.m. and Janja Klasinc. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 1 September 2009. I have not received a proposal to withdraw any of the items or to extend the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th extraordinary session has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTION ON SUPPORT OF THE Resolution OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF 2. April 2009 on the European will and totalitarianism. The motion for a resolution was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, France Tsukati, for a further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Every nation has gone through difficult historical trials and many horrors of war desolation. But as if even the saddest experiences cannot convince us that the worst suffering is what people are doing to themselves. Europe has experienced the worst moral disaster in its history in the last century. It was not only the fierce wars but also the total destruction of human dignity. It was an industry of death, carefully planned and organized mass torture, exasperation and killing of civilians, women and children. Wild totalitarians have finally shown what they can do if no one stops them, disables them, and condemns them. This time, however, Europe seems to have learned something from the horrors of the previous century. In addition to resolutions on the conviction of totalitarian crimes, on 2 April this year, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, supported by 89% of all European Members present in the vote. This resolution builds on the general principle of respect for human rights and the fact that, in terms of the victims, it does not matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for any reason. In doing so, it stresses that European integration has even begun in response to the suffering caused by the two world wars, the Nazi tyranny with the Holocaust and the undemocratic communist regimes. At the same time, it notes that Europe will not be united unless it recognises Nazism, Stalinism and Fascist and Communist regimes, as common heritage, and therefore calls for the proclamation on 23 August of a pan-European day of remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. For the European Union is based on respect for human rights and mutual trust, which is not possible without a clear condemnation of all totalitarian regimes that have so severely destroyed and distributed Europe in the previous century. Of course, we cannot compare Nazism, Fascism and Communism, nor communism in one country with communism in another or Mussolini Fascism with Frank's fascism. However, all these regimes are characterized by the fact that one person or one monopolistic party adopts full authority and does not allow party pluralism. At the same time, it controls or controls all areas of social life as well as private life. The political police and the judiciary are radically persecuting a class enemy, cultivating a cult of personality and demanding absolute obedience, including at the intellectual level, which is why they are primarily pursuing critical and mentally influential intellectuals and divide citizens into a privileged and oppressed layer, into a layer serving the regime and the opposition layer designated by the regime as enemies of the people or the like. The establishment of totalitarianism is usually bloody, as it is usually accompanied by the slaughter of political opponents. Each totalitarianism needs support, at least in the work of the population and at least some apparent tolerance in the majority. Tolerance is achieved primarily by the intimidation and causation of the trustees and, above all, by the granting of different privileges. Every totalitarianism also needs an ideology, a kind of religion that allows all means to achieve the utopian goal. The ultimate goal of this kind of religion is not man as an individual, not his rights and his well - being, but some utopian state, such as a pure race or an ideal society. Individuals, individual supervisory or political groups, can be sacrificed as a means of achieving this utopian goal. Only in this way was it possible to carry out these regimes and justify the Nazi killing of Jews, the Stalinist exasperation of Ukrainians, the Slovenian severe caves, and the Bosnian Srebrenica. Every totalitarianism, even if it still has such a bloody beginning, is eventually drained and calmed, such as the totalitarian regime kills, closes or moves all its opponents to concentration camps, collects all their assets, establishes an unpretentious system of innuendo, subordinates to the police, judiciary, culture, education and the entire media space, no longer needs radically bloody interventions and can become a totalitarian regime with the so-called human face. However, if he still manages to maintain all of his capital and economic power later on, even pre-party systems can be renamed and allowed. Various European peoples have different experiences, but this resolution proves that everyone in turn condemns the regime, which assumes all power and embraces these powers in all possible undemocratic ways, by restricting freedom and human rights. The most pronounced non-democratic regimes in Europe in the previous century are promised in terms of Nazism, fascism and communism. When the European Parliament mentions only these three totalitarianisms in its resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, it condemns all other totalitarianisms in any way. He condemns totalitarianism as a radically undemocratic regime, as an extremely inappropriate and harmful social arrangement. This conviction reflects a new post-war and post-totalitarian thinking, a reflection of Europe, which, after World War II and after the fall of the Berlin Wall, has become different, more democratic and more cohesive. The conviction of individual totalitarianism of its own country, however, reflects the moral strength and personality of individual policies. All respect for Mrs Merkel, who, at the beginning of World War II, strongly condemned German aggression and sincerely apologized again for all the victims of Nazism at the age of 70. How beneficial such an apology for fascist violence would have been if it had been expressed by the highest Italian policy. The condemnation of communism by the highest Slovenian policy would also work with medicine, although it would remain at the principle level and not go into the details of the Slovenian tragedy. The European resolution seeks to raise awareness of the ever-present dangers of totalitarian regimes between the European public and European policies. In doing so, he wants to prevent circumstances that would be favourable to the emergence of any new totalitarianism. The resolution does not go into analysis or condemnation of individual totalitarian crimes, but remains at the level of totalitarianism as totalitarianism. It comes from the fact that from the point of view of the victims, it doesn't matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for whatever reason. So it's not based on ideological or political assumptions, it's based primarily on human, human inclinations, from compassion to sacrifice. As the unfortunate Slovenian national separation continues to be fueled from ideologically different points of view to our half-lived history and from silence about certain crimes or even their denial or justification, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which includes both faithful and unfaithful, both the descendants of the domestic and partisan parents, we feel that our past history should also be based on what these events meant for individual people, individual victims and their families. Not an ideological assumption that shares us, but usually, a sincere human compassion that can only unite us in these matters, would also be an appropriate starting point for any further discussion on these sensitive topics. We therefore propose to discuss the resolution with patience and good faith, to express our support and to publish it in the Official Journal and, indirectly, as the highest representatives of the people, to condemn all political regimes based on denial of personal freedom and the beating of fundamental human rights. Since Slovenia is one rare, if not the only, European country that has experienced the hell of all three totalitarian regimes, both fascism and Nazism, as well as communism, we propose that on August 23rd it also becomes Slovenia's Day of Remembrance to the Slovenian victims of all the totalitarian regimes of the previous century. If the European resolution notes that misinterpretation of history can promote exclusion policies and thus lead to hatred and racism, and that Europe will not be united if it does not engage in fair and in-depth discussions on totalitarian crimes in the previous century, and that there is no reconciliation without truth and memory, then Slovenia can be said that something important must be changed in the heads and in the hearts of politicians if Slovenia also wants to take the path of internal recovery. If we cannot be united by an impartial memory of the suffering of our nation, a memory that is marked by compassion for all Slovenian victims, regardless of who or what regime has caused them, if we cannot therefore express support for the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, then we are far from united Europe, but also from the united Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. On 2 April 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice reviewed the resolution on support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism on several occasions, at its 6th meeting, on 30 June 2009, at its 1st July 2009, at its 15th emergency meeting, on 7 July 2009, and finally at its 18th emergency meeting, on 2 September 2009. The resolution was submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. Members and Members had several documents. For the first time by motion for a resolution of 15 May 2009, by the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements of 28 May 2009, by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the letter of 6 July 2009, the request of the Group of Members and Members to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the research task commissioned by the Coalition, addressed to the European Parliament's resolution in national parliaments, of 31 August 2009 and finally by the letter of the Forum for Goriška of 1 September 2009. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposaler, Mr Cukjat, said that the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism addressed the issue of all 20th century totalitarianism, which had caused so many divisions, hatred, pain and horrors in Europe. Totalitarianism in Europe is not only Italian fascism, German Nazism, but also communism. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave an opinion below. The substance of his comment is that the title of the document should be changed to a declaration. He also said that similar documents have already been considered in this House. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Škrlec, presented the opinion of the Government, in which he stressed that the proposed method of acceptance or validation of this document was not appropriate and was not relevant, so the State Assembly should only be informed of this document. The representative of the Council of State informed the Committee that the competent commission of the Council of State supported the document. However, the representative of the National Reconciliation Centre, Andreja Valič, said that the Study Centre or she herself was assessing that the European Parliament resolution as such would be a major improvement in the treatment of totalitarianism, so its adoption in the National Assembly would make an important contribution or communication in both Slovenia and the European Union. All three discussions were relatively long, relatively contradictory. The opposition Members supported the adoption of a resolution with certain amendments, which were tabled on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and the coalition Members strongly opposed it. The result of the Committee's work is as follows: the Committee has adopted the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapters 1 and 2 and to the title, but has not adopted the amendments of the SDS Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts and the title of the draft act and adopted them by the majority of the coalition. The document is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Government considered and adopted an opinion on the resolution on support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, a motion for a resolution submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the Assembly. The Government considers, in particular from a procedural point of view, that the validation of the European Parliament's Resolution by the National Assembly, as proposed, is inappropriate. The relationship between the European Parliament and the National Assembly is such that, according to the Government, the National Assembly represents the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, which forms and adopts the texts of its own resolutions. This is an independent relationship between the two parliaments, and therefore the approval or vote on the resolutions, especially in the case of resolutions in which the National Assembly did not directly participate, is not considered appropriate by the Government. On the other hand, the Government considers it appropriate to take note of the Resolution of the European Parliament of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the way that practice has been. Therefore, the Government proposes that the National Assembly here adhere to the so-called constitutional custom in taking note of the content of the resolutions and other international acts formally transmitted by the European Parliament to the legislative bodies of the Member States of the European Union. The Government believes that this can also be done with a declaration of familiarity with this resolution. It is necessary to take into account the legal and political relations between the two institutions and, as has already been said, the practice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia so far, both with regard to other European Parliament resolutions and with regard to resolutions of other international organisations and other institutions. As an example, the Government cites resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe concerning the conviction of crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, specifically Resolution 1096 of 1996 and Resolution 1481 of 2006, which, for example, was not specifically addressed by the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia condemns all forms of violence, any violation of human dignity and other fundamental human rights and freedoms. In the view of the Government, the most appropriate response to the said European Parliament resolution is a consistent respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights and respect of all victims of totalitarianism, authoritarian regimes or mass violations of human rights. In the opinion of the Government, if the National Assembly considered that a political definition of this issue was needed, it would be more appropriate for the Government to adopt a separate resolution, or more resolutions, which could deal substantively with the important issues of our past history, in particular with regard to the guidance given by the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia on the Law on Victims of War Violence, as well as in the field of the Law on the Correction of Crimes and taking due account of the content of that resolution. In the opinion of the Government, it might also be appropriate to take into account the scientific report entitled Key Characteristics of Slovenian Policy in the years 1929 to 1955 prepared by the Institute for Recent History for the National Assembly. At the same time, the Government considers that the completion of the state-level procedures for the adoption of the Law on Victims of War Violence and the War Cemetery Act could also be an appropriate way, a concrete and effective way of responding to the questions raised in the European Parliament resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Europe of the 20th century was unfortunately full of totalitarianism, autocratic regimes and ideologies that marked the fates of individual nations. Due to the principled democratic views and positions of the Group of Members, we truly condemn all kinds of totalitarianism, including communism. We have not had any doubts about this in our Group of Members. We are not heirs to anyone, to no-fiction and to no-fiction nor must we defend or relativize his role. Unlike many others who have found a critical word in the debates on totalitarianism, for example, condemning communism, Nazism and fascism, and especially the modern phenomena of totalitarian behavior, are silent or look away. In some countries of the European Union, the past is more alive than elsewhere, and ideological division is still present. The need, if I may say so, after the resolution on the condemnation of totalitarianism has arisen in the Eastern European countries - the Baltic States, Poland, the Czech Republic, which the European West has left behind since the end of World War II - and therefore Europe still has a bad conscience for them. However, these countries also have some problems with their attitude towards Nazism, and their motive, as some historians cautioned, was to stress the condemnation of Stalinism and communism in a resolution aimed at relativising their own cooperation with Nazism by apologizing for the fight and rebellion against communism. Some circles wanted to do something similar with us. Cooperation and cooperation with Nazism should be justified by Communist fears and the fight against them. In such cases, unfortunately, the resolution has been used for debilitating political objectives on a daily basis, and the fact is that there have been many differences, differences, long-term talks on the establishment of a resolution, even within the European Parliament, far more than some of us want to see. This also shows the weakness of such a unilateral, pan-European resolution. In some environments, uniform and uniform interpretations of the resolution are not self-evident, and such European resolutions are also intended to be used to achieve the objectives of internal policy, perhaps even to reinterpret historical facts. Unfortunately, we are also witnessing this time the resolution on totalitarianism in Slovenia. Finally, at this moment, we are the only one in the European Union to discuss the resolution in Parliament, and should be reconfirmed with a completely unproven necessity and necessary, as the proponents wish, in the national Parliament. Totalitarianism is worthy of condemnation, and in particular the victims of these totalitarianisms, with all victims, all totalitarianism, being equal. But there are differences, which we want or do not want to admit in totalitarianism, in historical facts, in the levers that enabled them, in the guilt that some have and feel in this regard. What is the problem, therefore, in the view of the Group of Members? In general texts that do not take account of the specificities and differences in the condemnation of totalitarianism, which are different from country to country, from nation to nation. We believe that such resolutions should follow the objective of objectivity and the historical truth written for each country individually. In particular, with a clear definition of circumstances, periods, guilt, causes and consequences. Otherwise for Italy, otherwise for Lithuania, for Austria and not least for Slovenia. Therefore, we have prepared such an additional text to the Resolution, which underlines the Slovenian specificities in the coalition and we also propose to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joško Godec on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision to establish a European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. We agree with the view that the act before us is a more appropriate expression of declaration, since the declaration under the 110th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is an act with which the National Assembly expresses itself, inter alia, on general issues, which corresponds to the content of the proposal. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service explained in detail what content the resolution requires under the Rules of Procedure, as well as what is characteristic of the resolutions adopted by the European Parliament. In this assessment, we must not be aware of the fact that the proposed act seeks to support an act of the European Parliament called Resolution. Thus, the proposal for a government opinion on the motion for a resolution, as well as a comparative review of the examination of European Parliament Resolutions in the national parliaments, which has drawn up the Research and Documentation Sector of the National Assembly, shows the usual practice of taking stock of the resolutions adopted in the European Parliament. We can see that in most of the European Union's parliaments, the resolution has not been considered, and in some, there are acts that are to be dealt with on the working bodies. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal to follow that practice and with the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April 2009, to take note, while stressing our commitment to the principles of the rule of law, democracy, freedom and consistent respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, including the rights and respect of all victims of totalitarianism, authoritarian regimes and mass violations of human rights. According to our assessment, the National Assembly expresses its respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes, while stressing that in its operation since 1990 the Republic of Slovenia has already done much to correct the injustices committed to citizens and citizens between 1945 and 1990. In particular, much has been done in the area of the adoption of regulations that have enabled the correction of the injustices against political prisoners, the conviction of post-war beatings, the detection and regulation of the covert graves of unlawfully murdered persons, the return of the post-war criminally confiscated property and many other acts. It is important to stress that we have made this easier in our country because the transition to a democratic political system of parliamentary democracy has been established by the majority will of citizens and citizens, on the legal path and without violent changes. In the DeSUS Group, we join the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which condemns all forms of violence, any loss of human dignity and fundamental rights and freedoms. We also agree with the Government's view that the most appropriate response to the said European Parliament resolution is to respect human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights and respect of all victims of totalitarianism, authoritarian regimes or mass violations of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u12	Good afternoon! The Slovenian national parties are aware that the high and morally desirable objective of the declaration cannot be achieved in such a politically manipulative and sectarian manner. All totalitarians have their bases in specific countries and regimes and cannot be condemned if they are not defined, both their origin and the consequences of their operation. It would be necessary to make it clear in the declaration that Italian and Austrian-German totalitarianism exercised over Slovenian ethnicity in its home countries, as well as in the occupied Slovenian territories, cruel genocide, gratifying, destructive violence. So it is not possible to talk about the crimes of communism, the crimes of fascism and Nazism against Slovenians, but to remain silent. Perhaps by the absolute number of victims, the number of killed and displaced Slovenes and Slovenes, is not the largest, but within the number of nations it is certainly second among the victims of totalitarianism, immediately behind the Jewish nation. In particular, crimes of totalitarianism cannot be listed and the victims of Croatian totalitarianism cannot be kept silent. It is not possible to forget the seas of the Slovenians during the NDH, but also later, as well as the crime committed by the Croatian armed forces just before the end of World War II, with aggression against Slovenian territory. This did not only cause the victims in the fights during the transition of the Slovenian territory, but also caused the killings in the Slovenian territory, which occurred after the allies returned them across the border and carried out mass killings by the JLA, Ozna and KNOJ units. It would appear to mention the manipulative silence of fascism and Nazism and the emphasis on communism, which is also undermined because it is generally known and essential that German and Italian totalitarianism and other ethnic crimes were the main and fatal generator of the so-called communist violence. Unfortunately, the Slovenians had nowhere to hide from Italian and Austrian-German and Ustakian genocide. The only ally, hand-to-hand, was a communist international. It is also undeniable that it was first fascism, then Nazism and then Stalinism and communism, at least in Europe. However, the concentration camps strategy was conceived and implemented in practice by the South African Churchill, Benito and Adolf and Josip Visarjonović only took over the patent. It is therefore not possible to talk about the declaration until things are defined in all their true dimensions. Thus, it is not possible to remain silent about any genocidal violence against Slovenians by Italy and Austria and also NDH, the legacy of which belongs to the de facto and de jure Republic of Croatia. And as it is not possible to remain silent on this violence, it is not only possible to find the facts but it is necessary to identify the steps taken to recognise not only the atrocities committed by the Slovenians but also to remedy the consequences. In this particular case, the Republic of Croatia, which must first recognise the genocide of the Slovenians and return to the territory which it has unlawfully acquired on the basis of expansionist and nationalist tendencies in its policy, before rightly requesting membership in the European Union. Of course, we will not support the amendments in the Slovenian National Party. We will vote in favour of getting familiar with the declaration and nothing else. Knowledge is a fact that means nothing more. Otherwise, if we take which totalitarianism is the worst, we could certainly include liberal capitalism among these totalitarianisms, the consequences of which we feel every day and every day more and if anything beats us, it will be us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party presented its view of war and postwar events in Slovenia in 1994 with a congress declaration. It condemned all three totalitarianism, fascism, Nazism and communism as the first of Slovenian political parties. While war and postwar events still divide Slovenian people, even young generations, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that, in the first place, all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes must be behaved in a pathetic manner and respected by all those who fought against fascism, Nazism and communism. We Slovenians have lived truly free in the independent and independent country of Slovenia with the victory over all the totalitarianism of the 20th century. That is why, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it would be good to support the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which respects all victims of totalitarian regimes. The resolution was supported by all Slovenian MEPs in the European Parliament and we see no reason why the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would not support it in such a way. It would be right for Slovenia to join the European spirit and the joint efforts expressed by the European Parliament Resolution and to take this effort fully into account in its work. By confirming the European Parliament Resolution, Slovenia would also confirm opposition to totalitarian regimes and stress the need to preserve the memory of the past because there can be no reconciliation without truth and memory. At the same time, the National Assembly should not only get to know each other, but should strongly and clearly condemn all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also support the European Parliament's call for a European Day of Remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes on 23 August. This would also honor the memory of all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes with dignity and impartiality in Slovenia. We are convinced that it is not possible to charge the entire partisan movement with all postwar killings, as it is not possible for all patriots and other anti-communist fighters to be convicted of swearing to the German occupying party. In doing so and doing so, we need to discuss, eliminate injustices, and get away with it. Today we have an extraordinary opportunity to end this story once and for all and stop torturing the people who have experienced these events in every debate when they are reliving this cruel and tragic side of our history. The country of Slovenia and the Slovenian nation need a single policy to get out of the crisis, but we do not need divisions from historical ideological contradictions. We are confident that the children and grandchildren of partisans, patriots, exiles and mobilizers, just as we have singlely earned a single Slovenia, can together and in mutual respect continue to build an economically successful and socially just state. Finally, let me just say that in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we note that, at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, the proposal has changed or shortened considerably and that we do not have a resolution to support the European Parliament's resolution, but rather a rather concise text. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the Slovenian Parliament should support the European Parliament resolution in exactly the same form as the European Parliament has adopted, including the Slovenian MEPs. We see no reason why we should now shorten this text and tailor it in our own way, because we are members of the European Union and are committed to its acts and to the European spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u16	Respectable. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we wondered what this session, forced again, could contribute to? What is the added value of this session? In our view, it can only contribute to the continuation of an impatient speech, to meet people apart, to count and so forth. This meeting is also a denial of this Parliament. It is unacceptable for us to deny ourselves what is our constitutional right, our constitutional role and, in other words, to repeat ourselves, the European Parliament is our Parliament. The roles are completely different and the denial of the National Assembly and its roles are denied if we try what citizens and citizens of Europe read in the media or on the pages of the Official Journal of the European Parliament. We have a different role and this Parliament has done much in the past in this regard. Only by concrete actions, this is the adoption of laws that correct injustices that allow a decent burial, the marking of all victims and the like, can we respond at the moment. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has also made it very clear at its congresses how it feels about past regimes, about all non-democratic authoritarian regimes, and condemned them to the extent that is, of course, in its power. At the same time, the commitment to never allow the conversion of history in practical practice, which could also be an attempt at this meeting, is not intended to evaluate or be clarophasism, fascism, Nazism, Stalinism, communism, better, less and more. The question is just who learned from whom and who took on more cruel forms of totalitarian behavior in their countries. We have 27 different stories in Europe, 27 different historical experiences. You know that Italy treats its past significantly differently than Germany. Slovenia is significantly different from Hungary and so on. But today, we can hear that fascism or collaboration was actually with a nicer or worse face, but certainly not everyone is to be judged. Moreover, some of these regimes have been advocated. In fact, the role of conservative politicians at the time of the discussions on the Treaty of Lisbon was also targeted in some way, in order to introduce our attitude towards Christianity and the "toboda" of the Roman Catholic Church into the preamble. Although, as it is said, for us, all acts in the name of churches, states, regimes, individuals who have human rights violations, the death of people, etc., are rejected. Therefore, do not hope to close this issue once and for all in this session, as some would like, because in these 20 years there have been many and always those who point to others, who do not want to close this issue, and in the end today, later, we have two laws on the agenda, which would have made a number of wounds, including decisions of the Constitutional Court and so on, we can not close them. This issue must be open to daily policy discussions, further divisions and an attempt to re-evaluate history. No, no, no. This attempt won't work. We will certainly support and continue to insist on the democratic gains of this country, which we have created with many in this Chamber and also with Slovenians and Slovenians, Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why we will support the well-prepared declaration of familiarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of the Social Democrats, we have anchored the Resolution from the very beginning. At the same time, we stress that there is no basis for the adoption of an non-legislative act already adopted by the European Parliament in the National Assembly. The research sector has drawn up a comparative review in which data are for 19 out of 27 members, and this shows that none of these countries count, none - I stress that non-binding resolutions, which in themselves apply to all European citizens and citizens, should be specifically adopted in their Parliament and specifically published. None of these resolutions were confirmed, but only three of them - Bulgaria, Estonia and Germany - dealt with it on the working body. The discussions on the Resolution have revealed a number of details. While there is high support at the time of adoption, the fact is that each political group in the European Parliament has drafted its text so that the final text is a compromise and represents the smallest common denominator of a wide variety of views. It is intended to strengthen the awareness that the three totalitarians are part of a common European history, not revenge, but compassion for the victims. It is also right to point out that the initiative was launched for it in the former countries of the Eastern bloc, to which Slovenia has actively joined. During its Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the Council of the European Union, held its first conference on the totalitarian crime regime, in April 2008. It is precisely that in which countries Slovenia has stood up in the preparation of the Resolution that requires a clear answer to the question of whether historical circumstances and our political experience can be equated with the experiences of those countries that were part of the former Soviet Union's influential zone after the end of World War II. Without doubt, the Social Democrats condemn the crimes of totalitarian regimes, but we cannot agree on the basis that the historical circumstances were the same. We have therefore also proposed an amendment on the proposal for this resolution, which is now part of the complementary proposal. It shows respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes, including those as they were and as in Slovenia after the end of World War II. We do not deny this, but we believe that this observation is designed to re-separate and divide, not in accordance with the purpose of this resolution of the European Parliament, which is supposed to lead to reconciliation, to the search for common solutions. It can be concluded that we have done much to remedy the injustices committed at the political, legal and material level. Not enough because injustice can never be fully rectified, but much, and it is right to stress that we would not evaluate those efforts that Slovenia has made in the last 20 years. It cannot be overlooked that there is a difference between the announced intentions of the applicants and everything that is going on in the National Assembly and in the public on the Resolution. Without making more detailed comments, the cracks that the resolution is supposed to remove are unfortunately becoming deeper and wider. That is why we urge her to act in her spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Janez Janša, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Somehow at the same time as the European Parliament adopted the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, a large grave of the Huda Cave was opened in Slovenia. The very coincidence of both events is probably on some deeper level. It explains the fact that this resolution of the European Parliament has encountered quite a sharp rejection only in two capitals, Ljubljana and Moscow. Before discussing this resolution as a work force, as well as in public debates, it was repeatedly stressed that only the Slovenian Parliament at this level is discussing this resolution from all members of the European Union. That's true, and you have to ask yourself why. In no other Member State of the European Union has this resolution aroused a great deal of interest and even less of any rejection, which is why there is no need for discussion, except in Ljubljana and Moscow. And it is not true that government representatives claim that the European Parliament Resolution itself has obliged all citizens of the Member States of the European Union to follow or follow these guidelines, as one of the key guidelines of this resolution has recommended that countries declare 23 August as a memorial day for the victims of all totalitarian systems in Europe. The Slovenian Government, the Slovenian authorities, the Slovenian ruling coalition did not take this recommendation into account, but boycotted it. On 23 August, nothing was organised at the national level, which would be organised by the Government. The Center for National Reconciliation then organized some sort of ceremony, but there was no government representative. Therefore, it does not hold true that this resolution is taken into account in itself. For every democrat in Europe, it is perfectly self-evident to reject all totalitarianism and not justify any. In Moscow and Ljubljana alone, this is not self-evident. The resolution states that the wrong policy towards history refers to the promotion of hatred and intolerance towards other thinkers. A lot of celebrations and speeches in recent weeks under the symbols of the totalitarian regime have been heard and it has been mediaically presented, where we have seen the consequences of the wrong policy towards history, which this resolution, which we are talking about today, draws attention to. And this event in Slovenia has shown that we are not going anywhere again. Here we again have before us the day of some fruitless debates and accusations between us that Slovenia is moving away from the European value framework, and that this will soon lead to conflict. In this particular case, we have also been able to monitor the duality of the transition left; there is a calm vote in Brussels and it is not even debated, but it is voted in favour of a resolution which is generally European and European Democrats everywhere, but at home, harsh insults fall on the Resolution. If I were to quote a few speeches, I would go down to the level of those who said it, and today it is being built up by a vote on war laws. For four years we have coordinated these laws in the previous term, we have promised the Slovenian public that we will not accept them by voting, little by consensus, now we are going to vote. This topic is also being used to distract attention from the economic crisis. The cultural struggle is a good topic in this sense. The ruling coalition is very united when it comes to ideological issues. In an hour, they'll be united about naming the street after a dictator. Six months is not enough to unify the adoption of key measures against the economic crisis. Before I went to this pay phone, I looked at the government's website. The latest news on the fight against the financial and economic crisis project has a date of 21 May. That's where you should be up-to-date, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 8. 9. 2009 You must have gotten this document on the table by now. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS Group to the first chapter. I think we can do this at the same time with a link to the title to the third amendment on the fourth page because they are connected. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to discuss the amendment to chapter one? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that the proposal that is being discussed here today and the principle support for the Resolution is worthy of our support without any additional amendments, as the SDS representative himself has made it clear that in most European capitals they have not discussed this resolution with particular interest. The resolution is a natural one, based on the fact that the European Union is based on democracy and respect for human rights. There is no doubt that the EU is founded on these principles, and there is no doubt that the European Union is founded on the idea of peace, cooperation among nations and that it has emerged on a strong anti-fascist topic. There is no doubt that Eastern Europe was able to join the European Union only after Soviet totalitarianism failed, when the Berlin Wall finally fell in a more or less non-violent way and the period of Soviet communist power in the work of Europe ended. The European Parliament's resolution is generally acceptable to all who believe in democracy and to the future of Europe because it underlines the European Union's commitment to democracy and respect for human rights. However, if we try to understand it as it is written, and in the context of how it was created, it is unfortunately one of the poorly exploited opportunities. She's a bit confused in her dictions, and just because she wants to please everyone who's been involved in her creation, there's actually a lot of confusion, a lot of inconsistencies. It is evident that the basic intention of this resolution was to incinerate, first and foremost, the demonisation of one totalitarianism and only subsequently the intervention of other parliamentary groups in the European Parliament, in particular the Socialists, the Liberals, the Greens, added a slightly broader palette, a wider spectrum of totalitarianism, in order to identify everyone with this resolution. There is no doubt that communism has prevented democracy, and it has blamed postwar crimes that can only be condemned most decisively. He violated human rights, especially with us in the early stages, right after the war, and about the age of 70. However, it is also true that the system created after the victory against fascism did not destroy the Slovenian identity and identity of other national groups in Slovenia. Most, however, have provided peace, dignity, and social security in those conditions. We also have openness to the world, which is also irrelevant. Our current statehood as a successor to what Slovenia acquired after World War II as a republic, thanks exclusively to NOB, proves this. The attempt, which is hidden somewhere in the context of the formation of this resolution, to try to equalise Nazism, fascism and communism or socialism in Slovenia should not lead to an interpretation of the European Parliament's declaration on totalitarianism. In this respect, I think that Mr Sugar has defined the framework of the debate very carefully and rationally. I also support him. I think that the debate must be quite clear, sober, without those emotional impulses that sometimes mislead us and lead us to a very irrational debate on this. I think that great differences in understanding the importance of democracy and also avoiding future mistakes that would lead to totalitarian systems are common. And this experiment, I hope, is today together. But when we're talking about historical facts, there's something that needs to be explained. Nazism and its subsidiary fascism, although historically older, but in the hierarchy has become actually a subsidiary, have caused World War II and are directly responsible for the Holocaust and the genocidal policy in the conquered territories. They are not comparable to any other authoritarian regime in Europe. The political and military movements that supported Nazism inquisitively took over part of this responsibility. As wrote by the famous Italian Jewish writer Primo Levi, Nazism was absolutely evil. The systematic and ideological extermination of Jews, Roma, Sints, rebels, anti-fascists, communists, different homosexuals and many women and children is in European history to refugees. Rasize and extermination are in its theoretical and ideological bases. We must never forget that. Stalinism was primarily a cruel system-wide degeneration of ideology, which initially had an ambition to liberate man and treat him equally and fairly. According to Levi, if I quote him a little bit, Stalin's gulags are mainly the continuation of the cruel tradition of Russian carism, which also invented gulags, but in communist disguises. Communism in Eastern Europe had different developments. After all, Dubček was also a certain communist, and after all Angela Voda was a noble, confident and noble communist. Otherwise, I would advise that we listen to other Jewish philosopher Ani Arent. Although Arentova believes that Stalinism is to some extent a direct derivative of Marxism, it also notes that the thread that binds Marks and Aristotle is significantly stronger than that which binds Marks and Stalin. Interesting and also for this debate, I think it is very useful, but its central focus is on the emergence of European totalitarianism. In history, says Arentova in her book Vita Assets, there are two conflicting traditions. One main and majority which opposes the plurality and diversity of society and one alternative which advocates plurality, diversity and tolerance. Unfortunately, the latter is a minority, but the only real antidote is against totalitarian ideologies. In other words, the progeny of totalitarianism has roots in the social and cultural hummus of intolerance, which can be revolutionary or reactionary, religious and conservative, economically even liberal, or antierist and collective. Unfortunately, in history, the church has also played a role as an advocate of the main tradition, i.e. the majority tradition, after its specific hierarchical structure and discrimination of women's sex. In this House too, regrettably, it is often to feel the origins of totalitarianism and totalitarian speech. They are expressed in impatience to different, to minorities, to other nations, to other countries, to deleted, to Roma, to same-sex communities and so on. They appear in the convictions of national treason at the expense of other thinkers. Some of you condemn other colleagues of national treason, almost in every debate. And even in absolute qualifications, demands that we support without any doubt any statement coming from the European Parliament. I personally support this statement, but with all these concerns, especially with the belief that everyone has the right to maintain his or her opinion, even critically, until every attempt at simple and simple interpretations of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u24	Good day, too, on my part, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about the amendments to chapter one and the title because they're bound. However, in order not to steal valuable time, I will also express my position as a member of the Slovenian National Party until the amendment to the second chapter. I won't support any of these three myself. This reference was made to the debate or to the debate on the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the mother's working body renamed the substance of today's reference to the Declaration on the familiarity with the Resolution of the European Parliament. Okay. I'm going to press "for" to get acquainted with the Declaration of familiarity with the Resolution. However, I will not support the amendment because I am forced to express my support for the European Parliament's resolution. In the first paragraph, the amendment to the first chapter, the amendment to the second chapter and also the amendment to the title. I will not support and support if we are talking about a declaration and a resolution and a general position clearly defined in the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament do not distinguish between a declaration and a resolution at all. Whatever. I'll press "for" to get acquainted with the Declaration of Resolution if that's what you want. I will not support the amendments to any chapter because no one can force me to express my support. However, I express it not because of what we have heard in the implementation of the champion of the Slovenian National Party - that the resolution must be clear, concrete and precise when it comes to totalitarianism. I would like to participate when we talk about a declaration or a resolution, if you want, when the time is needed in this country, about Slovenia, not in general. I don't want to be around to re-separate the Slovenian nation from the past, and I don't want to be among those who throw sand into people's eyes with the content we're talking about today, while those cruel and real living things are hidden behind this sand that we're throwing into people's eyes. I think that the National Assembly and all of us 90 Members, regardless of political colours today and in the coming days, have far more responsibilities than talking about something that is general, inconclusive and which is "placing" to each of us from one, other or third period. I will support or say that I am familiar with the resolution or declaration, but I will not support and express my support for this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Today could actually be a historic day for Slovenia if everyone in Parliament accepted the European Union's sincere values. Thus, we are witnessing another day when masks fall when it is seen that the ruling coalition has one face for the European Union and a completely different face for domestic use. I'm sad for myself, but at least it'll be in some way a benefit to see who's who. The government and the coalition said earlier that it was inappropriate for Parliament to accept or express its support, because it would actually be an expression of support for this resolution because it was not European. What a hoax that is! This just confirms that you are truly incapable of intercultural dialogue, because intercultural dialogue, which we have conducted in this very hall of the pan-European meeting, as our basic assumption is a sincere conversation, is said to avoid the diversion and avoidance of the hate speech that you have displayed in one of the performances of the ruling coalition yourself. This, of course, is non-European. And why this resolution is so much European, why it is a resolution on European consciousness, which everyone in the ruling coalition always lets go in your own words. Since, when the European Parliament adopted this, it has created a valuable starting point, even the European Union's civilisation base, because it has very clearly outlined the European standard, which is now evident in a high degree of consensus, which is a special quality achieved in the European Parliament. This is a compromise, but this compromise has been made over a long period of time with great agreement, with the agreement of the majority of all the large parliamentary groups in the European Parliament and the vast majority of 89% of all the MEPs present. This is a special quality of this resolution, and it can therefore be said peacefully that it has drawn a European value point that you, ladies and gentlemen are completely opposed to. You are opposed to him in substance when we are talking about the decision that replaced this resolution and which you want to make today's decision. In it, you touch specifically some of the historical reports of historians and refer to them as a special quality and at the same time evaluate certain historical actions. Let's say you're also talking about fixing the wrongs. Do you know what the European resolution says and why you are really running from it? Let the people know. It speaks of the starting point that there is no objective historical report, the quotation referred to in point A, and B that no political body, no political party has the exclusive right to explain history. So exactly what you're doing with this decision, by voting. This is said to be what you want to replace the European resolution, in complete contrast with the very origin of the European resolution and therefore is extremely non-European. That's really what this is about. You do not judge Europe by these criteria. And that's even better if we look at the whole session today. You want to replace the European resolution by a vote on the adoption of two laws, which you have not even invited even the most relevant civil society organisations, except to reach agreement with them. How non-European such a thing is! All right, so you've decided that, in addition to your incompetence and incompetence, that people, just by lowering wages, by prolonging the types of unemployed, with all the difficulties they face these days, feel on their own skin every day, add their obvious non-Europeanism. And let us draw attention to some more facts in this regard. Each Parliament has a special role and a special duty. Parliament is a fundamental and democratic institution. Governments, courts also have non-democratic regimes, even Nazism had all of these. But democratically, plurally elected parliament has only democratic systems. And before this responsibility, the European Parliament has not fled, the European Parliament has adopted this challenge and has formulated a special resolution with an extremely high level of consensus. At the same time, he had to go through a lot of his history, admitting that he was silent about Europe's silence when the socialists performed the Holocaust in Ukraine. Everyone knows about the Holocaust of the Jews, but the same or even greater number of people were killed in the most disgusting way, by hunger, during socialism in Russia or in the former Soviet Union. At that time, Nazis and fascists went to education to socialists, national socialists went to education to international socialists, how to build a conflict camp, how to carry out mass destruction. And this first collaboration that became apparent at the signing of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact is therefore the most disgusting collaboration that has ever been. It was not caused by some war crisis, but it was challenged by the power of a system of absolute power, in which for certain layers there was no room for certain people, and according to the strategies of this experiment, a disgusting experiment, it was just necessary to kill them. And you're running from this collaboration. You don't want to make this judgment very clear. Even more so, when Europe announced the day in memory of this disgusting first collaboration, you fled before that and all of you were missing from that event. Just as when this country had the first, unfortunately, only, ceremony in memory of all victims of postwar violence, and your absence also then cried out to heaven. I am speaking, of course, of the largest government party that so refers to values. From this point of view, the only way to confirm this declaration is to accept the amendments and thus enforce European criteria also in Slovenia, because in fact, I have a very personal opinion on this. It was an attempt, one of which was once made by the SDS, and I was the author of it myself, but if you want to, you didn't accept it. Just like nobody else. These duties, moral duties, this Parliament has never done. And if the European Declaration is not able to accept it now, why, tell me why we would be involved in something like this. In order to continue to carry out your ideological struggle, you will not utter the hate speech, as you have done in some debates up to this point, and I am sure that there will be a whole bunch of them today? That doesn't make any sense. Then it must be said that by your conduct you are also shaping a precedent for the future and that it is true to learn something from this experience. And it must be kept in mind that not only Parliament has this special role to play in shaping the moral, ethical, value framework, which the European Parliament has done with this resolution, but it has an even greater role in Slovenia. Slovenia is the only country where the number after the war is significantly higher than the number of victims of World War II on Slovenian soil. Although the Baltic countries have also faced other things, with displacement, with all other sad stories, but only Slovenia knows such a story. Only in the Huda Cave or in that anti-tank ditch, which had been dug up a little bit quickly, there by Maribor, the number after World War II of slain victims is significantly higher than the number of all victims in Srebrenica. You know that very well. That is why it is a great treachery when it is often said that Srebrenica is the saddest story of Europe since World War II. And in Slovenia there are such severe caves, according to testimonies, according to the collected data there are still more than 600. Where's the pieté? Where is the European value point, ladies and gentlemen, when we get this data? And silence and complacency in these stories, and in particular the fact that you are even running away from this with such a high consensus as the European Union's values framework, such as the European Parliament's resolution, is, of course, crying into the sky. Just like the whales of those girls living in the Devil's Cave.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! We therefore have before us an amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, saying, inter alia, that the National Assembly fully supports that resolution, because it also expresses respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes. With the support of the resolution, we also call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to follow the recommendations of the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. The National Assembly also calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to declare 23 August as a day of remembrance for all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. We have before us a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April. It was then supported by 98% of all Members, including all Slovenian European Members, regardless of any party's affiliation or political conviction. And I must say that this single vote at the time indicated that perhaps Slovenian political space can finally achieve reconciliation and reconciliation in relation to the past half-time history, to recognize and condemn criminal systems and thus lay new sound foundations for the future. However, at the confirmation of this resolution, which condemns all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, it has been shown that some MEPs show their Europeanism and democracy and openness only on the European floor, on the European political scene, and when they cross the border and return to their home environment, they forget about it and even despise it. All of this shows that it is not only the frank duality of some European Members, but that such dual action adapted to the needs of a certain space, for a certain period of time, shows the symptomatic functioning of the political option that is in power today. One is the public statements that we have already been used to, something else is happening in the background. The resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism has several previous documents with similar themes already adopted at the European level either within the Council of Europe or within individual members of the European Union. I would like to highlight two resolutions here in particular. The first discusses measures to eliminate the legacy of the former communist regimes and the 2006 resolution. Of course, we must not forget and ignore the powdered statement on European consciousness and communism, under which Waclav Havel was first signed and was originally envisaged as a common statement of the European Union. It is not a matter of ignoring the obvious fact that so far this statement has been signed by thousands of Europeans, including many well-known individuals. All these resolutions, statements, declarations on this subject point above all to the essential need for an objective evaluation of the actions of half-lived history, including in Slovenia. And as the powder says, "The societies that ignore the past have no future. The final reconciliation of all European nations is not possible without a focused and in-depth effort to find the truth and improve the memory." It is true, this is not a matter of the political conviction of one party or another, but it is a simple question of truth and the question of conscience to a half-lived history and, of course, a question of responsibility. Therefore, certainly, the purpose of today's debate is not to offend any other party, it is an insult to one another, nor is it the intention of today's debate to instigate evil on the part of any other party or to be populist in the debate. This is not the purpose of today's debate. Nor is the purpose of today's debate to work with its words in the direction of cultural struggle. And this should be followed by the next panellists. Today's debate should show whether, as politicians from different shores at all in 2009, we are capable of transcending division, of condemning the crimes of totalitarian regimes and indeed finally taking a step towards reconciliation. For it seems that the beginning of reconciliation in the corner of Kočev was not continuing his mission years ago. While there were all the country's high representatives present, they thought, of course, that only their presence would balance the situation in that area and that the injustices caused to thousands of Slovenians would be wiped out in this way. It is likely that these injustices could be erased if they were taken seriously and honestly in the Horn of Kočev, especially if someone was responsible for these injustices. Or as a real powder statement, I quote: "The crimes of communism must be punished and condemned from a legal, moral and political point of view.".. Sadly, though, only symbolically remained with us on these matters. While reconciliation was somehow more achieved in terms of the piette to the dead, although in some cases this has not yet occurred if we look at only the case of the Hude Cave, there was no reconciliation in the political sense, which is crucial, although some want to simply question it or ignore it. On the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, it has been repeatedly said by Members of the ruling coalition or the ruling party in the coalition that the motions for this meeting wish to impose opinions and to make history through the consideration of the resolution. This could still be believed if it were our text, which we have prepared in the Slovenian Parliament. This is a very interesting statement. This resolution has been adopted in the European Parliament, with the participation of all Member States of the European Union or Members. Of course, these Members weighed the opinions, the statements before they were written in the final version that is before us today. This resolution has certainly not been designed simply for the sake of horror and merely for the purpose of imposing an opinion on someone. It is interesting to note this statement that we wish to impose this meeting on someone and to embody history in this sense, because the resolution condemns all totalitarian regimes - without exception and in condemning these systems, we certainly cannot talk in any way about the question of imposing an opinion on another, but it is simply a common human value that should be clear to every human being, and it is necessary to condemn an evil that must never be repeated again. And here we are talking about all the criminal systems that in the past have caused great suffering, injustices and woes. We're talking about Nazism, fascism, and communism. All three totalitarians marked the Slovenian nation and the individual. Both the Nazis, who have also been condemned by the highest representatives of Germany, and the fascism on which we are still awaiting conviction from Italian politics, as well as communism, which has abused NOB and partisanism for the purposes of the revolutionary government and, in fact, lived on Slovenian soil for the most time. And also this totalitarianism, says communism, on Slovenian soils is still awaiting a conviction by the country's top representatives, who, however, like to refer very much to European standards, European values, the rule of law, human rights and freedom of thought. Regrettably, this openness and broad-mindedness end in the issue of condemning crimes, as condemned by the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Of course, I am not emotionally and time bound so much to events from a half past history, so I can certainly look at them, at least in my opinion, more objectively, with some critical distance. I therefore rightly wonder when we will live apart on these issues and why we did not put things in place years ago. Of course, we can get a lot of answers to these two questions, but something is clear: if history were to be evaluated objectively and it would not be in our service, of course, mostly left-wing political options, if it were to show the views of both sides the same, if both sides also recognised errors, then today this period of history would no longer be used, but also abused in current political accounts, but would be seen as a period that is part of our history and represents a memory of some time, as well as a reminder. Unfortunately, because we still have policy at the level of partisans and patriots and liberators and collaborators, we still have problems at all social levels, as in the consciousness of people there is still only the truth of revolutionary power, whose heirs still shape political atmosphere in the country. The failure to condemn totalitarianism by the top representatives of this country, in my opinion, shows great ignorance and the fact that the declaration of second-rateness of these issues was not reckless, but is a reflection of some state in which the current political elite is spinning. In my opinion, denial and non-recognition, as well as non-conviction of these regimes, totalitarianism, put Slovenia within the space of European nations in an extremely unpleasant position. While the rest of the European countries have condemned the crimes of all totalitarian regimes, the top representatives of the country somehow do not listen. The purpose of today's debate is not to insult or enforce the opposite opinion, but to seek a way to unify the condemnation of all totalitarianism. However, in view of the debates and public statements that we have witnessed before the Committees' resolution, I feel that the natural successors of the regime, which has fully violated human rights and has not recognised the rule of law, are actually trying to further break the Slovenian nation by instigating that the applicants of this meeting, of course I am also one of them, want to change the historical facts and rehabilitate the cooperation. This has been said several times. It is certainly a deliberate accusation and a diversion for fear that the myth of a real fight without a revolution would not accidentally fall as a house of cards. In fact, I think the opposite is happening. With the apparent rehabilitation of collaboration, Communists are trying to reintroduce the logic of civil war and revolution. This proves that it is, in fact, the rehabilitation of communism in all its emerging forms. And this is a major problem of today's society in Slovenia. For the crime that was committed against the thousands of Slovenians after the war cannot be denied. And this, of course, has nothing to do with left or right perception or some political belief. Here it is simply the highest value in itself, it is a human life that can never be distinguished from the left life of man or to the right life of man. The victim's a victim. I will therefore support, therefore, both the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the resolution. I hope that this will even happen so that we can vote on it. For I believe that such confirmation of the resolution which has been established in the European Parliament and is supported by all the countries of the European Union is necessary for the Slovenian social climate and for this place in which we are at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We therefore have before us a document entitled European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism, supported by all Slovenian Members, including those of the kind of coalition. I would expect that with such a document, there will be no special problems with the rhetoric here in the National Assembly or, I'll say, the rhetoric of coalition parties. However, the problems were already on the committee, as we had to meet four times at the wish of the coalition, to present a discussion of this topic, to put somewhere I know where, etc. What is happening today in the National Assembly is unusual. Let us reverse the European Parliament's document with the will of the coalition by not being the same document anymore, or by distorting it so that it is no longer the same document. We can compare the matter with someone who intended to build a residential block, and eventually a hut came out of palm leaves. Why? For a basic reason, since at least the part of the document that you have put under number 1 at the outset, this is an introduction, it makes some clear things very clear. Among other things, he says, "because the official political views of historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions..." and so on. So today you're doing exactly what you wrote down not to be, a lie. Let's move on. The discovery, among other things, is that since 1990 there has been a lot of work done to detect and regulate hidden graves. As if no mining inspector had happened and shut down what was done in the Slovenian space. If you have any serious intention, provide conditions, not close the detection of these graves. Next. In particular, one paragraph in this document is funny, so we also want to correct it with an amendment, which says so, which is the last sentence of the third paragraph, which says: "...in doing so, we stress that it has made it easier", so it is a transition to the plural system of the 1990s, "because its transition to a democratic political system of parliamentary democracy is enforced by the majority will of citizens and citizens, by legal means, without the necessity of violent change" and so on. Finally, the claim that the entire post-war period was a communist system, i.e. a one-party system, democratized. But look at the fragment! Where'd that come from? Isn't the situation really the other way around? Or does anyone think that in 1990 there would be some changes just because someone remembered on this side of the building where the Communist Party's central committee was saying, "We're going to set up more clients to have a plural system." That's impossible. No, it's not true, ladies and gentlemen! The street was the one that forced the leadership then to do so, or people would have acted, as they did in Romania, and I could say that the leadership had been seen in time. Do not be foolish in these matters, because we will soon be able to read that the system of things and the party of that time have introduced a plural system. That's what we write here. That's bullshit. That's a lie. Like the one where someone said communism was until 1953. Or as someone said today, by the 1970s, it was a little wrong, a little totalitarian, and not anymore after the '70s. As if all the victims, from the Dachau processes, I do not know which processes all those who had the opportunity to survive in 1985 or, ladies and gentlemen, would not have had the right to work, social and health insurance in 1989. If we came to see that movie at the Reichenburg Castle, we'd see it. And so we say, until 1970, and then everything was fine. Where'd you come from? And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, amendment number two, which relates to this matter that we have dealt with on the Committee, reads: "The European Parliament resolution is deleted." This is what you wrote: The European Parliament resolution is deleted. But people understand that, too. This is also understood by those simple people who may not yet be able to read. This should therefore be corrected, this should have been changed to the following sentence, which we today adopt: "The entire text of the Resolution of the European Parliament... on European consciousness and totalitarianism is published among the acts of the European Union." So what people understand, then you have to put the mask on so that people don't understand. But it must be made clear that today you are deleting the European Parliament resolution, which has also been confirmed by your Members. There's a whole bunch of things in government material that are completely contradictory. The government, for example, says in the material that the most appropriate response to the said European Parliament Resolution is to respect human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights to respect for all victims of totalitarianism, authoritarian regimes and mass violations of human rights. Really? Why is the Huda Cave closed? Why is that? Why, then, are we going to adopt two laws this afternoon, which have continued for 20 years, and continue to share and not unite. And you're saying that we share and we don't team up. No, it's not. By pressing "for", this afternoon on these two laws, you will continue to divide into first and second-class. They're cracking. But these kinds of actions do. These kinds of actions. Both marriages that will be on the agenda this afternoon could be accepted by us. We had the majority, but we wanted to listen to your voice, and you don't want ours. And one more thing. Just for closure. Who are we talking about? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u31	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u32	When we talk about these victims, there's something else to say. [[...]] Today in this Chamber, one of the MPs, the leader of the parliamentary groups, said: "Totalitarianism is worthy of condemnation, and in particular the victims of these totalitarianisms." Are we condemning the victims of totalitarianism in this hall today? I repeat, totalitarianism is worthy of judgment, and especially the victims of these totalitarianisms. I hope it was a lapsus, but it's something scary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u34	Your Honor! I don't support the opposition's amendment. The question whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should adopt a Resolution of the European Parliament and publish it in the Official Journal has been resolved by the Research-Documentation Sector, since the comparative analysis of Parliaments of individual countries has clearly shown that such conduct is not an exception. The key argument for the publication of the Resolution in the Official Journal fell with this comparative analysis. It is also stated by which majority of the European Parliament has adopted a resolution. By the way, if we count all absent Members, abstentions and votes against, 30% of the Members did not vote on it. However, the ideas are also substantive. Indeed, it is increasingly critical to the public that the document is not balanced. His bias is detected. Despite the general condemnation of all totalitarianisms, it treats different forms unevenly, but in particular it is not adapted to the situation in Slovenia. That's a fact. Fascism has been mentioned only once. The writers could have prepared a more objective text if they had not consciously forgotten the periods, such as Salazar in Portugal, Frank in Spain, colonels in Greece, Makarios in Cyprus and dictatorial regimes in the Baltic countries, Litovac, Antanas Smetton in 1926, anti-German and anti-Jewish nationalism, the Latvian dictator Ulmanis and the dictatorship of Konstantin Päts of 1936 in Estonia. We will not find these cases in the comprehensive text of the resolution. The pump around the Resolution in Slovenia by the right hand and the Catholic circles, which strongly highlights only the crimes of Stalinism and communism, in relativizing the savagery of fascism and Nazism in our territory and thereby justifying cooperation, justified the role of the Roman Catholic Church?. It is not a coincidence that the resolution was published for the first time in a printed version right in the RCC Family Week. It was published on the central page with capital letters like papal circuits. We hear they all collapsed, partisans with Stalinism, patriots with Nazism. Really, it's two totalitarians. However, it is forgotten who was the occupying party of Slovenia. Despite the communist regime, Slovenia has remained, otherwise it certainly would not. The equation of those who went to the partisans with those who took arms from the invader is unethical. Fortunately, most of the Christian - oriented Slovenian people did not respond to the call of the bishops of the Roman Catholic Church. Thank God! Their conscience, national awareness, and, more recently, Christian socialists directed most of the Slovenians to the side of the allies. Unfortunately, Bishop Rozman did not respond to Edward Kocbek's letter. Kocbek invited the bishop to the dialogue and advised him to keep the church, if it cannot be neutral, at least not burdening the individual’s conscience. Bishop Rozman branded believers who would cross into the types of NOBs as sinners - perpetrators of mortal sin. The Collaboration still apologizes for the fight against ungodly communism, as if Nazifascism were an ally of faith. The Nazis would not have broken the church, but they would have subordinated it and incorporated it into their criminal plans. Ever since the Battle of Thermopilah, when Efialt gave the Persians information about the military, there has been a rule: Betrayal is welcome, useful, useful, and no one likes traitors. The Persians did not reward the Efialt. He ended up sad, even more so than was confirmed by the well - known conqueror Attila, who dealt cruelly with all who wanted to go to his side by betraying their own nation. How would the patriots end up winning Nazism? Would you like to reward the collaborators? Would you like to give Slovenia independence? No, no, no. We would probably end up sad, as if we were dealing with the partisans, probably ending the fate of the patriots, because Hitler was planning to wipe Slovenia off the map. His call, "Make me this country German again," says enough. As such, the Roman Catholic Church has never been condemned or deplored. Regrettably, only individual crimes are spoken of. Slovenia needs reconciliation more than the European Parliament Resolution on the half-life of history. There's been a lot of reconciliation attempts. However, it will not be possible for us to recuperate until each side regrets its wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Let me first say that we have not proposed in the coalition as an introduction to the parliamentary autumn treatment of historical topics at the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, but have imposed a historic debate on the opposition party: the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party. So much for your knowledge, because from the words of President Janša, it was different to understand. All too often in modern Slovenia we have witnessed attempts to revalue our past history, especially the national-liberal struggle. This time, some political parties have misused the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism for historical accounting. Under the pretext of equating fascism, Nazism and communism, the involvement of domestic publishers with the occupying party as a resistance to revolutionary power has been justified during and after the national liberation struggle. However, when the Slovenian collaborators joined the Fascism of Mussolini Italy and the Nazism of Hitler's Germany, they made a fatal historic mistake, which no resolution can fix here in the European Parliament or the National Assembly, but can, of course, thoroughly blur historical facts. The resolution refers to 23 August as an important date, which is proposed as the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Stalinism and Nazism, or as the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes, so that we can honour their memory with dignity and impartiality. August 23, referred to as the only date [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] resolutions, but history is more complex and more intertwined. [[..]] Historically, it is August 23, 1939, the day the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed, with which Germany and Russia shared interesting spheres in Europe. The result was Hitler’s attack on Poland and thus the outbreak of World War II, which on September 1st had taken place for 70 years. At the same time, Russia occupied part of Polish territory. But in 1936, Hitler’s Germany sent Wehrmacht to the left bank of the demilitarized Reno for the first time in breach of Versailles peace, which was concluded after World War I. None of the allies then responded, for the Nazis it was a sign that they could continue in this manner and, of course, it was. After 1936 and 1937, between Germany, Japan and Italy was first signed by the so-called anti-compartment pact, the predecessor of the Triple Pact. In 1938, Germany annexed Austria, which it considered to be part of its country. Similarly, it continued with the Sudets, the work of Czechoslovakia. France and the United Kingdom also participated in this act. They pacted with Germany on 30 September 1938 and signed the Munich Agreement with which Germany was granted the right to the Sudets and so the Western superpowers agreed to the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia. In doing so, it should be pointed out that even Poland, I repeat, even Poland, whose army occupied two Czech provinces at the moment Vermacht struck the government with a death blow. In a bad year, Poland itself became the victim of Hitler’s Germany. With these historical facts, I just wanted to illustrate that history cannot be written in black and white and simplified, as indicated by the European Parliament's Resolution, which does not take account of specific historical circumstances in individual countries of Europe during and after World War II. The list of the main authors of this resolution, who are home mainly from the Baltic countries and Poland, is also very well documented and they wrote this document mainly from their own, national, very traumatic, multi-year Soviet supremacy. It is also very helpful that one of the extraparliamentary parties, the President of Nova Slovenije's proposal to stop the full rehabilitation of the partisan hospital Franje, appeared almost simultaneously during these historic discussions. On the fact that the European Union has given the Partizan Hospital a sign of European heritage and has been on the UNESCO World Heritage List since 2000. It should be stressed that agreement has been reached for the full reconstruction of the Partizan Hospital of France in both its profession and its policy. The decision on its renewal has already been taken by the previous government and the current project will also be successfully completed. It is important that the restoration of France as a place of remembrance of the time of the greatest conflict in the history of mankind is also highly favoured by public opinion. This extraordinary monument of self-sacrifice and human nobility will be restored, despite some particular objections that already have the sense of ideological intolerance, just as it is appropriate for modern and modern society. Of course, I will support the proposal for a declaration on the European Parliament's resolution on the basis of European consciousness and totalitarianism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u37	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In opening, let me explain that I will not support the proposed amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution, because I insist on the position already stated several times now that the support or adoption of the European Parliament resolution in this National Assembly does not need to be carried out, that we have spoken on this subject six times on two working bodies and that we have not convinced the applicants of the extraordinary meeting. Let me add again that it is impossible to agree that the proposed amended text to the text tabled by the SDS together with the People's Party has distorted the text of the Resolution of the European Parliament. The resolution is adopted in the text as it is and cannot be amended in any way. For my behavior, let me twist it. During the four months of this year, from January to the end of April, the European Parliament adopted 88 resolutions and 12 views and recommendations at six meetings. None of these texts were adopted, confirmed or otherwise addressed by any national body at parliamentary level in writing, except where requested. In particular, I would like to stress that this is not a European resolution. This is a resolution of the European Parliament, because only representatives of 27 countries and not all European countries are present in the European Parliament. This also gives a different dimension to the assessment of history. It is a mistake to talk about European history and not take into account the characteristics of all national history. The motioners spoke of the fact that a European Parliament resolution could not be geared to the experience of individual countries. I therefore ask: How can one understand the debate of one of those Members who voted in favour of this resolution and in what debate can it be observed that it is precisely a reference to national circumstances when it comes to street names and more? And this is a completely different position, such as the position of one of the other Members of the previous European Parliament, which was also possible to read in the Saturday annex of one of the Slovenian diaries. It is therefore a clear fact that the views on the history of European countries are different and that this is what the resolution points out. Social Democrats themselves do not think that history is allowed to be simplified. And I thank the representative of the proposers, who, in his initial additional explanation, said in fact, that the context in which an extraordinary meeting was requested and the adoption of support for this resolution is very political. And it is quite clear that even after this meeting we will not be any closer to a political assessment of certain behaviours and that differences in the same events are getting deeper because some take account of the causal chain and others do not. Some also ignore the time dimension of events. How did these texts, which we are talking about today, come about by the resolution adopted by the Council of Europe and when, how was the European Parliament resolution? Now putting this in the context of the Hude Cave is actually manipulation and abuse of what I want to prove with another fact. The SDS has put us in a position in which we have to defend ourselves constantly, and they do not want to hear that the party that is the predecessor of the Social Democrats has distanced itself from the Slovenian Congress; even more so, the United List of Social Democrats has condemned and regretted postwar killings and extrajudicial convictions and has thus acknowledged the part that you say is not an apology because you say it is a denial and acquittal of the crimes of totalitarian regimes. I stress: Social Democrats have taken over their share of responsibility and part of the blame, whatever anyone thinks they have, and they know how to do it. [[...]] [[Meds from the sentinel benches.]] It is that, although some have been told at least six times since April, they constantly deny it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u39	Go ahead, Master.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. At least I hope it's one of the sets again. Well, I hope it doesn't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u41	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u42	Yes, thank you very much. It is therefore a matter of hearing what we want to hear, reading what we want to read; but it is by chance today that we define literacy and literacy just by knowing and understanding what we read. And to think that today's debate will help to acknowledge that anti-communism was alive before the Nazis in this country, which we felt during World War II and Fascism, which affected our country and, in particular, our coastal compatriots before World War II. Anti-communism was a very determined activity of the Roman Catholic Church and there are known cases of persecuted communists, in which case I think of communists, asking for help, for example, a minister who is a member of a party whose successor is also in today's parliament, in the current parliament, and who has not even replied to it. This communist then died in the Contraction Camp. To talk about how totalitarianism can be equated, experts have, since we have been discussing, repeatedly warned and warned against simplifying history. Cooperation with the occupier does not apply only to us, but Nazis have also been condemned in other European countries. There's only one way I'm going to warn you. Many of you read the works of Knut Hamsun - they were not printed in Sweden because he supported Nazism. And now that again Sweden is deciding whether or not to do so, there is a great controversy as to whether supporting and agreeing with Hitler can be justified or not. This is also an experience that speaks of the fact that we are not Slovenians, nothing unusual in the European space, and that the issue of resistance to Nazism, fascism, is an issue that others are facing; however, not all European countries and not all countries in the European Parliament have experience with communism. I think that our insistence is enough if our Parliament is just familiar with the European Parliament's resolution, but the good intentions of which we have discussed have been, unfortunately, repeatedly trampled before today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u43	Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u45	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u46	I have a procedural proposal. I propose that the meeting be suspended in order to set a time limit for the debate of the Member of the Treasury, this is duly deducted from the total time of the Group of Members, since now, about 10 minutes, the time has not elapsed for the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You're right, Mr. Tanko, we've already seen this coming. The malfunction was central, it wasn't the lady behind the camera, nor were we. Nevertheless, even if we did not interrupt the meeting, we could tell how much time was later turned down and make up for it. However, because it is true, we continue the debate. I also suggest that in 10 minutes we suspend the session to clear this up. Mr. Potts, do you have one? Please. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Well, we'll wait. [[...]] I'm taking a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u48	We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that when you apply for a debate, in the event that time is not properly recorded or recorded in the first debater, I will suspend the meeting for a long time to determine what is wrong. We continue the debate. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, this interruption has been proposed in order to determine to the Group of the Social Democrats how much time it has spent by the Member of the Treasury in order to make an appropriate deduction of this time from the common time. That's how these things work out before we proceed with the meeting. What's going to happen then, we'll be able to figure it out during the session. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. That's what we assumed. I asked myself, it was estimated that the Member had spent nine minutes in the debate since the clock stopped. But I could tell you exactly - that's what they told me - only at the end of the day when everything will be examined; unfortunately, not before. We continue the debate on the amendment to Chapter 1 and to the title. I'm opening applications. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I think it's a little tragic that today we're wasting time that we could use more usefully in an extraordinary session to talk about something that happened 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago. About ten days later, a regular session is scheduled to discuss all of this in one way or another. If possible, speak more effectively because I feel that the purpose of today's debate is not to accept something, but to continue to separate. I was born in 1977 when the totalitarian, real-socialist regime in Yugoslavia was already in its mature phase and began to lose power slowly. The country was increasingly relaxed, and 13, 14 years later, it fell apart. In my time, I was able to make a pioneer vow, I got a blue hat, a red flag, I was talking about a self - administered socialist system, and I had no idea what it was. At that time, as a 14-year-old, I saw the breakup of Yugoslavia and heard rumors about democracy, about multilateralism, I liked Kramberger and - I believed in something new. But I didn't know exactly what it was and what it was that was leaving. What do I mean by that? That it is time for him to heal all the wounds of this nation. Just a minute. No declaration, no law, no event, no celebration, no deadlines, no open or closed pit. Only time will heal the wounds, especially by putting people who are not — as directly as indirectly — under pressure; people! While as a nation, we remain burdened and will remain forever. We are all heirs of the real socialist system together. After all, there are people in a number of Members of the Communist Union, and I believe they are not ashamed to have been members of the Communist Union, because they have fought for equality, solidarity, tolerance among nations. After all, the speaker of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Janez Janša, was a member of the Union of Communists and I do not think he is ashamed of this. My father was a member of the Communist Union, and I know he's not ashamed of it. Because they both fought for the rights of workers, for equality, for solidarity and for understanding among nations. We are all heirs to World War II and the horrors that occurred during World War II; we are all heirs to postwar beatings, and we are all heirs to sad and wrong decisions, when the domestic forces, in order to resist partisans and national liberation fighting, decided to accept the Nazi flag and under the Nazi flag and pledge their allegiance to Hitler. We are all heirs to all those people who suffered on the Golem Island. Everybody! We are all heirs to the abuses that took place during the time of communism and we are all heirs, including the democratic transition and retreat from power, for which we can together be proud that our country did not need violent acts, needed not a revolution, but a mature and democratic transition from one party to a party system, that the Union of Communists matured and democratically decided because it understood the time that the time of the single party system was at the end and that another time came. And all these people are part of that historical consciousness that we all carry in here today. I myself see no problem with the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism precisely because it condemns all totalitarianism, and I would say more broadly, condemns all abuse of political systems, abuse of human rights. And it can go back centuries and centuries. We can stop in the Middle Ages and condemn the Inquisition, which has been - something other than a totalitarian system based on one religion itself, in one truth; we can condemn abuses, totalitarian abuses of democratic systems or so-called democratic systems, and we can also condemn totalitarian elements of democratic systems today because totalitarianism or abuse of the political system, in order to beat human rights, has not ended in 1991, but continues today. Go to China, go to Africa, according to some estimates, go to Europe and go to the United States of America and find human rights abuses. So let's be aware of this, let's be aware of this today, that in 10 or 14 days we will be talking about whether Roma have the right to their saints in Slovenian municipalities, and remember this whenever we talk about cultural wealth, tolerance and coexistence between us. Friends, some of my -- I can call them at least -- don't insult me if I call them that, too, friends of the SDS -- I know they understand that -- we also understand comrades and friends and friends in the ranks of Social Democrats and we understand everyone else. There's no point in splitting up where you don't have to. We better roll up our sleeves and work together for the well-being of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u52	Mr Grimes, you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u53	My procedural proposal is to ask the services to make a list of all the laws to deal with the economic crisis tabled by the SDS and those 63 special measures, some of which would not stand at nothing, would only save the country's money from the first to the last, or from ignorance, or from political prestige, or from arrogance, out of pride, to the last. In this light, if this pile were on the table in front of you, of course, your words would only sound as funny as they really are. So much so that it's clear who gives priority to whom. For a year we give priority to facing the economic crisis, and for a year you consistently reject all the constructive proposals of the SDS. I'm sad that it is, but it's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u55	During this debate and also in preparation for this meeting, I have repeatedly asked myself what they really expect and what they want me to do with this agenda item. So far, I have voted in favour of countless laws, but if you want to, for the first democratic constitution and for laws that would really and actually correct all the injustices that have occurred on behalf of the previous regime, I don't know what else. One set of recommendations, resolutions, we have adopted statements in this House. I accepted the forum, the highest forum of the party, the declaration of delimitation between the communist regime and the Democratic Republic of Slovenia. All the time, I've inherited some rejected regimes, do things, etc., but I've tried to do my best in the spirit of understanding what changed the regime in 1991 and 1990, and that's why we went to our own country. Now they're still reading to me. I don't know what's going on. You just won't be able to wait for something: to ever admit that domesticism, belogardism, treachery is just a consequence, something that was before, the so-called revolution [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, Jerovšek, VOS was created substantially later than advanced people and advanced forces, both right and left in Slovenia, to establish an anti-imperialist front of the people, and one of the fundamentals was the need and commitment to fight for a change in the social order that was unjust. I know that there are debates now among historians as well, how to separate the revolution from the national liberation fight and what the revolution should be and so on. But I am the revolution that has led many to a better piece of bread, to a more just distribution of certain things, not condemn. I condemn everything that could have caused the victims in the name of this revolution and so on. From where they recruited from the richest institution, that is, churches and some traitors who fled, not Slovenian citizens, not Yugoslav citizens, because they had bloody hands and so on, this is a question that you can still consider me an heir. But you will never hear from me that you would support that a noble act was what the fairies waged during the war and preached that the partisans were Communists and compared them with animals, mostly with wolves and so on. Before going to the front, they were blessed by them and their weapons with the slogan, "In the name of Christ's wounds, partisans should die." You won't hear it from me that you'd ever support it. But that's what he's been trying to tell you all the time. I'll go back to what I first started. Trying to dissuade or reduce the role of the national parliament is not a noble act on behalf of the ideological struggle and some of the values you have here. We have clear roles and definitions for national parliaments. It is absolutely - far from not agreeing with decisions, whatever they are - of the European Parliament. However, as with the decisions of our Parliament, many MEPs or citizens and citizens in Slovenia as well as in other countries across Europe do not agree whether they do not understand them or think they are a little strange and unacceptable decisions. But that's the way it is in democracy. It can't be any different. That is why I want this House to maintain the role and the attitude that follows and also the responsibility to take on this. For if we do not take responsibility for our decisions and hide behind the decisions of someone else, then we are not worthy of authority. So that if someone tells me what you expect me to do, what else to do - more than accept laws, declarations, resolutions and so on and that you can't attribute any crime or treason to me, I will also consider changing my views. Just what I'm talking about, but not what I'm talking about. [[...]] [[Advertising in the hall, incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u56	As far as I can remember, Mr. Anton Anderlich had the floor. Lord Jerovšek, you have fallen into his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u57	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] He named me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u58	Yes, maybe back, but it wasn't, it was a bickering that was not allowed in Parliament without the President's permission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u59	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] He named me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u60	Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u61	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. The Group tabled an amendment to the Declaration on awareness of the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism in order to make the Slovenian public aware of this content of the declaration at all. For what the coalition has adopted on the working body can be defined as a declaration on the positions of the coalition to a half-lived history, not a resolution of the European Parliament. We, if we want the title of this document, which we are considering today, to be consistent with the content, then we need to adopt the supplement that we have proposed in the parliamentary group and give the text behind the forecast sentence if we want the Slovenian Parliament to take note of the European Parliament resolution. If this text is not available, we cannot talk about getting acquainted, but about the coalition's position on this act. It should be noted that this resolution of the European Parliament was adopted by 535 and voted for by 535 MEPs, only 44 against it. This is said to have been adopted by more than 90% of the European Parliament's resolution, and all Slovenian MEPs, including representatives of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democrats, voted in favour of this resolution. Here it must be found that the coalition is very dual in this case: one face points to the needs of Europe and Europe, the other face on the same themes at home. In fact, it is very difficult for us to have such a coalition in the country today. In my opinion, even the matter is worse, not only have the parliamentary parts of the European and Slovenian groups voted in the same parliamentary groups and will vote differently, but the representatives of the Slovenian authorities are very dual. The President of the Republic, the President of the Government abroad, is lighting candles, laying wreaths, saying shocking and compassionate sentences, such as the President of the Republic in Srebrenica, as President Pahor in Gdansk recently said, and at home for the same or similar acts of the same or similar regimes, all of this is ignored as if nothing had happened. No one attends the annual ceremony or the anniversary ceremony - nothing. At home we go this much closer and pass through all these matters and graves and mark a quiet passage and ignore these acts, which also occurred during, say, World War II or after World War II. External acts are attended, but not at home. I'm guessing there's no expression of compassion. On 10 July, the President of the National Assembly, on the basis of a resolution of the European Parliament, which was adopted only two months earlier, had a resolution on Srebrenica, had a very sympathetic address here and called on the National Assembly to a minute of silence. And on the basis of the same act, the European Parliament's resolution, now that we also have before us the call of the European Parliament to mark August 23 as the day of the victims of totalitarianism and autocratic regimes, this matter has gone completely unnoticed. I would like to recall that on 17 July, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party addressed an invitation to the President of the National Assembly to do the same, as the Slovenian Parliament had said and called for a minute of silence, at the first meeting of the National Assembly held on 23 August. Unfortunately, we are now having the first September meeting of the National Assembly, we are considering a resolution of the European Parliament, which provides for the proclamation of 23 August as a pan-European memorial day, which did not take place by the President of the National Assembly at the beginning of the meeting. At the invitation of the Slovenian Democratic Party Members and the Slovenian People's Party, he did not even respond. Unfortunately, everything that is happening in the regulation of our postwar history is also going very badly. I think we're going to have a 12th or 13th amendment to the War Violence Victims Act after 1995. Some Members, who are the sign of the National Assembly, have participated as members of the coalition in all amendments to the Law on Victims of War Violence. The Constitutional Court has found that all twelve or thirteen corrections have so far been unconstitutional. What the coalition is now proposing as a solution to the Law on Victims of War Violence is also unconstitutional because it does not follow the spirit of the constitutional decision and not the content of the constitutional decision. Regrettably, some of these parliamentarians have participated in more than a dozen amendments to the Law on Victims of War Violence, including lawyers. I don't think that sharing in solutions that are unconstitutional with them so many times can be an honor. Unfortunately, this totalitarian spirit continues. You rape victims and relatives of victims with solutions they disagree with, which they do not support, and something similar is also happening in the National Assembly, because the power of the coalition is so great and so unreservedly used that it does not look either at European documents. Probably also because this spirit is moving forward, you cannot adopt a European Parliament resolution condemning totalitarian and autocratic regimes, because this should actually be denied. But from the debate it was somehow felt, that was actually the position of the sending groups that totalitarianism from nation to nation was different. It is said that there are totalitarianisms of "variethos flores", that is, they are different, which are, I don't know, totalitarianism, which are human. There are no totalitarians who are human. As long as parliamentary groups consider themselves democratic, such views, it is difficult to expect any progress in understanding, especially in relation to those who have actually suffered the victims during this period and after the second world war we are talking about. Unfortunately, the Slovenian death industry is no different from other industries of death, and it is likely that Members of the National Assembly could have come to know this long ago when the first law on victims of war violence was passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u62	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that life is the days that await us, not the days that have passed. From the story of the European Parliament, a struggle has moved to the Slovenian Parliament, trying to divide the nation again. There's a cultural battle going on. He thought that the time had come today, as the Remembrance of Hribar had said, that candles should be lit on all sides with respect, with one piet, no one should have any reason not to triumph nor for fear, but apparently I have made a grave mistake. Each of us needs to see how each of us works on these issues every day. It is not how it works when it is in front of a camera, when it is on television and when the current Slovenian right thinks that on this topic, which it has been sharing for more than six decades, it can collect cheap political points with its demagogic. Let's do it in one order at a time. The Slovenian Members present in the European Parliament have supported this resolution, on all sides, and this is obviously an original sin now, rather than being happy and proud of this small step towards the debate. And now that one matter has been carried out by the European Parliament, the pope is also expected to be repeated by parliamentarians in all other parliaments across countries. They did not do so anywhere other than in Slovenia due to political needs. And that's the message. The European Parliament has adopted a number of good things, and for Slovenia there are also many bad things, but I do not want to re-decision and debate these matters, which are within their competence and have already decided on them. August 23rd was supposed to be a day of memory. I agree. I have to say that I acted with respect that day. What about those other proponents? There was a ceremony in the castle of Reihenburg on this subject, all those who sat me down this morning, "reading the Levites", did not see at this ceremony. Ladies and gentlemen, where were you when it was necessary not to speak when there was a need to prove an act? Second. Once again, the story of what had happened before was a chicken, it was an egg. I know and the historical facts insist that fascism, Nazis attacked Slovenia in 1941, so they shot hostages all over Goreńska, that in Slovenia these totalitarians received co-workers - who was a co-worker, is also known - and that the war ended with the liberation of Slovenia. And to throw it all into one basket easily, ladies and gentlemen, it's not going to work. If they are dead, I am convinced that if there is any other world, that they have long gone by, and the problem is that we cannot get away with it, especially in politics, because some are constantly looking for an additional source of unexhausted divisions, hatred and discord. In my congregation, I know a number of villages in which wartime events have taken place, such and different, but people in everyday life have no more serious problems; simply what has happened, we condemn everyone, everyone who has died deserves a worthy memory and a fifth that politics because of their own [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The need to generate this over and over again from decade to decade is simply unacceptable. [[...]] I think we're gonna light candles today to a quiet memory, but apparently some people want to salt their wounds. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Master Master. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Let me introductoryly say that I will support this amendment of course. In fact, the Slovenian People's Party is one of the proponents of the proposal to support the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which condemns totalitarianism and calls for the opening of archives, the establishment of a pan-European documentation centre for victims of all totalitarianism, and the proclamation on 23 August for the pan-European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of All Totalitarian Regimes. The primary purpose is to admit to the victims of Nazism, fascism and communism that they were and are victims that are understood and expressed human compassion. The Slovenian People's Party sincerely supports the European Parliament's Resolutions, but without any additions, without any prefaces or introductions that would alter the tone of this European Resolution. For as far as it is suitable for virtually all the countries of the European Union, it should probably be suitable for us, Slovenians. I don't think everything was as different with us as it was elsewhere. In fact, what is the reason why the parties in the coalition cannot support the European Parliament's Resolution but only want to get acquainted with it? Is this really just because of the sharing of the powers of our national Parliament and of the European Parliament? Is there really just one reason or another? I'd like to know! At least one particular reason why! Which text, which segment of this European resolution is not acceptable or diction is wrong, is not correct. Is this perhaps point 6 where it reads, I quote: "The European Parliament regrets that 20 years after the breakup of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States still unjustifiably restricts access to documents that are important for individuals or necessary for scientific research. "It calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services, although it is necessary to ensure that this is not used for political purposes. And when you're here today as a reason why we can't support the resolution, but we can only get to know it, you're giving some formalistic reasons, it doesn't seem appropriate to me - that I won't use any harder words. And I would like to add something else to this consideration on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. As already defined in the 1994 congress resolution, we respect all those who fought against Nazism, Fascism and communism in the People's Party. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also strongly oppose attempts to condemn all participants and supporters of the partisan struggle for extrajudicial killings and interwar and post-war revolutionary violence. It is also unfair to condemn all members of the Communist Party for these acts. The actions were planned and committed by specific individuals from the leadership of the party and intelligence organisations, who should also be responsible for their actions. Some still live today. Most members of the partisan movement who have decided to fight solely because of the ouster of the occupier deserve only recognition and a respectful memory for their actions. Equally, it is not acceptable for the Slovenian People's Party to condemn all members of domesticism and other anti-communist organisations for swearing to the occupying party and treason. Individuals are responsible. However, the vast majority of anti-communist formations have engaged in a sincere belief that it is only by protecting their loved ones against revolutionary violence and killings that have taken place in a mass way, which is now proven to be a historical fact. Therefore, the flat-rate conviction of all anti-communist movements, which unfortunately continues, is a great injustice that has been committed and is happening to thousands of conscious Slovenians and their relatives, which we sincerely regret in the Slovenian People's Party. I hope that the time will soon come when we, as a country and a nation, will be able to judge our history, especially because of our future and the future of our children. We're running out of up and down Slovenians. Many of these were on the partisan and anti-communist side. And let's be respectful of everyone. I sincerely believe that the European resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism is the law. Above all, it is essential that it and our common social acceptance and understanding introduce a dimension of forgiveness. Forgiveness is not a legal category, but a moral one, a human one. And that's actually what this is about; that we can apologize and forgive. All the Members gathered here today, each of us, on our own behalf and on behalf of the people we represent, we apologize and forgive, and we conclude this story for ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u66	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u67	Nicely greeted! We both probably agree that we are not the legacy of any - excuses. And now here we share again ours - yours. You defend one another, we should defend the other. We are also forcing citizens and citizens and citizens of our Republic to do so, and that is not good. That is why I think that this meeting is absolutely unnecessary, because the document adopted by the European Parliament has been adopted, we agree with it, our representatives in the European Parliament have confirmed it and I do not see any need for us to discuss it now. Obviously we will, because the wish was what it was. I have great respect for the victims of all totalitarianism, and certainly not those who have caused these sacrifices. And perhaps a lot of people in Slovenia cannot understand some of the issues - and also a letter from the Forum for Goriška, which they proposed that 26 April 1915 be the date that Europe should accept in order to remember totalitarianism. And why? Because it began at that time, fascism was born, and then there were great powers, France, England, Russia, a party to the document that somehow triggered these horrors. The coastal people experienced fascism for 25 years, then there was a bloodbath in World War II and so on. If there were no fascism, if this evil hadn't been born, we probably wouldn't have talked about postwar killings, talked about the abyss, or even a lot of things. I've made myself aware of the resolution, and that's enough for me. I know the content of the document, and I agree with it, but I think about it this way: as Yugoslavia was made up of different nations, different republics, so Europe is a conglomerate of different nations, different historical facts and so on. This needs to be taken into account, but it is very, very difficult to round up all these problems and compare us with Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, when Tito very clearly resisted information and more. We could talk about this a lot. Someone said here today that the interpretation of history can't be the right of any party. I agree with that, but I would like to ask if we would be so concerned with clephasism, with Nazism, as with communism in our country, then of course we would be different. If we had ever attended a memorial service at the Holy Ur, Bazovica, a memorial park in Trnov, where 2,300 victims of recorded, fallen in Goriška, Primorska in World War II, if we had ever recognized the role of partisans, the Liberation Front, the National Liberation Front, and so on, we would have contributed greatly to calming down and would also have prevented the division that we will encourage today by our debate. They say history in our country is a left-wing job. If that's true, then ask Dežman if he knows this book, a book where photos taken by whiteguards, fascists and Nazis were taken, where is the photograph, how they cut the heads of partisans and more. Let us also discuss this when we have gone to this area. I truly regret that the opposition is prompting all of us to force this meeting to prevent citizens and citizens from thinking and solving the problems in the economy and so on. I think that this perversion is unprecedented, typical of many, because this meeting has been proposed by one of the parties, certainly not positional ones, and I think it is unnecessary. I accept the resolution, I will not support the amendments, and it is an ad acta matter for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u68	Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The resolution has a problem of being too general, we have not been able to participate in it, we have not been able to influence its text, and although it is full of sublime words and sensitivities, it lacks many truths that work for me disabled to the point that I cannot confirm it as such, but I am pleased that I have learned with it that I can tell today why I do not agree with the content - I think in the part that is not there. I will certainly not be able to list everything, because there is always an opportunity to forget some thing and here is the sin of this resolution; that is, it forgets the crimes of democratic authorities that have also occurred during and immediately after World War II. This resolution does not contain nearly a million dead prisoners of war who have been left to starve by democratic systems in captivity. In this resolution, it is not under the flag of the Srebrenica crime democracy assisted by the Dutch members of the military units there, etc. In this resolution, there is no thirst for the Catholic Church on Slovenian soil, which generated a fratricidal war by recruiting into the housewives and never apologized for its assistance at the time in such a way. These are the shortcomings of this resolution, which amounts to all totalitarianism, whose crimes I doubtless condemn, I do not agree with them and regret them to the extent and in the work that has taken place on our soil, I sincerely regret, and it was not difficult for me to bow down to the victims of not one and not to others, and I have done so many times in my life without big words and when I thought it was necessary or I was at it. It cannot be overlooked that one part of the fight against totalitarianism in our country binds itself to collaboration and tries to fight totalitarianism or against communism to relativize, not to say, to forget that it was a national issue and that the consequences of many crimes by liberators were actually caused by occupation and collaboration - in the form of revenge after an unjustified, unjustifiable war, however. He forgets what happened before and what happened later. Equally, of course, totalitarianism that worked on our soil, with that in the Soviet Union during Stalin and Italy during the Fascism, which did not begin on 23 August, with which it was to be forgotten that at least fascism began its march in the early 20s and that the Slovenian nation felt to this extent that, interestingly, in Primorski, it had forgotten about the civil war and had focused primarily on this fascism. It is similar in Styria; he was left behind - I would say - fighting totalitarianism and the Slovenian people there resisted Nazism, the German occupationist. It is therefore problematic to throw everything in one basket, to simplify and generalise to the extent that, of course, a matter is silent, and the things silenced are interesting and those for which I cannot applaud this resolution of the European Parliament and would not support it if I were there or if I asked to support it as it is; there, if I was a Member or here today, when it is expected of me. That is why I will not support the amendment, which does not remedy these shortcomings of this resolution, which are extremely important and go in the direction of changing historical facts and putting them all in the same basket. Yes, and what is interesting is the fact that no European Parliament endorses this resolution. There's probably a lot of reasons for that, but I'm gonna count those two I see myself. For the first time, bad conscience is due to a lack of content. The European countries that do not confirm this are aware that this resolution does not say everything and that what is important is missing to distinguish the situation in the 27 countries that have historically been and cannot therefore be placed in one box. Secondly, no other country has so far afforded such a debate, within which its own sins of one and the other would hang on the great European or even wider world bell. The sins of another country, in my opinion, are not discussed like this. They try to deal with the closed doors themselves if they can, but most of the time they don't talk about it - ask the French, they don't allow conversations about what happened with the collaboration in France, even though tens of thousands were shot in the form of extrajudicial beatings. The only difference was that they were returned there to their relatives so that they could be buried, and with us those killed after the war were in silenced graves. That's the only difference. But the French don't discuss it. Those who had been reading the Saturday Work Annex a long time ago could listen to the French’s attitude toward this problem. What am I trying to say? That in this loop the opposition from two parties has fallen into this broad debate and within the nation's accusations and expectations of the defence of some crimes or whatever - but all within our totalitarianism, our national liberation struggle, without having to take on the property of the Slovenian people what has happened, the last months of the war on our soil and immediately after it, without critical reflection in terms of understanding and recognizing first the causes of everything that has happened, and then the consequences that have arisen that I do not even say at the moral-ethic level when it comes to the survival of the nation and when the struggle for life and death has been the only choice for that we have not disappeared within the nazifascism, which, of course, are those who have tried to save their lives as they say, have. We saved our loved ones, but as a nation, we would have died later if those who had helped them during the war in the form of national treachery had won. And it's not true that we just condemn domestics as guilty and that we generalize them. I deeply believe that there have been many of them, as has been said, deeply convinced that they are doing the right thing in those situations. When they saw where they were, they couldn't go back because the death of the family was threatened, a burning house and so on. But: The proponents never clearly condemned the collaboration, but today they are trying to justify it by fighting totalitarianism or Communists of that time. And in doing so, I would recall just one more interesting historical detail that during and immediately after the NOB until 29 November 1945, it was not possible to talk about the fight against the totalitarian regime, but then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and within that the crimes of any - during the war and then, of course, the victorious sides after the war were committed. So I think that today we are without necessity starting this story, which will be shared over and over again, but I believe that the Slovenian people are slowly getting tired of listening to this and that way and that they are actually interested in how we are going to live today, how we are going to live tomorrow. I don't plead for it to be forgotten, but the readings were enough. It is time to talk about how we can better and better solve the problems that plague our day and that will affect our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u70	Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a feeling that your opponents of the adoption of the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism can also reluctantly set the task of protecting someone, or a period, or some movement. I don't think there's really any need for this, because anyone who isn't guilty of the acts caused by the communist regime, I'm sure he has a clear conscience. I am sure that they can live and that they could also live in their mental peace. But I also know of people who did not have a peaceful conscience, and I also know that they were very hard to live and suffer. And with that, I imagine they've already paid a lot of fines. There were difficult times, difficult circumstances, and they found themselves in it. As far as it is concerned, however, it should be noted that the national liberation fight, or the partisan fight, has certainly contributed to the faster crackdown of the tyranny of Nazism and fascism on Slovenian and European soils. At the same time, it also contributed to the final rounding and regulation of the Slovenian territory, in particular in the entire area of Primorska. Unfortunately, however, the national liberation struggle, the partisan struggle being abused by the Communist Party for its ideological purposes during World War II alone, and in particular after it. The fact is that a certain part of the population also cooperated with the occupying party. However, the wider part of the population of so - called collaborators was certainly misled and turned against the revolution in the great tribulation. Of course, such a form of cooperation with the occupier is worthy of conviction. Even worse, however, it is imperative that all violence be pronounced after World War II against all the so-called collaborators of the occupying party and, in particular, against all those who have not been willing to the new regime. I am convinced that the Association of Fighters for the values of NOB Slovenia should also make a clear milestone between the main objective pursued in World War II, namely, the fight against the invader, and those goals pursued by those protagonists who used the national liberation fight to carry out the socialist revolution. The Partizan fight, I must say, has been taken advantage of by our neighbours. If we look at Koroška, they could really use a partisan fight when we had to organize and go to a new republic, the Republic of Austria. It is also happening in Italy, and the partisan fight has been used to close the matter as it is. As has already been said in Croatia. This noble partisan struggle was then used for such purposes. Some were very crafty, without much condemnation, while Germany was unable to do so. But the Germans proved themselves. And this legendary painting of Mr. Willy Brandt, when he bowed to the victims, showed his greatness. I would like to see that with us all those who participated on either side would be able to do so much power and bow to all Slovenian victims on any side. I therefore accept this resolution as an introduction, a small step towards getting things done in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u72	Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! I take today's debate on the resolution already adopted as a contribution that the horrors of various totalitarianism will never happen again and that we will all somehow accept the facts that are evident from our discussions. I will quote the famous German philosopher Hanna Arendt from another book than my colleague Franco Juri. I will quote from the book The Sources of Totalitarianism, which is a large book, 600 pages. She is a philosopher, at the same time a theologian of Jewish origin, and she devoted ten years of her work to discussion and research on totalitarianism. I think her concluding thoughts are quite plastic, and I hope they can get to life for all of us. "Totalitarian ideologies seek not to transform the outside world or transform society, but to transform human nature itself. Concentration camps are laboratories in which they test changes in human nature and their shamefulness does not concern just prisoners and those who are controlled in accordance with strict scientific procedures. There is no problem with suffering, which has always been too much on earth, nor has there been a number of victims. Human nature is at stake alone, and even though these experiments seem to have failed to change man, but only to destroy him, and in these created conditions, in which the nihilist arrogance of "homo homoni lupus" is consistently realized, we must remember the urgent limitations to an experiment that requires global control to show the final results. It seems that the totalitarian belief that anything is possible so far has only shown that everything can be destroyed. Yet, totalitarian regimes have stated and revealed in their past that there are crimes that humanity cannot punish or forgive. When impossible has become possible, it has become an evil that cannot be punished and forgiven and can no longer be understood and explained by the evil motives of self - interest, greed, consciousness, hatred, a longing for power and fear. Anger, anger can't avenge them, love can bear, friendship can forgive. Like the victims in the factories of death or the holes of oblivion in the eyes of the bloodthirsty are no longer human, so the latest type of criminals extends even beyond solidarity in human sinfulness. Page 552." Fighting totalitarianism is not easy, but even less easy. The study of totalitarianism is difficult and in my opinion it is not only in the domain of historians who, at the time before the adoption of the European resolution and after the adoption of the resolution, were most frequently advertised. I accept today's debate in the National Assembly and only understand it as a contribution to the broader debate that was launched in Slovenia. I miss the views and reflections of a number of sociologists, philosophers, psychologists, theologians, anthropologists, political scientists and many other experts who could, by their conduct, contribute to the enlightenment of such a wide and complex subject matter. Despite the fact that the resolution is short and seemingly simple, it contains a number of inconsistencies that can easily lead to a trap of generalisations, so we are quite reserved to such and similar texts - I personally am cold. I'm afraid that the debate will only lead to a flimsy point at these or those to trigger a wave of accusations without tail and head. It will probably trigger division on these and those and misunderstandings of backgrounds, ways and procedures, may trigger hatred, which is not good. Understanding victims is most important because victims are important. It is important to be aware of the suffering of specific people; Janka, Jožeta, Janez, Majda, Mary, Mojce, and to be aware of all those particular tragic lives, sufferings, pains, losses and fates. Consciousness of all the consequences of the horrors is important. It is dangerous to label individual totalitarianisms without the indication of time periods in the process of change. I condemn all those who have participated in these many seas, all those who have forgotten about the individual. I will never forget that my mother was in Ravensbrück camp, that my old father and uncle were in Gonars, that my mother's cousin was in Rab. I will never forget their testimony, and I will always condemn those who have done so. I admire and wonder over and over again where all those who went to the partisans and fought for the freedom of the Slovenian nation have gathered courage despite such a great enemy. Among them were my mother and father. Commendable are all those world policies that have managed so much political will, hold and courage to justify and acknowledge and condemn these and similar actions, including Brandt, Putin, Merklov. We have condemned several times, the state of Slovenia and individuals of Slovenia, the Dahav processes and actions in the Kočevsko Horn and, last but not least, all postwar killings, both Stanovnik and Kučan. I think that we have written a lot about this in the National Assembly in the past since 1995 and beyond, engaged a lot of experts and that we have somehow come to terms with this. And where are those who could have condemned the collaboration at least on a symbolic level without doing so? A small, tiny step. What does that mean? The countries differed and still differed, and there is no way that they can be equated with all sorts of things, as history has taught us that there are just times of crisis that breed shifts and totalitarianism of all times and species. If this resolution is just a political candy for some European countries - what can we do in our Parliament in view of the fact that it has already been adopted? Let me be a little more specific. The National Assembly produced a study, which you have all already discussed; it deals with a series of issues, was based on surveys, answered by as many countries as possible, and we have found that most of the countries in this resolution have addressed and dealt with it. Unfortunately, the study does not contain an opinion and views on how this is addressed in Denmark and Finland. This study has demonstrated a variety of ways and procedures for dealing with the many other resolutions being addressed by the European Parliament. All adopted are published online and in the Official Journal of the European Parliament. In the past year, hundreds of similar resolutions have been addressed in the European Parliament. Let me mention that the German Bundestag did not have a special reaction, nor did it wish to discuss the resolution. Similarly, the Dutch Senate did not consider this document in Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden and England. I would like to see a number of resolutions on labour law, labour law and employment discussed and discussed. I would be happy to use all this crowd to solve the problems that we can only anticipate, as the consequences of the crisis will only be the best and weak. Let's think about Moore's current employees. And let me finish with Jason, who says, "Don't leave the past or the previous one. It is that we are fully committed to the present." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u74	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I have little difficulty, given that there are only two colleagues sitting in this Chamber who have been in the time we are talking about today, one year old and the other three years old, and we are all still born far after the war, and of course our discussions must be based on historical sources or testimonies, so I am satisfied with the text and content of such a revolution as this European revolution, which is principled and general, as a member of the wider European family. However, I do not agree, of course, with the Slovenian version of this resolution, which has not been finally proven today in addition to many of the debates that have been held in recent months, even with the introduction made today by the applicant. Much too much was this introduction impatient and far from cultivating tolerance and convergence, but I am optimistic and I still hope. There were too many words from the so-called anti-communist vocabulary, I brought you six booklets from 1935, 1935, 1937, 1938 and 1939, such anti-communist literature, which was published every fourteen days, was a magazine for spiritual initiative and enlightenment. Many of these sentences or links can be found in this booklet and also in this debate that is taking place today, but as I have said, I am still optimistic, and I still hope that the resolution that we are considering today has no purpose in addition to condemning all kinds of totalitarianism and authoritarian systems, including today's, to modify and deny certain clear historical facts. For example, to somehow disappear from our historical memory the day Germany attacked and occupied a paradise state and to give generously and generously to the occupying forces both in the occupation - I stress, occupation - as blackmail and sending thousands and tens of thousands of patriots to concentration camps by Slovenian traitors and collaborators. Moreover, in order for the historical memory to gradually take over the fact that these collaborators and traitors tried to save us from communist totalitarianism with the help of German and Italian fascist and Nazi forces. This would indeed be a precedent for the reversal of historical facts. And in this direction, I have been listening to discussions and discussions over this resolution in the Slovenian space for the last two months. For no European country during World War II has been as long-lasting as it has been to a large extent co-operated with the invaders who occupied their territory and carried out unheard of violence against its population, as was the case with Slovenia - according to the historian, Mr Janko Pleterska. Thus, such a general resolution at European level, allowing politicians and political parties of the European Union to decide to debate in political bodies, as well as our National Assembly, to align and abuse different concepts and tools in a self-service manner, does not lead to reconciliation and awareness of the dangers of authoritarian systems and practices; also today. Just the opposite. In principle, while condemning the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes that were full of Europe in the 20th century, we, in Slovenia, are trying to concentrate mainly on the violence of the communist system, without distinction between these systems in Europe, while relativising collaboration. So once again, take it, you can come to me, I have 50 such books, and you will see how it happened before the war, when there was no communist violence and revolution between war and post-war fighting, how this anti-communist fight took place on Slovenian soil. With that attitude, you want or you don't want to change the historical facts. The inter-fascist coalition between the Soviet Union, Great Britain and the United States of America is being overvalued, as we place the Soviet Union through these discussions on the side of the occupying party, when it is compared with fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, the resistance and the partisan movements become communist revolutions, and the members of the collaboration are honest anti-revolutional fighters, who have fought together with the invader against the worst evil, which has been repeatedly highlighted today, communism. Thus, this explanation of the resolution that the armed struggle of the coalition political forces on the part of fascist and clerical totalitarianism is the least absurd. And that is exactly what we have been able to listen to intensively for the last few days in Slovenia. More! Such a way and approach and the content of the debate deviates from the principles enshrined in this resolution, which you yourself say should be adopted by the National Assembly. There are only three things I will quote from this resolution. The resolution itself says that "it is not complete and that there is no completely objective explanation of historical facts. That no political body has a monopoly on the interpretation of history," and finally that "political interpretations of historical facts cannot be enforced by majority decisions of Parliament." So the resolution itself says that this is a compromise text created by reconciliation at European level among the heirs of Eastern European and Western European totalitarian and authoritarian systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u76	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we have repeatedly heard the claim that we do not want to condemn totalitarianism. I don't know where it came from or where it came from. At least as far as the Group of Members is concerned, I will quote again what I said at the presentation: "We really condemn all forms of totalitarianism, including communism." I don't know what else to say and how to say it, except, of course, what you want and who also has, as I have mentioned today, always some internal political goals and content hidden behind it. The conviction was clear, it was loudly stated, and I think that a constant repetition is that the coalition, including the party Zares, does not want to condemn totalitarianism - you think this will happen if it is 100 and a hundred times repeated. Therefore, I repeat that in the Group of Members we have indeed written down and said that we condemn all forms of totalitarianism. Of course, the proponents think that this is only one way to achieve this - by confirming and addressing the European resolution on totalitarianism and consciousness. For this reason, I am becoming increasingly clear today: because, for some of these claims, I repeat, the internal political objectives. For you have long claimed, even through the media and on the public stage, that we will show Europeanism only by confirming this resolution in Parliament. When we took our time and asked other European countries, through the research department, how it was done, it turned out that nowhere in any European Parliament had been particularly adopted or specifically debated on this resolution. Such a debate has been held only in the Committee on European Affairs of the Estonian Parliament. I ask you today, and I want you to look me in the eye, because a month ago, four weeks ago, five weeks ago, you said this on all levels - that this is the only way we will be able to express our disagreement with totalitarianism in Slovenia. Now it turns out that's not the case. And a lot more like that, I'll say, manipulations were present today in the debate. Finally, the chairman of the committee said, and he was very determined to act if the coalition demanded or demanded that the resolution be deleted. This amendment is not in session today, this amendment has been withdrawn, but you have gladly used it to show for some of the purposes behind it. Just like in the case of why the questions why the Huda Cave is closed. Why the Huda Cave is closed - you just wanted to frame it for ideological reasons. These are not ideological reasons, it's not fair that you take advantage of this in such a way, unless, of course, you look at the pedigree of those mining inspectors who made this decision for security reasons - at least so I understood the matter - for security reasons to prepare certain things to keep the work in the Devil's Cave safe, in order to protect the living people. And it's not fair and it's not right and it's extremely inappropriate to ask questions like that. Because people who don't constantly read all the media will of course understand very quickly, if you do, then perhaps the coalition has stopped it again in some perverse way. This will need to be proved, dear colleagues, or some other argument as just a rhetorical question. And keep going. Again, part of the debate that we presented in the Really Group was quoted, when totalitarianism is different, but - maliciously - if we think that some totalitarianism is such that they have a more human face. This, my dears, I did not say on behalf of our Group of Members. And I'm going to read again, "There are differences, and we want to admit it, or we don't want to admit it, in the historical facts, in the levers that they've allowed, the guilt that some people have and feel about it." In the countries we've mentioned, which have a lot of different things, we've talked about these nuances. Europe can't and Europe's totalitarianism can't and this also shows this resolution, so simply put in one pot and stand. There are problems, there are problems, and this shows long-standing negotiations, and this also shows today's debates in our Parliament. There are problems in that, and that's all we've warned about, that's all. And at the end of the correction, and here I want to say that there has been a misreading that totalitarianism is always valid, and especially the tragic victims of these totalitarianisms, there has been a mistake in reading the text. I hope that this will not be used, so I am also now taking advantage of the opportunity to correct, in some malicious interpretations, so I hope that this part of the story is concluded in this interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u78	Mr. Franci Kek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment, because, as colleague Orazmova said, the opposition wants to create an impression that the coalition is against the resolution, as if it does not oppose all totalitarianism, we have heard words like we are deleting a European resolution, we want to replace it, even the equations of Ljubljana and Moscow we have received. The opposition wants to make an impression that we are acting contrary to the other European parliaments. On the contrary, the SDS wants to do something that none of the European Parliaments has done, and wants to be discussed, discussed, voted, published in the Official Journal. They took note of this resolution in Europe and that was enough. We got to know each other, too. And this resolution condemns all totalitarianism, with communism worth, including our communism, with communism until 1990. I don't have a problem with that. But we must be honest and say that not all communisms were the same, that ours was in a milder form than somewhere in the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, China. However, he is worthy of judgment until 1990. The consequence of your proposal to deal with this today is just to say again who did something wrong 60s, 70s and nothing else. Once again, the resolution has been adopted, and I will not undermine the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u80	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. No Parliament in the European Union has endorsed this resolution, but has only come to know it. I will not support the amendment because the resolution adopted by the European Parliament cannot be amended. The resolution adopted by the European Parliament marks totalitarianism of fascism, Nazism and communism. Three totalitarians are always mentioned in the debates and measured by the number of innocent people killed, human rights violations, property rights and human dignity. Fascism and Nazism lasted until the military defeat of the bloc, and communism survived in various forms and with various means until the fall of the Berlin Wall. There is not much to hear about Slovenians and the debate in Slovenia, but it is crucial to identify, identify and recognise crimes from the past, which means that symbolic satisfaction can be given to victims. Slovenia is the only country in Europe that has witnessed a number of totalitarian regimes, has experienced a regime of fascism, Nazism and communism, which has certainly contributed to different thinking, which has led people to the point that they thought differently at fate. Of course, the Church should also help to make historical facts more comprehensive and objective, since totalitarianism is not only a form of an extremely undemocratic and inhuman political system, but primarily a way of thinking and feeling, it is an temptation, otherwise one of them, but one of the most dangerous, always testing human maturity. Totalitarianism is linked to politics, power, state and system, which can always grow from small to large totalitarianism, as it is bound to spread into all times of society. Surely we do not want this to happen again, so we must constantly resist, oppress and preserve democracy as we all want. It is necessary to separate the national liberation fight and to thank all those who participated in this unjust and bloody battle, which required many sacrifices of honest and conscious Slovenians, and to bring this fight to its final victory. The postwar killings, where some who fought on the side of the winners were also victims, were not spared by the regime and must be condemned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u82	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I firmly believe that most of the important things have been said by the coalition and the opposition and that we will repeat ourselves, which will probably apply to me, and I apologize to you. So I'm not going to explain things. I'm just going to try to make a lapidar statement. First of all, in Mr Janša's debate today, I will say that in Slovenia we were the ones who felt that the resolution was so important that we should start a public debate on it, a debate in the relevant work bodies and also in the National Assembly, and that we have therefore blamed that today we have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject. We know that this is not true, because we know that the request for consideration of this resolution came from the SDS and later New Slovenia, and we know that you have requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with your signatures. If we wanted to deal with the resolution in good faith, then you would not be able to identify the differences, but would be able to identify the points of reference. And if we find the points of reference, we should acknowledge that it is by all coalition parties to recognise that all totalitarianism is unacceptable, that it is a condemnation of all totalitarianism, that it is an compassion for all victims and that it is a clear position that activities in every European country, as well as elsewhere, must be carried out, but that it is a European resolution or 27 countries, that totalitarian regimes and consequences should not be repeated in any form. These are the facts. And you make differences where they don't actually exist. You demand that Parliament adopt a resolution when we all know that this is simply not necessary. You condemn the coalition Members that we are non-European, at least as you have claimed on the home labour bodies if we do not adopt a resolution by acclamation, and we will consider that it is sufficient if we take it for granted after the examinations in two of the parent working bodies. You are constantly in the subtext bringing up views that say that individuals or parties of the coalition justify totalitarianism, justifying communism, that communism is still "slide and drag" in Slovenia and so on. These are all insinuations that are simply not real and just point out that you want to see the differences, not what connects us. I will say this: we coalition parties are required to apologize over and over again for some of the acts that have been committed in the past. You, ladies and gentlemen, with your customers have predecessors who are clearly mentioned in your programming documents. Have you ever apologized on behalf of these previous ones: even for the mistakes made, including for the collaboration that has been made, even for the fact that the collaboration has indisputably contributed and increased the number of victims, regardless of how ideologically justified it has been, we do not always ask you to do so again. Did the Roman Catholic Church, as an institution, view collaboration as unacceptable but not just the individual actions of their members? It's not! Therefore, you must understand that persistent accusations, persistent requests for excuses, must stimulate inappropriate feelings and opposition to your conduct. Especially since it's just us or me personally, we're convinced that it's been a collaboration and that this collaboration with your actions is also trying to apologize. And that cooperation with the invader during World War II was unacceptable. I know it's unkind to quote, but Prime Minister Churchill already stated on February 27, 1944, quote: "The Partizan fighters of Marshal Tito are the only ones in Yugoslavia who are successfully fighting the Germans. Today I assure you that Titus and his fighters will be supported with all our strength." The editor of the London Radio Free Europe Lord Harrison announced on March 6, 1944: "To fight Titus and the National Liberation Army means to fight the Great Britain, America and Russia. Those reactionary elements, which for any reason fight against this liberation army, will be regarded by the United Nations as enemies of the allies and traitors." Hard words, much harder than I've ever used them, but I want to say it's right to hear it. You tried to tell us today not to confess crimes in the Devil's Cave. No one said that. All post-war executions and post-war killings were confessed as a crime. But I'm gonna say something else that's gonna raise your temperature again. And you, many hidden graves, are politically abused, as if in every case it were a political account or with patriots, or with political opponents, or with Germans, to use this expression, or with dignitaries who then wanted to take the land from them, but not that at the end of the war 100,000 and more members of the various armies were flying through Slovenia, that there were also final operations here, that these operations were once grave, that people did not really bury themselves as a civilizational burial at the time, and that there were also various pits, ditches, tanks and the like, and not that they were first discovered, for whom they were actually, but in their views, that Slovenia did not only kill about 12,000 after the war, it could be 1000 more - not hold me to the word, because the historians were not yet, for whom they were actually, but in their views, that Slovenia not only killed approximately 12,000, or less - not only by the Slovenian soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not true and it would be right not to abuse such facts in the shame of Slovenia! The same is true of the fact that you want to join Slovenia in any way to the Eastern bloc, you have also tried to do so at a time when Slovenia chaired the European Union. Slovenia was not a member of the Eastern bloc. I probably know that, but many of you too, and you're simply faking it to say that in Slovenia there was the same totalitarian communist system as in the Soviet Union. And when someone says that, I say that as unacceptable, then no one hopes to publish the whole quote, but only the pieces are published so that I can be pleasing. So if we want to help each other, and if we want to help each other in particular to calm down in Slovenia, if we want to calm people down, then let us stop accusing each other and accept the fact that we are ready and facing the history that has been in Slovenia. That this history, which has not yet been fully revealed, is being supplemented, deepened. Surely this deepening will also mean new knowledge. We are willing to accept them and they are useful, but not to accuse without evidence just because they fit you in some current political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to chapter one and the title? I can see that. Check-in is on. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are now discussing the declaration and amendments. I am of the opinion that the text of the resolution should appear within the framework of the declaration, that it is precisely what we have come to know, if not otherwise, and that we recognize respect for our own work. To avoid forcing people to watch this so that they can search the text of the European Parliament resolution themselves on the Internet. There are ways to do this. That's how I fully support the amendment in this part. In particular, because of this - and this has been cited by some colleagues, including Mr Kumer - because this resolution contains certain matters which are very important and which bring about a balance in this text - give him the dignity of a document which could have been adopted by such a majority in the European Parliament. The resolution of the European Parliament, adopted on April 2nd April, refers to the September 2008 declaration of the European Parliament on the victims of Stalinism and Nazism, which refers to the Ribbentrop-Molotov or Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. This declaration has been proposed since - I have not been able to count them all, but I think that about 300 members of the European Parliament have proposed this resolution in September 2008, among the proponents is the current Prime Minister, Mr Jelko Kacin, is Mrs, I apologize, I have amnesia, Romana Jordan Cizelj - I also apologize to her for not immediately remembering her name - and of course Lois Peterle, so four of our representatives since then. They are the proponents, they have not voted in favour, they have proposed to the European countries marking 23 August for these and these reasons, and in this document this is the equation between Stalinism and Nazism. The equation of what? The equation is in the victims! About this declaration, about this resolution that we are currently discussing, also about another resolution of another parliamentary assembly, not to mention it, the public in Slovenia has never been informed in any way that would be organic. From the Prime Minister of the Czech Government, when I presented this in the European Parliament, I heard a piece of the speech a few days ago on the Studio show at 17:00. Why is that? And not to talk about it. I miss the foreign ministry, and I can explain a lot about me and what's happening over the summer, and it's still going on for me, because I have proposed one text that follows exactly what Europe is doing. However, the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union, including our Mr Žbogar, adopted this on 15 June this year, I quote: "European conscience and totalitarianism, the Council conclusions. At the twentieth anniversary of democratic change in Central and Eastern Europe, the Council adopted the following conclusions. The Council agrees with the position of the European Parliament, expressed in the Resolution on European Conscience and Totalitarianism, that in order to increase European awareness of crimes caused by totalitarian regimes, it would be difficult to achieve reconciliation without recalling them. The Council appreciates the efforts of the Member States and the European Commission in this area and welcomes the call of the European Parliament to establish a so-called platform of European memory and conscience to support the integration of national organisations and institutions to study and raise awareness of totalitarian regimes and their crimes and to cooperate with each other. In order to accelerate progress in this area, the Council calls on the European Commission to make full use of all relevant existing financial instruments, including the Europe for Citizens programme." In this comprehensive reading of these documents, and also in these conclusions, it also concerns the knowledge that all the partisanities of the given situations in the given periods and in the given countries are taken into account through such action. Thus, the resolution, this resolution, is something that is vigorously trying to make it possible both to raise awareness and to work on it. But the finalization is in the bag. Why? Because this reconciliation is probably a matter for each member individually and for all members together. At the same time, this resolution underlines the importance of protection, constant protection, human rights and the right to the dignity of every human being. It's the foundation of democracy. If this does not happen separately in each country, in every society individually, then democracy is also perfect. These aren't flossules. I repeat, I am in favour of the text of the resolution appearing within the framework of the declaration; no one will lose the crown because of this. We will all know exactly what we are discussing, and all possible speculations will be made in the context of a broader debate in Parliament. But the act that we will adopt, that is, the declaration, will contain at least the content that we have discussed - each in its own way, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I must say, quite a few words, including the grave ones, were spoken today at this session. Above all, it seems to me a very problematic insincere purpose of how we want to come to this so-called reconciliation, how we want to calm each other, especially people who are also emotionally bound to this period and who have experienced the most pain and grief. In particular, I must ask myself whether the purpose of this meeting is indeed to such extent as it is, given that none of the European parliaments, namely the parliaments of other European countries, has dealt with this resolution in such a way, and that the whole day of discussion is being spent exclusively on it - and this is the sincere intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party - to redistribute the people into yours and ours, cowboys, Indians, reds, blacks and so on. That's the whole purpose of today's session. And that's very problematic today when we're talking about wanting to take a step forward. We have heard earlier that it is a matter of concealing the real situation in the country, that it is a matter of concealing what is happening in the area of the economic crisis. It is true, but only by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party. If there's no more ideas, then that's what you have to say. If there are any ideas, it is also necessary to say that we step together, especially at a time when people need to be united, to take a step forward, but not to start immediately at the first September session with a theme that divides people again on one side and the other. We have also heard from Mr Tank earlier that we are raping public opinion with our own truth, to embrace totalitarianism and so on. I really don't know who in this House has proposed this meeting today, who wears anything and who shares the people in ours and yours. In particular, this is a slightly larger question of the younger generation, which somehow enters the real world, which is being employed, which may have been born in Yugoslavia, but grew up safely in a democratic system, and it is true that this generation also knows that the partisan struggle was a patriotic struggle, without it we do not know where this country would be today or whose property it would be, that is a fact that one or another political option wants to change at its own time. Wrong! Why wrong? Because many political parties - all political parties in this House - have already condemned any violence in their programmes, have already condemned totalitarian regimes and so on, but this is never enough, it still wants to re-create history, they want to organise public debates where this debate needs to be rekindled and divide people into ours and yours. And why, for example, is it enough to get to know this resolution, to see what the situation was and not to promote all the political regimes that have been organised in any way in the past? One fact is also that the text of the resolution in the European Parliament has been proposed by 17 Members and Members, who are mostly right-wing political options, and more importantly, mostly from countries where the post-war regime has brought the occupation of the Soviet Red Army, i.e. the countries of Poland, Latvia, Estonia and so on. That is why it is difficult for the Slovenian National Parliament, the National Assembly, at least in my opinion, to adopt a resolution that generalises and generalises history. It is also completely technical, and much has been said today that it is not customary for national parliaments to adopt resolutions that have already been adopted or endorsed in the European Parliament. And when we talk about certain differences in regimes, it is necessary to say clearly and loudly - and obviously we will have to speak these facts in Slovenia on the left-hand side of the political option - that in Slovenia and Yugoslavia we had a genuine resistance to the occupying and national liberation struggle, inter-war cooperation with Western allies and an equal position in the final military operations as well; that in 1948 we had resisted Stalin and the resolution of the information desk, which was the difference between this system that we had with us; that we had begun to build an original version of socialism with self-government; that since 1960 we had started to open our borders against the West, not only for the goods, but also for the different ideas that were coming: that we had become one of the leaders of the politics that did not qualify as the answer to the bloc's division of the world and to adopt the right, that we had also adopted the weapons of democracy and the federal alternative; that, that we had adopted at least one of the rule of the political power, that we had adopted the rule over the rule of the political system, that it, that it, that it was a multiplit. These are facts that need to be said out loud, regardless of which one of us belongs to any political option. And it is true that the regime in Slovenia or Yugoslavia between 1945 and 1990 was certainly an authoritarian regime and also had elements of totalitarianism, but was not completely totalitarian. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has condemned all forms of violence in its explanation in the light of the resolution, any loss of human dignity and fundamental rights and freedoms, as in our political parties' programmes, we find these records by all. If we were to think honestly about it, we would be done with this subject, but no, we're always going back to Parliament and dividing people in essence and fighting each other. Therefore, in my view, the most appropriate response to this resolution of the European Parliament is the consistent respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, not only on paper, dear colleagues and colleagues, but also in practice, including the rights and respect of all victims of totalitarianism, authoritarian regimes or mass violations of human rights. However, what is right is that, in the future or beyond today, we will complete the planned national assembly procedures for the adoption of amendments to the Law on Victims of War Violence and the Law on War Cemeteries, which can also be an effective response to the specific questions contained in the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u89	Thank you, President. One point first. Being a Communist in the 1930 ’ s in Italy, Germany, or later in Spain was a courageous act. Being an anti-communist in the 1950s in Eastern Europe was a courageous act in the Soviet Union. Being an anti-communist today, here, is not a bold act. It is an act of extreme and serene conformism. Yesterday, Silvio Berlusconi immediately proved that he could easily abuse a well-founded resolution, such as the resolution against totalitarianism, in the day-to-day political struggle. Yesterday, he literally declared that 90% of the media in Italy were Communist or catocommunist, meaning Catholic Communists. The Berluscones, who are very inspired by such resolutions, of course, and who abuse them for their daily political struggle, have taken immediate advantage of this and are now spreading the opinion that communism is threatening us again and that the communists are threatening us. Now it's a big bottle. I think we're all aware. Someone said the equality of totalitarianism is mainly in the victims. That's partly true, but only partially. This equality would also be comparable to the victims of non-totalitarian countries and systems that were also active at the International Chess Course II. World War II at the time of the end of World War II. World War II. Have we forgotten Vietnam yet? Have we forgotten Algeria? Or have we forgotten thousands and thousands of civilian victims of colonial wars, where neither the main protagonists nor the Soviet Union nor the former totalitarians have been defeated, but democratic states. Speaking of victims, let's be correct. When we talk about dates, let's be correct. August 23rd - why did we choose him? Why did the European Parliament choose him? This is the date of the known pact, the Ribbentrop-Molotov agreement. True, it happened on August 23, 1939. Does anyone know what happened almost a year before September 30, 1938? The Munich Agreement, which was the first agreement to open the door to Hitler to annex Austria and attack the Czech Republic. And after this agreement - what else happened? The end of the democratic Spanish Republic has happened. Who confessed to Frank right before the war ended? The Western powers, too. While the Soviet Union was still on the side of the Republic, by the way. So if we extrapolate from the context, from the historical context, and we target only one date, just one action, we create a very incorrect framework to understand all that happening and why things happened. Don't worry, I don't apologize for that pact, the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact was a criminal pact, and the criminal pact was also the Munich Pact, where Daladier and Chamberlain actually supported Hitler, and Mussolini was with him. Well, I hope we do not forget that the historical context is still important. At the end. If we are so fierce that we condemn former communisms, including Slovenian, Yugoslav communism, etc. - but as a parliament, do we have one clear conviction of the crimes that are taking place today and where we as a country are directly involved? Four days ago, Nate's army bombed the Taliban and killed some 90 Afghans among them also civilians, children, women, etc. This was just the last case in a series of similar collateral damage - that is what the democratic world today calls them. Today, crimes are taking place at the expense of the civilian population and we remain silent, and here we will spend 14 hours on a resolution that speaks of the past. Okay, let's be consistent with the past, but please, also in reality. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much, for your word, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I am also looking at the subject that we are dealing with today, as colleague Irgle said, with some emotional and time-consolidations to these events. Although she herself says that the events of half-lived history have been for me, and I believe that even for a number of young Members and Members in this House - it is not a half-lived history, but a past history, if not a long history. So this is something that at least points to one light at the end of the tunnel, which concerns these debates that we are listening to today. On behalf of the proposers of today's meeting, Cukjat concluded with, in fact, an ominous prophecy that if it supports this resolution and the amendments they have proposed it will not, Slovenia will not be united. Now, if we replace the word 'united' with an older term 'united', we can talk about one of the two political projects around which this nation has united - or joined together, if you like!One was from a recent history - Slovenian independence, and the other was this programme of the United Slovenia, which was created, will now be a little over 150 years ago. I have no doubt that the three here mentioned totalitarianism and some other autocratic regime, among them certainly Catholicism, have harmed this programme of the United Slovenia so that it could not be implemented in full. Many times, not always - many times in Slovenian history, the national component of our stay has been ignored at the expense of the worldview belief. Well, it doesn't matter now whether it was any fear of an autonomous Orthodox monarchy in the case of a plebiscite in Koroška in 1920, whether it was possible for another ideological blindness in 1945 in that same Koroška - when, I know, I speculate, I have no information about it and I will probably find it hard to get it - it was in exchange for the return of 10,000 and as far as the above number has been mentioned, the patriots speculated with Slovenian territory. It certainly went to the detriment of this country. One totalitarianism - fascism has been on the western border of our ethnic territory for 20 and more years - perhaps even further or today, someone will say - ethnic cleansing, which has also gone against this programme of the United Slovenia. The pact of reactionary or conservative forces with Nazism during World War II certainly cannot be considered a contribution to the United Slovenia programme. In short, the totalitarianism of Slovenia seems to have left quite a mark. Where did this unbearable ability to influence all totalitarianism on Slovenia come from? The answer, of course, is not simple, but we have already gone quite deep into history, and nothing will be wrong if we go a decade back. The cultural struggle was mentioned here, and this adoption of the resolution today also wanted to be seen in the light of the cultural struggle. Where does this cultural struggle come from? Long before any communist violence was born, when the communists were placed on the territory of Slovenia counted with the fingers of one hand, Catholic ideologist Dr. Anton Mahnic declared, "not reconciliation, but separation of spirits, this is what we need". And that's a terrible thought these days. Supporters of such political ideology should, of course, refrain from such statements. Reconciliation, not separation from spirits, is what we need today and, of course, the efforts of today's Members and Members of the Slovenian Parliament should go in this direction. A lot of my colleagues have already told me about it. In doing so, I would also touch on point K of this resolution, which we are talking about today. It speaks of the fact that as Europe will not be united, not only of course Slovenia, unless it is able to form a unified view of its history, if it does not recognise Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and communist regimes as common heritage, and if it does not carry out fair and in-depth discussions on their crimes in the previous century. And we didn't do it. We have not conducted fair and in-depth discussions on these crimes in the previous century. Of course, we may be trying sometimes in this National Assembly and elsewhere to start this journey, but we cannot say that we are doing this in a restructuring and with a desire to get things done. What is more important to me today is what my colleague Levanic has already pointed out that we are paying attention to not only the expressions of totalitarianism but also the resolution itself mentions, authoritarianism, because it is the seed of all totalitarianism. This evil is growing from here. And what helps us, for example, is that this National Assembly has adopted or confirmed, for example, a resolution of the United Nations on women's rights, but if, despite this fact, we can, for example, receive a masturbating, chauvinistic provocation from the President and the autocratic leadership of this committee at the time of the European resolution. What did we do? We have done nothing unless, of course, we make the right and the right decision in our daily lives on small matters. The choices from the past, which were wrong, were. It's no big deal, like Comrade Žerjav said, if there's an apology and forgiveness. And this is the way, which is right, an apology and forgiveness: let each man begin with himself. I am not sure that in this process of reconciliation is the left-hand side, so to speak, the one who must now take the next step. I have also mentioned myself who is the one who somehow introduced this cultural struggle, who is the one who must regret his wrong decision now, because only when someone on the other side hears regret can he forgive himself. Regret on this side was heard - forgiveness, I hope it follows, if not sooner, another time. However, I hope that we are already in the course of the day, because the next two items of the agenda that are ahead of us are exactly the ones that can be the pebbles in the mosaic that will lead to reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u93	Thank you. Allow me first to express my deep respect for what Mr Roberto Battelli has said and done. For he has proved by action not only at the OSCE, but also, and especially today, that he is indeed a European. In fact, he has explicitly supported our amendment and thus a resolution on European consciousness, which, as some have already stated, covers without exception all the phenomenal forms of totalitarianism, Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and communist regimes, and has thus proved that everything measures with the same vats. How much I miss this about you! Look, in this part where he talks about totalitarianism, this is really a resolution about the past. But in the part where it speaks of European consciousness, this is still a resolution on the future. Because it explicitly highlights the difference between the tragedies of the past and the current free democratically united Europe and its values. This is exactly the difference that this Parliament has never been able to make. He has never accepted any declaration or anything in this direction. And the resolution is given to all victims, without exception, which is a major and also the only European Petet act. Sometimes it's really nice to be a member of the SDS. Not only has this resolution in some way set a valuable framework - and that is what I had in mind when I first suggested that it should go to Parliament and then also to an extraordinary meeting on the symbolic day, 23 August, because that was my original proposal. And you can imagine how happy I am to have the opportunity to talk about this today, but especially because I am a member of the SDS, who sincerely condemns so much Nazism, both fascism in all its forms and all postwar totalitarianism. And we can all be honest about it. But you have a problem showing them in two cases. Of course, when it comes to postwar events, you freeze or, as Ambassador SD said, "you're cold" -- if I quote. But even when it comes to the beginning of World War II, you have severe logical problems. Previously, two of your guys referred to Bazovica and the TIGR. You know, the awkward situation is in the next story that I can prove with a lot of witnesses at any time if necessary. In Kranj there was a beautiful monument for tigers, abandoned in the previous regime, the grass grew, it was dirty, no one visited it. After the city municipality of Kranj took over Demos in Kranj, we cleaned it up, arranged it beautifully, pietically, as it was to be a gift to the first real victims of the Slovenian fight against fascism, and organized an appropriate ceremony. That's when one of your colleagues from the biggest government party, a senior party partner, went crazy, insulted all of us who were there, spat on the floor, grunted, and then left. You will not believe it, for a decade later the same man was the chief speaker at the same monument, after the Cranian authorities changed and the transitional left became the authority of the congregation of Kranj, and with his finger pointed to us as advocates of fascism and Nazism! Hey, good morning! But who cleaned up that monument because it was a monument to a sincere, ideological battle against Nazism and fascism? We've got him! Where were you then? That's why I'm telling this story because it so perfectly symbolizes this deception when you abuse the heroic fight against two totalitarianisms of Nazism and fascism whenever you want to justify your own actions or your own defenses as at a given time. How non-European that is, how non-European that is! As the numbers put you on the lie alone, because what one colleague misquoted from the biggest government party, Mr. Potrč, quoted on the committee as correctly quoted the Vice-President of the National Assembly, when he said they condemned the killing of 12,600 patriots - I quote from memory, but it explicitly said "domestics". Yes, I agree, there were people, there were no more winners and losers than at the end of World War II, then every matter should be judged by the court. But where are all the people of God? Because on Slovenian soil, they were killed by very credible estimates, there are many different numbers and until we dig them all decently, which is a civil standard, to raise them from where they were buried alive or destroyed in some holes and to bury them in a common grave, with names and surnames, that people know where the grave is. This is 2000 years of civil code, only in Slovenian cultural death has this been lost somewhere. And despite the fact that the exact figures aren't very reliable, they're moving from 130,000 to 300,000, like the worst I've ever read in a book somewhere. Do you have any idea how many domestics there were? As much as it said, for one division, and for 10 to maybe even killed, let's hope that number is just too much, 30 times as many people. And you only regretted those. Why? It's the pirates. In fact, it is half the pharaoh - based industry to justify what happened at that time. That's no excuse, because it's already a mission, on the wrong assumption, there were also domestics, for God's sake! But where are all those girls whose kitties were counted there at the entrance that were buried alive in the Devil's Cave? Where are all the civilians? Where are all the foreign troops? And that went silent, because it's all genocide. The killing of foreign troops is punishable without obsolescence under ratified international treaties even then, a political genocide which is in fact the essence of post-war political developments on Slovenian soil, and is a crime that is not obsolete under international law. This bush is really about the rabbit, and because you're getting away with it, it's so very non-European. And look at what is then said in an apology: 'to challenge the resolution, because there are no time limits in it and because it is a misunderstanding of circumstances and methods'. Now, let's just have two. For the first time, as a member of the SDS and as a Democrat, I condemn every totalitarianism at any time and in whatever way it has emerged without any time constraints and this is a European norm, as also stated in the European Declaration on European consciousness. But what I can't understand at all, and that was justified on your part, is that I have a problem. I have a problem with the fact that I cannot understand the circumstances and methods that young girls could live in the grave pit, I cannot understand that people have undressed to the naked, attached to the barbed wire, and then some of them were shot, some of them were thrown into a pit, and eventually they blew the ground on them, that God knows how many days in the worst of torments. But I really don't understand these methods and circumstances of post-war events in Slovenia and I will never understand them. But you know what your problem is? All of Europe will never understand that either. That's your problem. And because you are operating on this notion of misunderstandings of circumstances and methods and that there are no time limits, you are simply proving with each of your further discussions how highly justified our comments have been that this challenge to this resolution is non-European. Each European Parliament, those countries that have ended up with unilateralism, with a totalitarian regime, with any unilateral regime, has, by any declaration, resolution, law, whatever act already, set a valuable mark, if you wish, on the existence of that period backwards and thus opened a single starting point for further action. It was some sort of general reconciliation act if I use that term. In Slovenia alone, this has never been the case, but the number of deaths on Slovenian soil, the number of fatalities since World War II, is significantly higher relative to the number of inhabitants than in any other European country! From this point of view, all those comparisons you were making and all those parallels were just as non-European as you are today trying to hide your eyes from all of this and put the debate somewhere else. Once again, it is totally non-European that this European resolution on European consciousness, which opens the perspective for the future, is to be rejected and replaced by the fact that, of course, two laws are to be adopted as a pioneer, by voting and on top of everything, as some statements show, that some who were co-proposers were not even aware of the amendments - even by deception. People of God, is this European?Oh, my God! Here, once the vote on this amendment, which contains the text of the European resolution, and on the amendment which provides for its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia to become our official document, then it will truly be seen who is European and will vote in favour of this solution and who is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u95	Presidents, I ask if the debates can be directed in this direction, and this is my proposal to know clearly who they are. In the last debate, I heard quite a few readings, including me, because it was said 'your problem', and in that case, I think I also have the right to a replica. But if not, I ask that when such findings are said to be clearly addressed to whom they are assigned. Otherwise, the evidence is unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u96	I agree with you, Dr. Luke Yuri, but unfortunately I can't ask what the debate is. But I also believe that it is consciously so that the replica would not be possible. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u97	My dear friend Luke, thank you for this intervention, I have also intended and will also express my indignation at the debate of Mr Grims. I think that the opposite is absolutely contrary to what I would have taken as an honest intention to deal with the resolution. To overcome the differences that exist in Slovenia's national memory and to build on these foundations, in respect of differences, but also of respect for pain and suffering, and to build on these foundations a Slovenian consciousness that will be the foundation of a new Slovenian future. They say the paper carries everything. A young woman on paper trusts the most valuable secrets of her heart, paper often proves what we know and even who we are, paper is the best evidence in all court proceedings, but paper cannot do what the heart can. And if we go into this debate about European history, about Slovenian history honestly, then I don't think we can talk about paper, but we can talk about our hearts. It helps us not to have a European resolution, not a domestic statement or a stone, in which we will carve out the password to the victims if we are led by hatred, as we have just seen it manifested by Mr Grims. It will not help, because it will not heal those wounds that actually exist in this nation's memory and if they are responsible for this pain and the suffering of the partisan or domestic species, then we should go into this debate differently and show by discussion the pieta they deserve. I would like to remind you of some password worn by the European Union, this password is united in diversity, this password just tells us how varied European history has been - not the 20th century, but 2000 years and more. How different were the experiences of nations, cultures, cities, and families! Let us learn that these differences are painful and very intimate. I come from my own family with a very diverse experience, not to describe it in detail, but what I do know is that I will always, as a son of the partisan heritage, admit to someone else that he went into some fight, in accordance with the best intentions of his heart, because of the characteristics and legality of the environment and the education he received. When I formed my political consciousness in the 1990s, I was convinced that I was a Communist. And I find it difficult to agree that communism and Nazism are the same because one bears the idea of how to ensure a just society for all and the other, how to ensure the supremacy of a race. I said that for provocation, not to give you the right, my dears. In short, in this Slovenian history, precisely because of the pain it brings, let us allow a variety of experiences and let us acknowledge very intimately that these are not things that we should be talking about today at the threshold of the second decade of the 21st century. Today, before Slovenia, there are challenges that must unite us and I would be happy to enter this debate with a sincere purpose to end it. Unfortunately, the discussions we are hearing today do not reflect this sincere desire. I think Slovenian history is great. I will teach my own sons with my own view of this Slovenian history, but not with hatred and a desire for vengeance, but with hope and respect and understanding. It is because, before the new generations, the greatest challenges of this nation may be in all of its history, not just the people, even the planet, and I think that these challenges require a different approach to all of us. European history and European pain does not begin with Nazism or end with communism. Our joint task should be not to end up somewhere in the distant future, but to end it as soon as possible. And let us build what was the mistake of all the regimes of the 20th century to ignore the desire of the human heart for freedom; the need for a community to live in an open and connected society that recognizes differences and is capable of living together. I am sure that Slovenia can do this wisdom.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! As a representative of the Government, who has already given her position on today's topic, I am listening to the debate and cannot go back to what is actually the word today. Many words were said about who respects victims, who do not respect them, who condemns crimes, who does not condemn them, who supports them, or does not support them, or condemns totalitarian regimes. But let me remind you, this is not the topic of today's point ahead. The declaration we are talking about refers to a resolution already adopted by the European Parliament. The European Parliament has condemned totalitarianism and the amendment we have before us is talking about whether we will support such a resolution in the National Assembly or whether we will familiarise ourselves with it. It may sound legalistic, but the difference is in this detail. It's a matter of procedure. The process is not merely formalised; the process is the foundation of democracy. Clear and predetermined rules of decision are the basis for democracy, otherwise it is anarchy. And in this case it is necessary to do this, such a separation. What is the difference between supporting the declaration, supporting the European Parliament's resolution and taking note of the European Parliament's resolution? The European Parliament resolution is a separate act of a sovereign authority at European level, at European Union level, of the European Parliament. In it, Slovenia contributed its share in this document. All Slovenian Members in the European Parliament supported this resolution. However, it is necessary to know that this is a resolution adopted by Members from all the 27 Member States of the European Union and that, as such, it is the result of a compromise that takes into account the diversity of cultural, political, historical events in all these Member States. As such, this document was adopted at European Union level, of course, and was also supported by Slovenian Members, as I have already said. However, as I have already said, this is a document of the European Union and the question on the table today is whether it is more appropriate for the National Assembly to make such a document known or, as proposed by the opposition parties, to support such a document. Support for such declarations or resolutions of the European Parliament is not normal. It's not something that happens every day. In this debate, the numbers were served on how many resolutions Parliament has adopted in the last few months before the six-year holidays. This document is not even supported. Slovenia is a full member of the European Union, has full-fledged Members in the European Parliament, and these Members have fulfilled their responsibilities in a responsible manner when they have voted in favour or if they have voted against this resolution. Slovenia has therefore done this part of the job. The task that Slovenia has before it by the text of the resolution is to familiarise itself with the resolution; and that is what the Republic of Slovenia is doing in the National Assembly now quite a good time. Should this resolution therefore be supported? This was also an essential question to which the Government replied in its position. The government doesn't think that's necessary. This, on the other hand, shows even some subordination of our national Parliament in relation to the European Parliament or other parliaments of other Member States. As has already been said today, and as has been presented on the Committee on Internal Policy, we can see from the comparative analysis that the other parliaments have not paid such attention to this resolution and have not considered it at a level nearly as high as that discussed today at the plenary session of the National Assembly. As I have already said, the declaration requires only that parliaments get to know it. That was done. And what has already been highlighted several times in this debate is that no other Member State or Member State has expressed its support for this resolution, because, as I have already said, for legal reasons this is neither necessary nor normal. However, if the National Assembly expressed its support for such a resolution, it would in fact recognise its own weakness; a weakness in the sense that it is unable to make one critical, five-year analysis of its own past and that it depends on the European compromise adopted from the Baltic to the southernmost part of the Adriatic Sea. Is this the way Slovenia and the National Assembly want to show their citizens? The government doesn't think this is the right way. For this reason, we believe that it is more appropriate, if the National Assembly considers that the debate is about whether a person does not condemn crimes or who does not respect victims, if such a debate is to be held, then we shall do it alone in this Parliament, sovereignly as an institution in the Republic of Slovenia, and take into account all the historical, local and temporal circumstances that characterise that country. And let us not rely on the compromise that has been adopted in the context of the 27th Treaty in Brussels. If this issue is as important as it seems from this debate, then there is no need to take the crumb. For this reason, the Government’s view is that, by adopting the text as proposed and drafted on the Committee, the National Assembly has more than fulfilled its duty and that the support of the amendments that have been tabled today is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr France Cukjat applied for the floor or on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, I did not want to disturb the debate on the content of the resolution on behalf of the applicants, as the Rules of Procedure allow. However, since it has already been mentioned a number of times before as an argument against the consideration of the resolution, it is precisely that Parliament does not confirm the resolution that this is not a legislative document in this respect and that this is actually pointless. However, since the Government's representative has now come to an assessment of the functioning of the National Assembly, I must also give my opinion. First of all, I would say that the National Assembly has repeatedly addressed similar resolutions without any problems and adopted a declaration of support for documents. In 2002, we supported the United Nations Security Council Resolution on the Israeli-Palestinian dispute and, by such a document, the Interparliamentary Union resolution on the fight against terrorism. You didn't have to. Last year or, if you will excuse me, in the previous term, on the proposal of the then President of the Commission on Human Rights in the National Assembly, we discussed the Council of Europe Resolution against Violence against Women. That was not necessary either, but we thought it was wise, and we also expressed our support for this resolution by means of a declaration. I think that the National Assembly can address any political issue relevant and also take its position on that issue. This does not mean that we are subordinate to the European Parliament or any other institution. It would, however, be subordinate if, in the opinion of the Government, it waived such a right and did not consider or adopt a similar decision. It is probably more important in parliamentary democracy how Parliament feels about the functioning of the government than what the Government thinks about procedural matters and the functioning of Parliament. That's it, Mr. Government Representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. He asked for Mr Tanko's word on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, you are today a representative of the government. You probably know the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. You probably know that the branches of government in Slovenia are separate and that the National Assembly is an independent branch of power. And any interference by the Government in the views of the National Assembly, in what the National Assembly deals with and in what way it deals with the National Assembly, is extremely inappropriate, and it is unacceptable for any of the executives to instruct Members about how and what we should do and how and what we should do. Since the President did not intervene in this debate by the representative of the Government, he should, because he should protect the integrity of the National Assembly, I suggest that the President-in-Office not allow such debates or discussions by the representative of the Government on the way in, the content of work, the decision-making in the National Assembly; on what is appropriate for the State Assembly to consider and what is not. Mr Cukjat said that the National Assembly had already addressed 4 similar declarations, all proposed by then representatives of coalition parties, all proposed by those who are now representatives of coalition parties: Mrs Potata, Mr Borut Pahor and Mr Kacin. All were discussed by the National Assembly, and he unanimously accepted everything without a vote against it. No voice against it! And no one has objected to this debate. Today, when we consider an act of the European Parliament, it is suddenly found that someone is not responsible for something, that it is not reasonable, that there is no need to discuss it and so on. The National Assembly shall discuss all matters for which the conditions for hearing and decision-making in the National Assembly are met. And please, honourable Presidents, do not allow or allow any representative of the executive authority participating in these meetings to no longer discuss such matters as the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, that was your opinion. I believe that I have conducted the meeting properly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government has the right not only to be invited but to express its views on each item of the agenda. He's got a chance to sign up at any time. And Mr Škrlec spoke only of the Government's views; neither taught nor demanded or prohibited what the National Assembly should or should not do. Your observations are your own, and I think Mr Škrlec has done the right thing and there is no reason to interrupt him, even less so as to warn him now. Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our generation has been deprived of many truths. Therefore, the resolution that the European Parliament has drawn up and adopted is also the final basis for the slow conclusion of these difficult topics in our country, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party. That is why I think it would be good to give support to any changes to such a resolution, because it gives us a good opportunity to get away after so many years. This is also our duty if we are to continue to be equal members of the European Union. The resolution respects all victims of totalitarian regimes, in our case all those who fought against fascism, Nazism and communism. With the victory over all the totalitarianism of the 20th century, Slovenians have only lived freely and independently in the independent country of Slovenia. Today we have faced great challenges in how to solve the great problems that have arisen in our country, how to solve the crisis, how to help our citizens in these difficult times. The country of Slovenia and the Slovenian people need a single policy today to get out of the crisis, but they do not need a division from historical-ideological contradictions. In order to better focus on today and to take care of our youth, who will succeed us, I will support this proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Today's debate, I do not wish to offend anyone, but I am afraid that perhaps even in some way the transfer of some has brought me back to one very important confirmation. We have a 91-year-old grandmother living with us at home in the White Land who, in those days, listened to the announcements of the National Assembly meetings, said in white, "Yes, I think you'd be there in the National Assembly..." - That's what she can tell us, at least she can tell me. But here she meant that almost no one among us was so old that she couldn't be a mother to almost every one of us, that at the age of 18, she became a mother. She personally experienced what fascism meant, what the partisans or those who helped them in any way, and what suffering was contributed or caused by domestic traitors. In her case, the newly built house, which she and her young husband built, burned you, burned you down, took the man out of the village to a camp in the Mediterranean Sea. She stayed alone with young children, five-year-olds and three-year-olds, and fled to the neighbouring village from the fire, from burning to the good people they accepted. The fact is that those who ever go to the White Land, or those who live there, are aware of the clear historical facts and the preservation of the values of the national liberation fight, as we remembered on Sunday in Montenegro the 65-year-olds of the establishment of the Slovenian National Liberation Council. There was practically the first Slovenian Parliament. On Sunday we were reminded of this by Comrade Janez Stanovnik, President of the Union of Fighters of Slovenia. And I doubt that anyone here would object in any way to the fact that he is a fellow resident at his venerable age, that he is some kind of phenomenon, a protector of the Slovenian nation. He also made it very clear that there is obviously a desire that some would like to review history to hide the betrayal of patriotism and criticize partisanism. He even said that he was being called or called to court for his statements. I can't do this alone right now, I'm too young to judge in any way, but I believe our grandmother who's been through this. As such, the white landscape is of particular importance for the creation of Slovenian statehood, so I am especially proud to be a member of the National Assembly, elected directly and also at home in the White landscape. Our fellow magician. Vasja Klavora said in Montenegro at the 65th anniversary of the SNOS in February: SNOS as the supreme representative and legislative body of the Slovenian national liberation movement and later the People's Republic of Slovenia acted as the first Slovenian parliament during its existence. The first SNOS meeting is a milestone in the formation of Slovenian statehood and an important step towards parliamentary democracy. He also said that the liberation struggle was based on the ever-present values of freedom, independence and national identity. The liberation fight remains an expression of an indestructible desire for the survival of the nation, and this is also evidence of the ability of the Slovenian people to stop the worst trials and genocides. In the White Land today, people are facing another problem, the economic crisis, the problem of unemployment, and this is also a major problem of survival. Somehow people expect us to help them as much as we can. However, I must say that I am sorry that today I must even say that in companies whose owners are people who are close to the right options today, people who are also close to possible some church institutions, people who are not only close to the left but also the right ones, but here today we are all together, and we must help people who need help, not those who are listening to our debates today about this, us, those who were not yet born during World War II, except with the exception of those who have experienced this. Today I myself will support the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and, as the Government's representative has said, so much and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Kontič said in his presentation that the crack that the resolution was supposed to remove was deeper. And he said with such sweetness that it was obvious that the parliamentary group was happy that the cracks were increasing the distance between us. And all of today's debates, virtually everything, maybe one, two exceptions on this side, testify to the fact that this is a political plan. The resolution speaks of the memory of the victims of three totalitarianisms, but it speaks only of the civil war, which, fortunately, only took over the Ljubljana province. But you're all condemning us, Styrians, and everyone else. Mr. Stannik, who was mentioned earlier, is evil in Slovenia, that we want the politician to wash away the sin of betraying his people: we, Styrians! When our parents suffered and sacrificed themselves for partisanism! And look, this is why the government's rejection of the resolution is shameful, it's duality, it's hypocrisy. At the same time, it proves that this regime, I must say that it is a regime, with what is happening today and that neo-communism is crawling across Slovenia and that the defence of communism and part of Stalinism is incredible. And this is also demonstrated by the government's views, as I said last year's democratic spirit of Mr Pahor, in 2008, August 23rd, in the European Parliament as a day of remembrance and years ago, in a resolution on reconciliation, you rejected it on your main council or a conference of the party with eighty votes against and only five of them were given to Pahor for this policy. And you broke his democratic spirit in the regime. That's why this counterpoint goes: in Gdansk, you bow to August 23rd, and at home you celebrate Hitler - Molotov's agreement with boycott this day, as was celebrated by the prewar communists, whose heirs are ideologically, consistently, to the attack on the Soviet Union. And unfortunately, they're attacking us, too, so we should apologize for the collaboration. Who should I apologize to? But the messengers are not guilty of anything because children are not guilty of the sins of parents whose ancestors, with their hands raised, welcomed Hitler’s occupation on August 6th. They're sitting here like this, at least keep it quiet! See, today it is grotesque to hear that totalitarian communism in Slovenia ended in 1953. Grotesque! I wonder, in whose name did my father's arrest in 1954 and several other farmers who took the train and some families of peasants on a Bled trip and on a trip to Brezje. And it was a sin for a few months of imprisonment and torture and harassment. In 1954! I can only explain all this with Adam Michnik, the famous thinker of Europe, who has also tried all these totalitarianisms on his own. He says, "A lie is an immortal soul of communism." And today you represent this immortal soul with many of your debates. For, as I said, I will tell this personal story: he was not only imprisoned three times after the war. On April 11th, the Nazis imprisoned my father. And Jerovške Street is not because I want to wash away the sin of treason as a descendant of these Jerovšeks - Jerovške Street in Maribor. Because they were always on the Slovenian side. That's why I don't accept these attacks, that we want to wash away the sin of co-operation with ourselves, treason. It's a nuisance, it's an intolerance she doesn't have, and luckily, we have Mr. Battelli here, who's basically committed to condemning totalitarianism, who said, "The same are in the victims." They're not all the same. We know who he left the most in the world and also in Slovenia. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, you need catharsis. Even the younger, this spirit of Nebolshevism, which is falling through your parties, is horrifying. You have no empathy for the victims. No empathy, and I must say that that prohibition of exposing the Hude Cave is ordered: to prevent disclosure, to prevent proof, and this is a crime that has been committed! [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] So I urge you to be five to the victims and not just talk about a civil war that happened in one piece. We're not all Slovenians to blame for this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u110	Mr. Jerovšek, I'm sorry, your time has run out. Mr Bojan Kontic spoke. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Sometimes there's no harm in running out of time. Sa, I did not fully understand everything that Mr Jerovšek was saying, but it is probably not possible to understand that either. I'm not going to comment on the crowds, but there's no point in losing words. But that's what I'd like to say and ask you a question, it could be rhetorical. The statement I made on behalf of the Group of Members certainly stands. After this performance, Mr Jerovšek, and also after the performance of one of your colleagues, we can see that the claim that the cracks that this resolution is supposed to eliminate will, unfortunately, be even wider and larger today, due to such performances.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The panellists are no longer present. Would you like some more? I'm opening time for an application. Four more have been reported. Mr. Cuckoo, do you want to be a proponent earlier? Later. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]] Did you sign up? I'll probably give you my word, Mr. Battelli, only later. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]] Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u113	Thank you. Given a very short period of time, I'll be very brief too. Comrade Jerovšek has now demonstrated the side effects of such debates - when he began to fear neo-communism again and so on. Well, before that, I described the story of Sylvia Berlusconi, who was scared, intimidated, and intimidated yesterday, but the purpose of that intimidation is to finally silence the free press in Italy. I hope it's not something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much! Colleagues and colleagues! This time, in this debate on the adoption of this resolution, I will read three testimonies to you from three different periods. The first witness is from August 6, 192: "When they had dinner, they rose up and gave their hands to their father and mother. The convict said to Dad, "See you. They left the tower. There were dads in the kitchen, Mom, Rudy, Justa and so on. Justa was in the kitchen. Rudy was already on his way to close the door. We heard the fertilization on the stairs. Back in the tower came the Osajnik and shouted loudly: 'Hello!'.. He already appeared in the kitchen outside the door of the oven and Mirko Reš. Dad was standing in the middle of the kitchen by the dial. Resh said, "Well. And so!' Mirko Reš shot and Dad was hit in the right corner. So Dad fell. 'Let's see if it's a hyen,' he asked. Then Mirko Reš turned the rifle vertically to his right shoulder and gave another shot. The bullet went through his shoulder, chest, and heart, and, of course, Dad was dead and bleeding." In 1942. In 2005 at Cankar's home. Dr. Bozidar Fink. "Sixty years have passed since something bad ended on our home land. The enemies of our freedom and national existence, who had done so much in all respects, had to leave, and had stopped fighting one another. So freedom and peace. But what freedom, and what peace? In a web of world events, the Communist revolutionary government was granted all freedom to violently rule over the people and to kill relatives who were unwilling and to kill thousands of other people. Then for decades dictatorship ruled, and people lived in fear. Such a state is not a state of freedom and peace." Well, last quote. 29. 8. 2002, Mr Janez Stanovnik: "How is it possible that in some policies we have so much evil or hatred that they do not choose the means only to overwhelm the roots of our national identity and to wash away the sin of national betrayal?" Colleagues and colleagues! I don't feel like one of those politicians who would wash away any kind of national betrayal or have to wash away. Of course, he's talkative enough. We're still celebrating some killers today. Of course, one of the discussers said that, thanks solely to the partisans, we have a free country today. Some, of course, were not all the same, not all after dinner when they ate, drank, killed innocent people in the kitchens. That's right. But some have made the sea worse. Therefore, the adoption of this resolution also in the National Assembly is only a blessing for us to finally make and leave the dead in peace and to simply end at this point. Whether we are able to do this or not in the National Assembly of this generation, I fear, given today's debate by the ruling coalition, that we are obviously not yet. I'd like to, and I'll be happy, and I'll be happy to smile if I'm wrong about this prediction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u117	I also support the support of such a resolution. No one is saying what we will accept in the National Assembly because it has been adopted by the European Parliament. But I think it would be wise to support her in the National Assembly. One point that is most important to me in this resolution is the third which speaks, stressing the importance of preserving memories of the past, because without truth and memory there is no reconciliation, reaffirms the single position against all forms of totalitarian rule, irrespective of ideological background. In this spirit, honourable colleagues on the left and right have written this resolution and are not dealing with any of the topics that our Parliament is currently employing and, unfortunately, in recent years also the entire Slovenian political space. When we look the truth in the eyes, we have an open memory of the real facts, then we will be able to meet together at a gathering of celebrations, as in our congregation in Krsek since 2001 all veteran associations have been united in all celebrations. And just as I hoped that on August 23rd, we would gather together in large numbers and focus on the memories of the victims. This is what this is meant for, and so do we, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. In this debate, which was very interesting also on the substantive side, there were also a number of arguments why this resolution should not have been supported. As a proposaler, I would also like to define these reasons on the other hand and show that they are not so severe, so difficult that it would not be possible for all of us to express our support for this resolution. First of all, it is not about the adoption or approval of a resolution, but it is only about the debate and the question of supporting this resolution. This is a matter of political will, or the National Assembly prevails as willingly as it will then show the vote. All the arguments or most of the arguments you cited against the expression of support for this resolution were somehow caught in the context of Slovenian specifics of Slovenian communism, the Slovenian situation. What has been said about this matter and what questions have been raised. These are questions such as the fact that we want the applicants to devalue partisanism, the NOB, in order to justify the collaboration that, in fact, Slovenian communism was not as cruel as Stalinism and we cannot throw it into the same basket as Nazism. These are questions the resolution does not talk about and does not go to the level of national stories, national tragedies. At the beginning, I wanted to, and even when we were preparing this proposal, we wanted to avoid going down to that level. However, since there has been so much talk at this level, it is said that the arguments against the resolution have in fact taken root or were based mainly on Slovenian specifics, allow me to deal with these reasons and comment on them and thus I will also hit on the Slovenian specific situation. The proposal to support this resolution has been dealt with several times on the working body and some interruptions have occurred. He was as depraved as he had already said, my colleague, the president of the working body. Impaired to this end that we no longer have a resolution in the final report of the resolution itself, so that this declaration, which is supposed to be adopted on a proposal from a majority in the committee, is said to be a left coalition, speaks of everything possible, but not a resolution. While he is saying that we will take note of this resolution, that this will enable us to do so, or that we will have the opportunity to learn about it when this resolution is published among the acts adopted in the Official Journal of the European Union. But it says a lot about how we have done it after 1990, that we have done a lot to correct the injustices, that Slovenia has done it easier because its transition to a democratic political system of parliamentary democracy has been established for the majority of citizens and citizens' will, on the legal path and without the necessity of violent change, which was possible, because even within a single party system they have gradually been implementing democratic changes in the postwar period and especially in the 1980s and 1990s that have made it possible. This is not what the resolution is talking about. This has nothing to do with the resolution. Nor does it seem appropriate for us to accept historical facts in the National Assembly. It is a matter of historians to tell historians how much change or transition within a single party system led to Slovenia's independence. Let the historians say that. If you accept this, then the National Assembly decides that the sun is black, but this sun will never be black. It can be concluded that the earth is flat - but the earth will still be round. Such conclusions do not alter the facts. We leave this to historians, and this is also proposed by the resolution, because the resolution is not mandatory for us, it is only a proposal for national countries to become aware that they respect 23 August and so on. Everything else has been deleted, support has been rejected and the resolution itself has been rejected, so I don't know what we have left now unless our amendments are accepted. The negative position was first justified by the fact that the resolution is a great compromise between political parties, that it was actually traded between different lobbyes, between the parties and that one such compromise proposal finally came. Yes, this is the fate of democracy if a document is to achieve as much support as it has achieved in the European Parliament, there is a need for debate, there is a need for cooperation, there is a need for compromise. And Europe can do this, and that is why I respect the European Parliament so much more. Then there were arguments, if, we had condemned all the totalitarian regimes long ago, the post-war killings of the invaders and so on. See, Germany has done a lot in eliminating the injustices of Nazism, condemning Nazism many times from the highest place, but not citing it, not citing it, but is always ready to confirm or agree that Nazism must be condemned. Of course, I never expected our Slovenian Parliament to reach such maturity just 19 years after its independence, 18 years. However, in principle, for once in his 20-year history, he should have decided to condemn totalitarian regimes, including communism. I must say that the conviction of a party of totalitarian regimes for Slovenian political health is not enough. This must happen at the highest political level. When the Slovenian Parliament, when the highest Slovenian politicians are so mature and capable, of course no one can predict. It would be a wish to do it as soon as possible. Then it was obvious that our communism could not be equated with Nazism. The resolution does not speak of an equation. But since this is one of the basic arguments for rejecting this resolution, let me say that the elements of totalitarianism had our regime not only in 1945, but also until the end of the single party system. And let me, however, say and argue this bold claim. It's not for the totalitarian regime that's essential to the slaughter, the mass slaughter, that's what I said in the introduction. No, no, no. There are regimes that have not been so mass-murdered. And the regimes that ended the massacres were still totalitarian and still totalitarian in the world. About the equation first. You know, the equation between Nazism and communism can be most talked about by those who have experienced one another, who have experienced Nazi camps and communist war camps. Angela Water, whom I saw some others admit to her some moral honesty, said it was the same. She went through a Nazi camp and in our camp she said, to a post-war Communist camp, she said there was no difference. She was also right, wrote in her book The Hidden Memories. The defendants in the Dachau trials, that is to say, the communists who survived Dachau and were then after the war, not in 1945, later, we were convicted, said that it was impossible to compare the Nazi prisons with the Communists. It's impossible to compare. But that's what they said in terms of inappropriately greater horrors in our prisons. Andrej Applenc, who was on the Golem Island, like the one who dared critically to judge our political situation at the time, said to the Goli Island: "It was a criminal activity at the top of the party, you don't kill a man, and you morally mentally cripple him for life." According to some estimates, 60 to 70% of prisoners have been mentally broken on the Golem Island. What does that mean? It wasn't about physical exhaustion, it was about breaking physical fitness, it was about Nazi camps, it was about something inappropriately more horrible -- about moral breakdown. There the campers had to torture each other and the guards could only observe and laugh. To torture each other. Such innovation in human suffering was unknown to Nazism, not fascism. So much for the equation of one and the other totalitarianism. But if our totalitarianism is not over, I will not say, in 1953, but in the 1960s, 1970s, let me say just a few words, because this is a bold thought, you can sue me, in this opinion I refer to certain things. Just some names from writing circles that were convicted of writing critically against the then authorities. Andrej Applenc, as I mentioned earlier, was sentenced in 1952 to Goli Island, Žarko Petan, during his military service in 1959 for seven years in prison, which was reduced to lack of evidence and was released after a year and a half. In 1958, Jože Pučnik wrote for Magazine 57 the article "Our Social Reality and Our Illusions" which so enraged the party that the outcome of the article was banned, seized in the printery and banned its coming out. It was followed by Puchnik's arrest, a five-month hearing and a 9-year sentence in March 1959. After five years, the colonel was paroled because of the article. In 1963 he again dared to write an article about the dilemmas of our agriculture. The prospects have been lifted. The Colonel has been convicted again. He spent two years in solitary confinement at the Age. Viktor Blažič was sentenced to two years in prison in 1976. He was especially charged with the article "Creating Is Freedom". Franz Miklavčič, in 1976, in the 1980s, was sentenced to five years and eight months in prison before the District Court in Kranj. Dear Jancar, in 1977, as you know, for one year of rigorous imprisonment. So much for our totalitarianism. Let me mention how our democratic system was reflected in the field of education at the time. Just one case. In 1972, at a meeting of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, a very influential political personality said that a decisive action was needed. Still a very influential political personality. In this action, as she said in 1972, "in this action we must be particularly clear to our opponents, to the carriers of different political concepts and we must break them." And of course, at the time, this person demanded great control in the educational sector, particularly in the recruitment of the teaching profession. And a few years later, or a few years later, a system was put in place for school principals to find candidates for the education school and to send them to the Central Committee, that is, to the political body, a list of candidates with characteristics. Here I have a list of a school, the principal who sent it then, this student and this student, as an excuse to go to the teaching profession. Here's the thing: "The ideological orientation of the family is correct, the mother was a member of the Union of Fighters." Another student, apology or support: "The mother guides the girl correctly." He knows how. Next: "The student is educated and ideally oriented." Next: "Both parents are members of the Communist Union." Next: "The family's ideological orientation is correct." And on the last page, there were great concerns as to whether she was to be allowed a pedagogical school, and the principal wrote largely: "The mother is molding the student beautifully, but the girl up to the sixth grade attended religious rituals." It's a terrible crime. "Now she's broken up with it at her own request." Another letter from the director of a promising school, written in 1975 at the municipal conference of the Union of Communists, reads: "We have a staff commission and a commission for professional guidance at school. Each commission counts three members and there are two members of the Union of Communists and one psychologist in each. For our educational professions here at this school," I won't call it, "we haven't managed to get a lot of candidates, but as far as we've got them, or, rather, we've convinced everyone of our people." And that's the most important thing. Was there a totalitarian regime in 1975? Don't let the Militia Work Manual, you won't believe it, the 1985 Police Work Manual, in the '90s. He says this is what Milica's mission is: "to collect data and other perceptions of hostile and deviant phenomena and carriers, especially when defending or spreading ideas that contain elements of urban right and bourgeois pluralism. Confronting the socialist self-government system, collecting negative comments on important political and economic developments. The manual for the work of Milica is from 1985. I'm gonna take some more time and talk about two more things. In 1978, Ljubo Bavcon and Alenka Shelih wrote the Kazen Law - a textbook. In this textbook, Ljubo Bavcon says: "In this sense, criminal law is a means of repression and a systematic fight against a certain part of the population." He quoted Lenin and based this on Lenin's quote. Then he goes on to say: "So to fight against a class which, because of its different viewpoints, opposes the integrity of existing social regulation or its constituent parts. It is a matter of subjugating individuals and social groups to the general requirements of production, division and exchange." I don't dare say these aren't elements of the totalitarian regime. In February 1990, the Federal Secretary for Justice and Administration of Belgrade, at a meeting of the Federal Assembly of the SFRJ, submitted a report on political prisoners and said: "At this moment, this is February 22, 1990, there are 332 people in prison who have been sentenced by regular courts for so-called political crimes." In 1990. And in May this year, our Justice Minister gave a report to the government on how many of our former political prisoners were approved. You won't believe it, 14.437. If anywhere, then Slovenia must support this resolution and condemn all totalitarianism, including communism. However, of course, I feel that the debate has been held in the sense of those who have opposed the support of totalitarianism or the condemnation of totalitarianism, and since it is also communist totalitarianism, it is better not to condemn anyone. Apparently, some fear of conviction, some fear, some serenity to condemn communism. Dear colleagues, I don't know how you understand this, but I'm sure the conviction of revolutionary violence that took place during the war doesn't defile partisanism and NOB in any way. On the contrary. It would've cleaned him up. Clear. Condemning a crime means clearing up partisanism. And until the Union of Fighters or all of us can convict those crimes as crimes, there will be so much time hanging over the entire partisan society. And communism. Some of you were saying that communism had different faces and you were quoting Angela Waters. I also have Communists in my family who were idealists, and then of course they were disappointed. But we know the communism that he was, not what individual, later convicted, idealists wanted. Just like he was here. And condemning the communist crimes in no way would distort or disprove those images, those ideas of communism that these fighters or those communists had, which have sadly ended in this regime. We know the revolution devours its own children. And because of this fear of condemning communist and revolutionary crimes against bravery, the fear of saying bob beans is unnecessary, harmful for all of us, for all of Slovenia. That is why I call on you once again, let us give so much courage and support this resolution. Let's back it up, that's all. Let's back it up. And given that Slovenia has experienced in a very cruel form both fascism and Nazism and communism, let us give August 23rd as our memory of all these totalitarianisms and be aware that this makes it easier to clear both partisanism and that human ideal image of communism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr France Tsukati spoke on behalf of the proposer. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. The debate is slowly closing and we can now see what it has brought. It has brought about the fact that we have repeatedly listened to how we oppose the resolution, how we do not reject all totalitarianism and we have repeatedly repeated, we reject, we reject all totalitarianism, together with communism. Finally, we have heard some specific cases cited by Mr Tsukati. I honestly believe that they're all right, and that's what happened. I can tell many more of these cases myself, and I'm sure someone here in the hall could tell you a lot of things about what happened during World War II and beyond. But is this the right way to list specific cases here? We can list them by the end of our term of office after ten hours a day. And I will say again: we oppose all totalitarianism and I expect Mr Grims and Mr Jerovšek to say again: you do not oppose all totalitarianism and give some concrete examples. Thank you very much. I can do it again because you obviously didn't understand. Do you want me to do it again? I will. Once again, we oppose all totalitarianism. And I expect Mr Grims or Mr Jerovšek, as is their custom, to rise again and say: you do not oppose all totalitarianism. Once again, we're against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to chapter one. Mr. Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It's actually about awareness of these things. All of them. And this case with the victims. I didn't make that up. It's not my interpretation. That's exactly what it says. This means that this European day is intended to deepen the roots of democracy and contribute to peace and stability on the continent. Some of the consequences of communism, discussed in these international bodies constantly, since the fall of the Berlin Wall. First, aggressive nationalism with tens of thousands of victims since 1990, 1989, 1988. Aggressive nationalisms, structural corruption in these countries. The emergence of organised crime in connection with the security services of communism, which have reinforced the existing forms of organised crime. Robbing national wealth by some elites. This occurs in different doses and intensity in all of this space. And then there are unresolved conflicts here. And in this room there are rifles, and there are kalašnikovs in closets and hidden in courtyards and stables. As a result of these things, the entire European community and the international community will have a headache for a long time and a long time. What are the instruments we fight against these phenomena? How can we help the authorities in these countries that are facing such problems, which are prevented from these forces and such forces of organised crime, etc., by putting an end to the foundations of democracy and by carrying out elections as is necessary. These are also the consequences of communism. And one more thing. These peoples and these countries have been prevented by communism from participating democratically in the building of an integrated Europe after the defeat of Nazism and fascism, after the defeat of fascism and Nazism. It was stolen from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Vito Roz, please. But you only have, I think, 28 seconds. Quick.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Although the resolution we are discussing today speaks of at least three totalitarianisms, few of the debaters or debates today have actually talked about three totalitarianisms. Each one chose his own to say his favorite. That is why today's debate on everything does not exactly make me optimistic. As far as the conclusions are concerned, they can be accepted. Of course, since this National Assembly can accept that the sun is black, of course this is not exactly what the National Assembly adopted that this country had in 2007 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate, incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on the first amendment and the related third amendment. We are moving on to the amendment of the SDS Group to the second chapter. Given the timing, I'm still formally asking if anyone wants to discuss it. [[He doesn't want to.]] This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, scheduled for half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is based on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence, within the framework of a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Miranda Potræ, for further explanation of the bill. Please. He's not here. Just a minute. He was in charge of the session. I suggest, yes, I mean, no, we must understand that he has just led the meeting and that he has the right, if not the other, to meet certain needs, so I am adjourning the meeting for five minutes and after this interruption, Mr President of the Group is coming. [[...]] I'm not interrupting the session. You want a word? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. How would you like that? Mr. Jože Tanko has a procedural word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I suggest that we do the same as the President of the National Assembly in all cases. Even when it happens on this side that someone is late, the chairman could be so aware that, because it is also important, we have been at the previous meeting, and the president has not been able to wait long enough for a representative of the parliamentary group to come forward and present his position. In cases where the interests of the coalition are at stake, you act in a completely different way. And even the President of the National Assembly, who is supposed to be equal to all parliamentary groups in the timing of the debate and so on and also in the approach, is unacceptable, and I hope that viewers in front of television audiences and the other public can give an impression of how this coalition works. It is biased towards its interests and very radical and restrictive to the proposals and to those proposed by the opposition's parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. I suggest that in all cases you are consistent and that even when we have such a small problem in the other Group of Members as it has now been in the SD, you should look at others and sometimes even allow them to stop voting when you have started the vote and even on your own account and allow explanations to be made. However, as is customary in the National Assembly and in this mandate, such things are unlikely to happen. Therefore, I propose in a procedural manner that we follow the list of further debaters, who are not, in accordance with current practice, I propose that business practice be given the following word, which is on the list. But you probably know who he is, instead of the SD, who missed the next party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I have to seriously reject these findings. I must say that I have heard such an observation, not at the plenary session, from a coalition parliamentary group, because I did not tolerate the delay. And I won't tolerate any further delays. However, I have taken into account the life situation that the person who has just held this plenary session has the right to a certain minute's rest or two to continue the presentation. This is a completely lifelike and normal decision, and it does not affect my firm position that I will not tolerate delays in representing positions. So much for that. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Miranda Potræ, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding and thank you very much, Mr Tanko, for not being able to take into account the college of some of the needs we have, both Members and Members. That's what your cultural relationship is all about. The question and attitude to the situation and behaviour during and after World War II, according to some, even until independence, in Slovenia the content concerning the real issues of rights that the country provides to individual groups of its citizens, as well as the issues of exclusively and ideological struggle for the interpretation of history. We would like the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Victims of War Violence to represent a content aimed at the fair qualification of victims of war violence and the determination of their rights, not an ideological struggle or a new content of the law that does not concern only the war period and the victims caused by war. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia already ruled in 2006 that, before three, it was not in accordance with equality before the law that the solutions recognised as victims of war violence only by the children of parents killed by the occupiers, not by the children of parents killed by partisans or allies. In the same situation, refugees must be in the same position, regardless of which warring party caused them not to return to their homes. These two unconstitutionalities are being abolished by this bill. In addition, we recognize as victims of war violence the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who were Italian soldiers, and after the capitulation of Italy, the German occupation authorities imprisoned or sent them to camps. We also recognize the right to a monthly pension in the amount of expulsions, and we recognize the forced mobilisation of the German army, which have already been recognised as victims' status, but they have not been granted the right to a pension, even though they have already been promised this right by a parliamentary party. We have initially proposed some additional new rights, which the Government has challenged because of the systemic inadmissibility of the bill, the coalition parliamentary group and the Slovenian People's Party. It has therefore also proposed amendments adopted by the parent committee with the support of the bill-makers and these solutions are no longer included in the law. First of all, questions related to Article 7 of the Law, or the right to time to which the victims of war violence have the right to account for the pension age. First of all, we have proposed a solution from the government proposal that this is up to 15 years of age. Today, given that the Legislative and Legal Service has warned us, it is not until this morning that this issue has already been decided by the Constitutional Court in 2005, we propose that paragraph 7 be deleted. However, it is also true that the time of war cannot be counted until 28 February 1946, but usually only until 31.12.1945, which is also one of the proposals. In addition, it is a matter of not taking into consideration the extension of the time taken to include the status of the victim until returning to his home, not only in his country, as such addition would introduce many uncertainties to the extent and manner of determining this new right. And since new rights cannot be recognised retroactively from 1.1.2008 onwards, this right is not guaranteed, but is guaranteed the right from the date of submission of the proposal, as is the case for all other cases of victims of war violence. We hope that the adoption of these amendments will not affect the relationship of Members and Members to the proposed law, as its essential additions are included in the law without these proposals. In its amendments, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposed that amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act, according to the motioners, should change the concept of the law and its basic content. That this is no longer the law which fundamentally governs the injustices caused to the victims of war violence by the occupiers and their co-workers for political, national, racial or religious reasons, by acts of forced eviction, forced eviction, forced exile, imprisonment, forced labour or internment, because these acts were not and could not be caused by the operation of the partisan or allied parties. Therefore, according to the motioners, the specific rights of children and refugees, as required by the Constitutional Court, should be governed by the amendment of the law, not by amendments to the concept of law, as proposed by the SDS Group. Otherwise, as part of the opposition, especially for the SDS Group, there remains still a crucial issue, which has led to the fact that this Group has not so far been prepared to support the resolution of the law, how to regulate the rights of its employees in the law. The SDS Group points out that the current text of Article 6 is controversial because we do not recognise rights under this law to persons who have voluntarily or professionally cooperated with the occupying party. We must point out that during World War II, there was an occupation and a national liberation fight, and that there was no question that there was a collaboration. In order to prevent persons who have cooperated with the occupying party from recognising the status of victims of war violence and to make the amendment of the current Article 6 of the law controversial, the Constitutional Court, which has also cited the issue of recognition of the status and rights of employees of the occupying party, cites: "...that the National Assembly acted in accordance with its powers when it excluded persons who voluntarily or professionally participated on the part of the occupying party, the aggressor or his associates from the cycle of victims of war violence. If these persons were granted such rights, this would be contrary to the generally applicable principles of international law and thus to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia," the end of the quote. In addition, the amendment to Article 6 of the Law would have provided for the identification of personal guilt, which was never the purpose of the law and would have required a comprehensive review of the decisions made so far, and for procedural, material and political reasons this would have raised new issues and many different views. Therefore, the motioners could not accept such demands from the opposition. Notwithstanding the fact that the full agreement of all parliamentary parties on the draft law has not been reached, which is certainly not what everyone would like, the coalition's parliamentary groups and the Slovenian People's Party, which have tabled a proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law, we believe that we are finally obliged to follow the Constitutional Court's decision and to equalize the situation of children of murdered parents and the situation of refugees, regardless of which party the armed party has caused them this injustice, and to recognise the right of us also to forced mobilisers into the German army, which we will have promised years ago. There is no reason to delay these decisions. However, if anyone thinks that it is necessary to reopen issues that we have not been able to resolve properly so far, on which this moment is not the majority, he can, of course, do so in the new process of amending the law. We expect and propose that a specific text, including a proposal to delete the amendment or delete Article 7, be adopted in the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u131	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! At its 10th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Bojan Kontic, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered the draft law on the basis of Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the proposer, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council and representatives of civil society participated in the work. The Committee was given an opinion on the rule of law, the opinion and amendments of the Government, the opinion of the Council of State, which supports the bill as well as the letter from Mr Vasje Majn. Representatives of the proponents, Member Miran Potrč gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed legal solutions in the introductory explanation of the articles. The representative of the Government, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, said, with regard to the proposed additions to the draft law on victims of war violence, that the Government in principle agrees with him and supports the proposed changes and additions to that part which do not affect the dissemination of already-lawed rights in the law on victims of war violence. In the discussion on the articles of the bill submitted, the main focus was on Article 1 of the bill, where some members of the committee pointed out the government's inaction in solving individual groups that were victims of violence. The representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group refused to take part in the meeting because he felt that the law did not solve all the problems arising from the victims of war violence. The proposed law also does not mention the Croatian occupying forces, which have cruelly burned and killed in Slovenian territory, as he pointed out. In the discussion below, some members stressed in particular that the law does not regulate the rights of partisans and fighters, but of civilians. This law is intended for the living and no one to condemn or declare a perpetrator of crimes, lays down only the criteria for the acquisition of rights and the fact that the new categories of victims have the same rights as the victim's. Members of the opposition challenged this equality and pointed to article 15 of the basic law on victims of war violence, which they thought discriminated against certain victims. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12 and 13 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 and its amendment to Article 3. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 2 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr Ana Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the distinguished President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! At its meeting 1.9.2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered, adopted and proposed amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence, which was submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic in the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed solutions as they take into account the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision of 9.11.2006, in particular in order to include all those persons who have been subjected to acts of violence or forced action by armed forces or other parties in the conflict. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the bill thus extends the cycle of war violence against children whose parents have died, was killed or missed because of acts of violence or forced action by other armed forces, and the person who, as a refugee, had to leave his home during the period of 6.4.1954 for a violent act of arson, demolition or demolition of his apartment or apartment, which prevented him from returning to his home for at least three months, unless he cooperated voluntarily or professionally with the aggressor. The proposed amendments also extend the range of beneficiaries to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who, as former Italian soldiers after the surrender of Italy, were covered by the German army, occupation authorities and taken to prison or forced labour in Germany, and the forced mobilizers to the German army, who already had the status of victim of war violence, recognise the right to a life pension, as already enjoyed by exiles and internees. On the proposal of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also tabled amendments supplementing the draft law and assessing that they should be taken into account when adopting the final text of the amendment. For systemic reasons, the government has therefore opposed the extension of rights to persons born to parents after the end of World War II, which is up to 28. 2. 1946, since this period is covered by other laws - the Law on the Correction of Crimes, the Law on the Fund for Compensation of War and Post-war Violence. For similar reasons, the non-systemic enlargement of the scope of rights and the inadmissible interference with the already legally completed procedures of the Government also opposes the provision under which rights should be recognised for the duration of the coercive measure or for the violent act of returning to their home, and not as has been the case so far, until the return to their homeland. It is also important to mention, by the Government, the proposed amendment to Article 11, which specifies the rights of individual categories of beneficiaries under this Act. It should be pointed out that all children who are victims of war violence are thus equal and entitled to war compensation. However, all other victims of war violence are entitled to the same extent to the rights defined by the law: health care, medical treatment and climate treatment and others, as provided for in Article 8 of the Act. In addition to the amendments mentioned above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also proposed some harmonisation amendments that have been consistent with the Legislative and Legal Service. If I finish. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the long-awaited amendment, as it is a matter of implementing a Constitutional Court decision extending the cycle of victims of war violence and improving the material situation of forced mobilizers into the German army, as they gain the rights to a life-long monthly pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Franc Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u135	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Government! The Law on Victims of War Violence, as adopted in the second reading, will of course be supported. It's late, but it's better late than never. In particular, it is the elimination of unconstitutionality in the sense of discriminatory solutions in the past, at the expense of all victims of war violence who have been affected by war in the same way as those already in law. On this occasion, allow me to tell you why there has been an unconstitutional solution at some point. It must be said that the requirement for the adoption of such or other compensation for the victims of World War II violence began in the Interdepartmental Commission in 1993, with a view to the final adoption of the Act on Victims of War Violence in autumn 2005 with effect from 1. 1. 1996 further. In the first wave of beneficiaries of rights under this law were mainly Slovenian exiles, then living more than 20,000, campers and stolen children. In the following years, the law was amended and amended several times and extended rights to refugees, exiles, who fell into the April War of 1941, to mobilizers into the German army by obtaining only the right under special law, not all rights under the War on Victims of Violence Act, disabled persons, I mean civil war disabled persons who came into law, and so on. The problem with this law is that it could be extended long ago to the categories we have included today. In doing so, I must say that our Group of Members also supported the classification of these in the previous Government, even before the Constitutional Court wrote on what needs to be done or which categories are not covered. But at that time, as has already been said today, the coalition demanded that the law extend to co-occupiers who could not prove the worst consequences of their cooperation. Of course, we could not agree to such a solution because this law does not intend to judge, manifest or accuse anyone, but merely to give certain rights to the victims of the occupations, their associates and today those who have been wronged by the liberators, the allies and so on, and we think it is the same. The fact that it took so long to eliminate today's unconstitutionality is therefore unfounded by those who say so for at least the last four years. A version such as today's and following the Constitutional Court's decision could have been adopted four years ago and peace would have been in the country, at least as regards the rights of those who only now receive it. Thus, because of the persistent demand for rights, those who do not in any way belong to them under the principle of natural law have not been granted rights, and we are therefore adopting a law so late. I am very pleased and grateful to the Slovenian People's Party that it wants these victims, which we have included, to wait for their rights to live. For when a person dies, he no longer has the opportunity to make a request and has no rights under this law, nor do his own, because these rights are not inherited, and I must say that this means a broader consensus than a coalition that can adopt this law by itself by voting itself and that it will not and I think it is the same. I also call on all of you in the SDS to support this law because it confers rights on those who have not so far and from this point of view, and that the law can be expected in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a typical pahorian law typical of this government. There is no firm position, but I am a little, a little bit there and it is evident that such laws are not known in Europe. There is no comparable regulation in the European Union. Once again, we are going here to appeal to the opposition by the coalition in order to gain some points or perhaps some votes on some other side. In fact, it's a bad marriage. The law is, not that it's bad, it's very bad. After all, it equates the descendants of those who on the side of the partisans for freedom gave their lives and descendants to those who fought against the Slovenian nation. This is not going to work, and this is incomprehensible in Europe, so there are no such laws in Europe. There is also, for example, a clause here that the German army will receive compensation. Why don't they get it from Germany? They were getting it. I was showing the documents, and I even showed Mr. Potch the document, and he pushed it away and wouldn't look. In fact, the German state paid the rent to all those who, as then citizens of the German Reich, were mobilized into the German army and that very fast, and even in the 1950s, 60s, 70s, in short, to the death of those people. Besides, where are the victims of the Ustashas? Where are the victims, those killed by the Croatian Ascension, the KNOJ, then the JNA, immediately after the war? Where are they? They're nowhere to be found. But we do. I don't know what's going on. We have a variant here, in Article 9, which reads: "to return to the homeland", which was then Yugoslavia. Then why is it valid? To where? To Saturday? That's mostly where the interns came back. On Saturday and then on to Slovenia. Is that true until the moment they arrived in Subotica? Is that your country? Is it Slovenia? It's incomplete, stupid. Or maybe it's very tricky, and that's what it's made for some deleted people to get some extra money from the country of Slovenia. You don't know what's here. In short, very strange. On the other hand, our government does not hope to demand that Italy, Germany, Croatia pay "reparations" for what happened in II. World War II, for all these killings. On 19 April 2006, the Slovenian national party filed a criminal complaint against a group of Italian nationals who were in the period II. World War I was operating in the area of today's Slovenia, against which the United Nations Commission for War Crimes in London has registered a declaration for war crimes. April 19, 2006. Nothing happened, and on 27 October 2008, we sent a query, and we have not yet received an answer. Where's Mr. Pahor? Let him do something without drawing on Slovenian resources to make him look beautiful, but to clap from his left and from his right. They won't be left or right. No one's gonna applaud him anymore. What are we doing in this country? I mean, nonsense to the end. I'd really like to know who's got this all figured out in here. And I hope, if you don't already hope for Germany and Italy to sue Croatia for "reparations", then sue the British and the Americans who bombed some of our places and killed some people, civilians, for collateral damage. Then give it to me, gentlemen! I mean, it's another "nonsens" in the work of this government, which is more every day. We're not gonna back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret that we have not already adopted amendments to this Act in the previous term, at least in those parts or in particular, in those solutions that had undisputed majority support in Parliament. We could do that in the previous term. We have also proposed several times, let us write those parts of the changes in the law that have this majority. Unfortunately, however, there was no such agreement. Of course, we would like to better define Article 6 several times, which speaks of the definition of the employees of the invaders, but it was precisely this article that made it virtually impossible for us to adopt changes in the law, even though we received then, a year ago, two, many individual expert opinions from eminent experts in this field in Slovenia. Regrettably, this Article 6 or the Article 6 solution could not be implemented; it was not possible to simplify. For this reason, we have joined the signing because we believe that some categories, which are unfortunately in previous cases, should be in the case of individual amendments and, more importantly, in the framework of the basic adoption of the law, I think in 1994, when these categories have dropped unjustifiablely. And if we take into account or look at the data provided by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the number of still living beneficiaries in individual categories, we see how in recent years, of course, due to the age of these beneficiaries, this number is falling; practically every two years this number is halved and this decline will increase in the next period. It is the duty of the state to make amends to injustices. The affected and their relatives deserve an apology, and the nation and the state deserve to stop sharing these cruel acts from the past. It is enough to serve these issues again and again for a convenient topic of political accounting. In doing so, it forgets all the real victims, forgets that we do not help all these victims, even more, all these victims are again and again in pain, must relive all the terrible injustices and painful memories of the past, over and over again, from the mandate to the mandate. That is why we say in the Slovenian People's Party that this accounting is sufficient at the expense of innocent victims. Let's at least solve those things that we find the majority consensus on. Let us bury all the victims with equal respect and correct the injustices of all civilian victims without distinction. In doing so, we reiterate that, as the first of the Slovenian political parties, we have already clearly stated in the 1994 Congress Declaration that we condemn all three totalitarianism, fascism, Nazism and communism. And since, in addition to what I have already said, the Constitutional Court has also requested amendments, we also support this procedure. However, the deadline for amendments following the decision of the Constitutional Court was already November 2007. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I would like to stress that these changes, which are coordinated to the extent that most support them, will be supported by the resolution of some people who have been looking forward to this more morally than material satisfaction for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u141	Your Honor! The Law on Victims of War Violence is one of those laws that can contribute to what we talked about at the 1st item of the agenda today at a real, practical level. So if we really think that we want to correct the injustices, to condemn what needs to be condemned, and to settle what needs to be settled, then this is a real opportunity. It is important for us not to regulate in this law what some would like to do - to reward, justify and even rehabilitate collaboration, traitors and the like. And that's what the sacred thing is. This law is one in a series of laws, unfortunately for a long time it has been debated, sought compromise, solutions. Maybe we were naive enough to get a consensus all together at this point and close this chapter. Yeah, we were naive. It turned out with a finger that we didn't want to settle some things, things remained messy. We have also entered into a coalition agreement to implement all decisions of the Constitutional Court in the first half of the year or immediately. And it is also right that what this law basically tried to regulate and had to regulate also regulate. The fact that some things are never, because there is no comparable practice elsewhere, therefore it is not possible to write this introductory work in the law in a way that, wherever certain things are tried to be regulated differently, so that even those who do not deserve it, who should not yet be compensated for it if they have been, may be military persons or civilians, contrary to the will of the nation after liberation in the path of fascism and Nazism to be rewarded. No, it's not anywhere, and even with us, I'm sure it'll never be like that. Children must be equal. Some say it's too much to blame. A lot of people think, especially when it comes to money, compensation. We have yet another debt in the debate, and once again it will be necessary to identify what is going on with the material damage and with these victims. But things are going gradually, going as well as the state can. I even think that this is a law in which there is no need to seek consensus, but it can be adopted as well as any other law that seeks to remedy the injustices that seek to ensure to those who are entitled to it, finally this status, even if some do not want these people to receive this status and these compensations. We are obliged to do so and let each one ask himself why certain definitions in this law make him difficult. What is wrong with what this law governs? That's the whole point of this question. This law regulates things that are necessary and can be arranged. What's wrong? That because of what someone would like to settle in the way I spoke about earlier and that this does not support this law, it is simply incomprehensible. So don't give these victims the impression that they weren't victims, that it was again some kind of delusional heirloom. Why are we all on this side, some kind of coalition, I don't know what it is, continuum or whatever? Because we want to regulate what all the democratic states are regulating, and ultimately we also regulate things that may not be clear to those who are mobilised in foreign armies, because at that time there was such a regime and such a situation that it was happening. I believe that the law is in the process of adopting and regulating those issues that we ourselves know need to be settled, and we are also called upon by the Constitutional Court's decision. We'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Victims of War Violence, together with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Cemeteries, is referred to as war laws. In public, calls for both laws to be harmonised and adopted with the widest possible support in the National Assembly are also made by those opinions that wonder whether, at the time we are living, things really need to be regulated, which should have been regulated, both by a decision of the Constitutional Court and by the position of some ethical norms and social justice, long ago. However, for those who are directly involved in both marriages, it is likely that now is a time of great urgency. And while it is not possible for the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence to be found to have support in all parliamentary parties to the National Assembly, it is nevertheless a time when we have joined the Social Democrats to all those who think it is necessary to accept it. And we hope that today's amended bill, along with the proposed amendment, will experience this. The story of amendments to the law began in 2005 with the submission of a proposal in April 2005. The Social Democrats' Group reacted to the text at the time with its proposal for a law because it felt that only with comments on those things that we did not agree on could the law be regulated. Nevertheless, I must point out that, in the proposed law, we agreed that the rights of children killed by parents should be regulated, regardless of who killed the parents, that the rights of those left without their home for the purpose of violating them, or that they had fled home because of the violence expected, regardless of who caused the situation. In addition, we agreed at that time to obtain the status of victims of war violence, including those who, following the surrender of Italy as Italian soldiers, were sent to German captivity and who are forcibly mobilized into the German army in addition to the status of the victim they already have, also recognised the monthly pension. Since the beginning of this proposal to the parties, we have strongly opposed the amendment of Articles 1 and 6 so as to allow the integration of the partisan units with the occupying forces and their associates to be withdrawn from these changes, and since the possibility that the employees of the occupier would also obtain the status of the victim of war violence was not excluded in Article 6. These two Articles, 1st and 6th, were considered to be no longer in line with the concept of the law adopted in 1995. If I take a little walk on dates, it can really be found that the coordination intensity was very different. But if, as of 18 April, when the bill was tabled, I say that we have already responded with a special proposal for a law on 30 May, the Social Democrats certainly cannot be considered as those who would delay the procedures, however, then we have accelerated the adoption even in 2006. Let me say that at the end of 2007, we adopted or proposed a bill that did not receive support from all parliamentary parties. She has now given favourable opinions or consent to the proposal, the Government has also proposed amendments, we have adopted them on the Committee and I propose that we finally adopt the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Victims of War Violence in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Respectable. I don't know what kind of amendment to the War Violence Victims Act is in front of us. This is an unfortunate law, which has been very clear and very harshly unconstitutional since the beginning, as it has completely excluded the victims of partisan and revolutionary violence. Unhappily, too, because, despite some necessary and beneficial changes, he remains unjust until these so far so highly discriminated against victims. The law finally recognises the status of the victim also to the coastal Slovenians who were mobilised into the Italian army and to the forced mobilisers into the German army, as well as the rights enjoyed by other victims of war violence. However, there is a law discriminatoryly exclusive to children whose parents are, under the label of cooperation with the occupier, justifiably or unjustifiably murdered by the so-called other parties. The new Article 2a does not provide these children with a symbolic compensation of EUR 834 for the murdered parent, which all other victims receive, all the other children of the murdered parents. While this is a symbolic compensation, the law is largely symbolic. For he still excludes his fellow occupationists in the way we have known him for 70 years. And this exclusion is also passed on to their children. The concept of cooperation with the occupying party, which is supposed to have criminal characteristics, has never been legally defined and has been more than used to prosecute true collaboration, to discredit and then to justify the liquidation of unwanted persons, mainly opponents of the revolution or those who were required to confiscate property. Many of the great anti-Nazis and great Slovenian patriots, including even those rebel communists who survived Dachau, were first discredited as collaborators and then eliminated. No swearing has been used as bloodyly in our past history as a fellow occupationist. Here I have a letter dated 3 May 1946, one year after the war, the secretary of the National Committee of the Land Selo near Mirna wrote to the District People's Committee of Trebnja: "On your re-call to deliver the data of those who cooperated with the occupying party, I present these three lists to you. If it's right and enough, if it isn't, we're going to write everything down from the place, because no completely innocent person, if we take a good look at history, had a war. Death of fascism, freedom of the people." Secretary this one and this one. Three lists of collaborators from a small village may not have been enough. The legal will characteristic of post-war revolutionary law, therefore, continues beyond the 1960s with the vague and vague text of Article 6 of the basic law with the anti-constitutional lex incerta. To ensure that there is no mistake, the Slovenian Democratic Party condemns very seriously any cooperation with the occupying party, the result of which was human suffering. But that is why we have proposed a serious definition of such cooperation, which deserves a serious conviction and which can only be handed down by a court in the rule of law. We have also proposed that, if you insist on expelling so-called employees of the occupation, the constitutional principle of equality before the law should also exclude those who planned, ordered or even carried out mass killings of prisoners, civilians, women and children. Our initiatives have been completely rejected. It seems that in the vague definition of collaboration, applicants insist primarily on the fact that such legal primitiveism still provides a useful tool for discrediting people who were not Communist authorities of will, therefore, a tool that serves more than just judgment to spread hatred and national disunity. Since in the Slovenian Democratic Party we value the principle of justice and equality before the law and the legal security of every citizen, we do not want to participate in the adoption of this law and predict obstruction at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much. So the obstruction was predicted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Zares Group, the position will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. After long-term coordination, the amendment of the Law on Victims of War-Violence has been introduced into the procedure of the Coalition Member and Members, including the support of members of the Slovenian People's Party, and we are more appropriately defining the recognition of the status of the victim of war-based violence and the right to material satisfaction. The Law on Victims of War Violence was adopted in the basic text in 1995 as part of a series of war laws, together with the Law on War Disabled Persons and War veterans. Initially, the law applied only to the rights of exiles, campers, prisoners, labour deportees, internees, refugees, children stolen and forced mobilizers, and then a number of amendments extended the circle of beneficiaries. The status of the victim of war violence has been forcibly displaced by a citizen of Slovenia, who has been sent by a German, Italian or Hungarian occupation forces for political, national, racial or religious reasons to camps, prisons, forced labour or internment or was taken into captivity as a member of the former Yugoslav army, who escaped from war and was forcibly taken by his parents. The victims of war violence are also children born to parents under the above circumstances and other persons who were exposed during the war to violence or forced action by the invader, the aggressor or their associates. In view of the current and thus existing regulation of the status and rights of victims of war, children whose parents, parents were killed or missing during the war were unable to exercise the status and rights of the victims of war because of the operation of NOB units, allied forces or persons who had to leave their homes for destruction by other armed forces and were unable to return. The current law therefore distinguishes between civilians and children by who caused the circumstances. And this is the part where the Constitutional Court has decided that it is inconsistent with the Constitution, since recognition of the status of the victim of war violence in civilians, and especially in children, must not distinguish which of the military forces or parties has caused the circumstances which justify the status of war violence. The proposal for a new law therefore firstly takes into account the Constitutional Court's decision to define more clearly the categories of victims of war violence, which, according to a new one, I stress that the children whose parents died were killed or missing because of the operation of any armed force, I reiterate, all the children who lost their parents during the war. The status will also be granted to persons who are refugees from the time of 6. 4. By May 15, 1945, they had to leave their home for destruction caused by other armed forces, unless they cooperated voluntarily or professionally with the aggressor. In the Group of Members, we really believe that these changes are the real foundation on which we will finally overcome differences and different interpretations of half-lived history in the Slovenian space, following all the principles of international law. Therefore, we cannot accept the opposition's biggest opposition SDS party, which, in this context, wanted to open up a series of other issues that have left us and will obviously share us in the future. The fact is that it is right for the victims of war to be granted certain rights, but we cannot possibly agree to what they expected from the SDS party to reinterpret war and post-war Slovenian history, as well as the roles of individuals who have collaborated or cooperated with the occupying party. We believe that such persons cannot receive, nor can they expect, material compensation. We will indeed support the amendment of the law in the Group of Members, because it is high time that all civilians, especially the children who have been wronged, are finally eliminated, as decided by the Constitutional Court in its decision and should have done in 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on articles and an amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment table you have tabled and has a date of 8. 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 7. Anybody want to talk? I repeat, does anyone want to discuss the amendment that has been tabled? I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Moving to agenda 3 [[... ...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Did you want to go to point two? I didn't see you. When did you get that? [[The ad from the bench.]] Dear colleague Potch, I'm afraid I've interrupted. I'm sorry if I didn't see you. It was my fault, though I have to say I've been running around with my eyes. I allow these different explanations, but I've broken it off. I can't reopen it. So, of course, there will be another opportunity for you to say what you want to say. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cemetery War in the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Miran Potræ, for a further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. With the proposed amendments and additions to the War Cemetery Act, we want to settle still open questions regarding the detection, regulation and marking of war graves for victims of war violence, especially after war-torn persons. Amendments and amendments to the law have already been prepared by the government of the previous reference, but parliamentary parties on its content have not aligned themselves to the extent that, together with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence, they provide content that would be acceptable to the majority, if not to all parliamentary parties. This was also the reason why the law of the previous term was not formally introduced into the procedure. Efforts to create an acceptable content of the law have therefore continued in this mandate. On the text drafted by the coalition, together with the Slovenian People's Party, before its submission, the SDS Group did not propose different texts or solutions. On the contrary, interviews by parliamentary parties on the possible content of both laws have made the impression that, with regard to the War Cemetery Act, the SDS Group will have no significant substantive comments. The SNS Group, however, did not want to participate in the coordination of these issues, which it also made clear to all parliamentary parties. We therefore expected that the proposed content of the law for the majority of Members and Members of the opposition was not disputed, but that it was not yet explicitly prepared to support it because there was no substantive agreement on the solutions proposed in the law to the changes and additions of ZO to the victims of war violence. They condition the adoption of both laws in a harmonised text at the same time. It is not irrelevant that at this stage of the parliamentary group they have also consulted on the possibility for the National Assembly to form a group of distinguished experts who, on behalf of all parliamentary parties, would draw up the text of a specific declaration on the past and the matter to be adopted by the National Assembly. With regard to the debate on the European Parliament's Resolution on Consciousness and Totalitarianism, it is interesting to say that, at that time, the main concerns about the drafting of such a resolution were raised in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Their views led to a further agreement on the preparation of such a resolution being suspended. Therefore, the Coalition's groups and the Slovenian People's Party have decided not to delay the consideration of that law, as they have estimated that the conditionality of the adoption of this law by amending the Law on Victims of War Violence is unacceptable, especially since the issues of detection and regulation of hidden graves are being repeatedly misused for political disqualifications and the full substantive consensus on all issues of war law has even moved ever further. They therefore decided to table a proposal for a law without the participation of the Slovenian Democratic and Slovenian national parties. We believe that by adopting this law, we are removing the reasons why the SDS and New Slovenia have repeatedly stressed that coalition parties are not prepared to acknowledge the violent behaviour of the former authorities after the end of the war, that we are not prepared to declare extrajudicial beatings as criminal acts. That we are not prepared to participate in the detection of all the previously silenced and hidden graves. That we are not prepared to allow ourselves to determine whose remains are in a single hidden grave. So that we are not prepared to provide for the fiveth treatment and burial of the dead, instead of a hidden burial place in a common grave or in a common grave of a fair and piteous burial. When it comes to nationals and nationals of other countries, this must be addressed through inter-State contracts. At the same time, the true causes of death and the status of the slain must also be ensured by the dignified text of the consecrated nature of the grave. We believe that the following essential solutions proposed in the law can provide these objectives. Firstly, in the main city of the country, a monument is placed to all victims of war and to wars related to victims in Slovenia, with a dedicated inscription of memorial nature, quote: "The country is one, given to all of us, and one life and one death. "The parishioner." Second, the remains of persons who do not have a separate tomb or grave shall be placed in the area of the Teharje Memorial Park. Thirdly, on the graves of civilian victims of war after war-killed persons, the inscription on the grave reads: "Victims of war and revolutionary violence. Republic of Slovenia." And fourthly: "It is also an initiative for the family to transfer the remains to another grave at the same or another cemetery." We agree with the amendments prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. However, we could not agree with the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. The proposed amendments interfere with the new category of graves, also provide for victims who have died or died during the war, a new category of victims of revolutionary violence and a common skeleton to propose on land that is not neutral. Therefore, the home working body of these SDS amendments was not accepted. We suggest that the National Assembly does the same. Ladies and gentlemen, we expect and want you to adopt the proposed law. By accepting it, we will contribute to the fifth detection, regulation and marking of the graves of all victims 2. We will also contribute to the elimination of one of the grounds for misunderstandings and accusations against the half-lived history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The draft law considered the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to be the parent working body. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u151	Good-bye again. At its 10th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the War Cemetery Act, which was submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic to address the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner and was therefore examined by the Committee on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the proponent with Mirano Potrč, representatives of the Government with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the State Council, the representative of the Law and Legal Service and representatives of civil society participated in the work of Obor. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, of the opinion of the Government, which supported the bill in principle, and of the opinion of the Council of State, which also supported the law. The draft law was tabled by both the Government and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group within the deadline of business. During the second hearing, the representative of the applicant, Miran Potrč, introduced a supplementary explanation of the draft law. In the debate on individual proposed solutions, the Committee members paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 1, 5 and 8 of the draft law and its proposed amendments. The debate on Article 1 and the amendments tabled expressed the explicit position of the SDS Group that revolutionary violence must also be included in the article, as it is typical that many Slovenian mass graves of civilians, those that occurred during the war, as well as those that occurred after the war, were caused by revolutionary violence. Therefore, the proposal for a law in Article 1 should mention revolutionary violence as one of the major causes of the emergence of mass graves, in addition to war violence, if it is to be credible and impartial. This was in line with the European Parliament's resolution to equalize innocent victims, as the debaters believe they are victims, not causers. They also felt that the honor of the military cemetery should be guaranteed to all those who died as soldiers. The representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group said that they believed that there had been no revolutionary violence during World War II. There was occupation by the invaders and collaboration by the collaborators. He stressed that he could not agree that material burdens were being passed on to taxpayers during such a crisis. This is unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party and therefore they do not want to participate in the debate. Following the debate on Article 1, the motion for a law stressed that the law is widely coordinated. They are convinced that he is pietic and carries within him respect for all those who are destined for him. The proposal takes into account the historical facts that there are also victims of revolutionary violence in the graves in addition to the victims of war, most of whom were killed during the post-war period. Although most graves are believed to have originated during the war, today they want to show that all tombs were created after the war. It is also intended to place a monument in the main city of the country to all the victims of the wars and to war-related victims in Slovenia and the central morgue in the area of the Teharje Memorial Park. With regard to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8, which, according to their representative of provocative nature, proposes to place the central skeleton at the location of the Orlov Summit, where the Domobran cemetery is abandoned, because most of the skeletons from the silent graves of the victims of the civil war, the choice of this location would constitute a five-way straight action. In a normal relationship, he felt that the undeniable winner was benevolent to the losers. On the contrary, the billers felt that the amendment could not be supported, not only because it was provocative in nature, but also because it did not hold that most of the skeletons of the silenced graves were by the civil war. They agree to place the skeleton in the area of the Teharje Memorial Park. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 4 and 7, but did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The current War Cemetery Act has now been in force for more than 6 years and has not been amended and supplemented, although it has already generated a lot of attention and controversy before the adoption in public, as it has today. Otherwise, an amendment had already been tabled in 2005 in the legislative process, which did not go through prior coordination and was therefore withdrawn. The current amendment proposal prepared by the Group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic covers amendments and additions to improve the current legal regime in this area. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the War Cemetery Act was addressed by the Government at its 1st meeting. 9. and in its opinion supported the proposal for a law and also tabled amendments that were addressed by the home committee and were also adopted. It should be pointed out that the Government supports, in particular, the solutions proposed in this law, namely, to place a monument to all the victims of the war and to the war-related victim in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the capital and to write on this monument the inscription of the consecrated nature of Oton Župančič, namely: "Homeland is one, given to us all, and one life and one death." We also welcome the establishment of a central hive in the Tehari area in Celje, where the remains of all those who are immersed in accordance with the provisions of this Act can be treated in a respectful manner. We also support the proposal for a text of the consultative inscription on those graves of war victims, after the war-torn deaths, who are always opening this discussion up to them to write: "Victims of war and revolutionary violence. Republic of Slovenia". For the sake of the implementation of the law, which is covered by our ministry, it is also important that the provisions of the law deal in more detail with questions relating to the crossing of remains in unregulated war graves. So all of these are changes that allow for better implementation of the legal provisions of the existing law and also allow for a fivefold attitude towards all victims. This is why the Government supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The first thing that's barely understandable to a man with as much common sense is "breathing" about civil war. There was no civil war in Slovenia during the occupation and it could not be, since no condition laid down by the civil war has been met. Above all, there was no State of Slovenia. Slovenian countries and invaders were torn apart with their helpers on the one hand and fighters against the invader on the other. Perhaps we could say that it was a religious war because one side walked with the Christian cross and the other side with the sickle and the hammer, but both are ideological symbols. If these fighters have a morale and a combat consciousness to fight for the better tomorrow against the oppressors and for their own Slovenia, this does not change the fact. What kind of resistance management technology the leaders of NOB have chosen - it is also not in our domain to judge. Apparently, they chose a successful method - they defeated the invader, changed social relations, and gained absolute power. Mr Žnidaršič's arguments from DeSUS that it is unworthy in the middle of the capital to set up a skeleton are, of course, weakly, if I forget the obvious political prejudices, its implementation reveals as if it disgusted the Lord with being something similar to the Cafilery, but that is not the case. However, in the case of the bone-remembrance case, the unknown hero was shown how the unstately, stateless, Bolshevik Cardelian anarchoid spirit controls today's Slovenian state scene. For this reason, in our country, national problems, which concern in particular relations with neighbours and events on Slovenian soils in times when we were not yet a country, are tackled by dilettarian, anarchic, localistic, self-administrative, and above all completely non-state. It is illustrative of such people to expect them to understand that we were until the destruction of K.U.K. monarchy citizens of Slovenian countries within the Austrian Empire. Then we temporarily lost our countries or countries and were citizens of various foreign countries until the occupation, and during the occupation we were confused, lawless, disoriented paradise, without qualified civilian leaders and without State tools. The authorities shared the Roman Catholic Church with the invader, and the Communist Party, which was the only one with a clear concept and a capable structure to start and implement the NOB. But everything that happened between occupation and the state was not a civil war. Likewise, the state structures, including the various parliaments of similar assemblies and finally the government, had no legitimacy until the so-called legislative or constitutional assembly meets after the emergency situation has ended and all that has been adopted is legitimate. Only then are the acts and bodies mentioned earlier and their conclusions legitimate, legal, and fundamental to the State. As the subsequent history of Slovenia within FLRJ does not justify such a thing to happen, on the contrary, even Slovenian OF have abolished and disbanded Slovenian partisan troops, but all such functions have been taken over by the constitutional assembly in Belgrade. We can assume that even after the Second Slovenian War we were not citizens of our country, that we did not have a country, so since the fall of K.u. We did not live in our country until the monarchy of 1991. So everything that has happened before and which has not been regulated, the State of Slovenia must regulate in an appropriate manner, like the rest of some abnormal situation during this period when we did not have our nationality and nationality. All events, including NOBs and others, must be monitored and dealt with in this light. However, we must stately arrange everything that is not regulated, including a monument to an unknown hero, that we do not begin at all on border matters with Croatia, on genocidal Italian irredentism and genocidal austronacism. The only traitors were the authorities who capitulated and fled to safety in 1941 and left the Slovenes to invaders and anarchy without the state. Of course, the national traitors were already in 1918, 1919, when the Slovenian countries pushed four foreign countries into the community instead of at least trying to do something and to do something for their Slovenia. These clerical politicians, who have repeated their work during World War II and have done so many times today, are true traitors, not poor people, without leaders and without state structures, thanks to the Roman Catholic Church. And if this conflict did not lead a criminal, selfish and self-acquiring policy, there would be no disaster in 1918, no mass beatings. We'd have a beautiful monument, a skeleton on the castle, and some Gnyards wouldn't make sausage. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u156	Mr Jelinčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u157	on the representation of all the people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much. But since you presented your position, I didn't interrupt you, although I probably should. Expressions such as colliding, barking, direct attacks on a fellow Member are not part of the presentation of views and not in the controversy. I warn you that, of course, I will be stricter in the future, and I will not let you, if I succeed, say such words. Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Oton Župančič wrote in his version: "Homeland is one, we are all given one life and one death." In his version, as he wrote, we are equal to people at least twice. At birth and at death. But is that true? Human life is the greatest universal value, so we must treat the dead in a pietically manner. Whether we are able to finally give this mandate to all the victims of the past, including the symbolic inscriptions on the graves, so that we can make a straight step by establishing a symbolic monument for all the victims. Colleagues and colleagues, are we finally able to write down that in many graves we have victims of war and revolutionary violence and with inscriptions on graves to admit that there are victims of war crimes and victims of revolutionary violence here? In the Slovenian People's Party, we have signed amendments to the law in order to finally regulate this, in order to complete this chapter of our past on behalf of past injustices. We also symbolically ask for forgiveness on behalf of the State and admit that crimes and injustices have taken place without distinction. According to the Slovenian People's Party, the Teharje Memorial Park, where there are already many victims of post-war beatings, whose graves are scattered all over Slovenia. In the case of amendments to the law, there are minor changes to the law, but there is a large symbolic message, which is why we also support the reduced procedure and amendments, which followed the reasoned comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The debate has been going on for two decades on markings and inscriptions. We believe that the time has finally come for the dead to receive due respect and rest in peace. Finally, let the time come when the dead will no longer separate us, let the symbolic action connect us to be able to find constructive solutions for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u161	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law because we believe that it is a step away from what could have been done in these 20 years. Every small step is more than what some people seem to want to do, but they do not just because it is open for a long time and that they can discuss it or simply share it, as they themselves think it would be right. An inscription may be acceptable or unacceptable to one or another. The fact is, it is a gift to those who have died, who are victims, and who are also dedicated to this inscription. Otherwise, we are aware that in Slovenia there are a lot of monuments that speak only of the victims of war, partisans, hostages, the civilian population and so on, exemplaryly arranged and will remain there. That on the other hand everything is full of monuments and markings that speak of something else and in a different way. And that these inscriptions will stay so they won't change. And that there will still be those of whom we are now talking and which we are going to legislate, in fact, just some supplement or perhaps some contribution, but it would not be about honoring one another. With no law can it be abolished that individuals feel one way or another a fifth to all the dead. For us in the Liberal Democracy, it has long been clear, and I have already repeated many times today that we have confirmed this with many acts. However, it is not possible to get everything on the same denominator, even through such an arrangement, through the inscription on the monument as some would like. Revolutionary violence is closer to a truth, closer to what could have meant that in the name of the revolution it was also very bad and they were victims. On the other hand, the word "only victims of the revolution" would probably be too small. The hive has to be regulated and this government also assumes that the funds allocated and to be allocated in future budgets for this purpose are justifiable and must certainly be allocated for this purpose. The question is whether we can really fix everything in a short time and the last cemetery or the last cave clean, close and devote it in a very fast way, in a short time, with also small costs. Costs, of course, must not be a question at the end, but there is a specific time, some specific relationship. However, we hope that the Government will be able to make a plan to make a program that systematically regulates these things and concludes, as we say, with this final stage of bone storage where they belong. However, we are also aware that we will probably get the impression that we are too slow, that inspectors are walking around and closing caves because they are dangerous and cannot continue some work, but we need to know that there are more things to be done than that. Not only are some of you concerned about these issues, but others are demeaning. No, no, no. It is to all of us, and we will also say it by confirming this law, so that we can settle these issues with dignity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz has the text on behalf of the National Communities' Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. During the period of informal harmonisation of the text of the law, we have proposed or pointed out a matter which is not of a specific substantive nature but relates to consistent compliance with constitutional and legal provisions in terms of bilinguality in the national mixed territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the first place, let me say that we support the principled law. We believe that there is no doubt that there is a step forward compared to the current situation. The War Cemetery Act is supplemented by the Regulations on the Register of War Cemeteries and the Regulations on Cemetery at Military Cemeteries. Article 5 of the Regulations on the Funeral Order in Military Cemeteries, which sets out the markings on military graves, unfortunately does not comply with Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This provides that in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, the official languages in addition to Slovenian are Italian or Hungarian. Otherwise, in the case of Italian, it is easier to ask this question, since the text of the sub-law is provided so that, I quote, "The military cemeteries must be marked with information boards in the Slovenian, English, German and Italian languages and in the language of nationality buried there." Thus, the Italian Nationality Community or the language is formally satisfied, although not on the basis of the legal provisions resulting from the provision of the rights of indigenous national communities, but on another principle. This is certainly not the case with the Hungarian national community. As we have not received a concrete answer in relation to our proposal, nor in the interpretations of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Cemeteries Act, we reiterate that the inscriptions on monuments and tombs in the national mixed area should be in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore propose that the articles of the sub-legislative acts should be supplemented accordingly. More than a practical solution, it is a matter of consistent respect for the constitutional provisions of law in any document, that is to say, in this case. We therefore hope that our proposal will be satisfied or that this proposal will be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Cemetery Act also has a similar time dimension, given the dynamics of changing and implementing the proposed amendments and additions, to the earlier law on the correction of injustices. That is why I will not repeat this work in detail, but let me say that without an exaggerated debate on this bill, it is possible to talk about the degree of coordination or disharmony that revolved mainly around those things that are now in order and concern the inscription, the skeleton and the monument. Earlier it was said that the verse of Oton Župančič will be written on it, "Homeland is one, we are all assigned." And let me remind you that the Mayor's song continues with the verse: "Whoever dies for her rises to life when he falls to death." In fact, this should be taken into account when we talk about the fivefold attitude toward all who have been taken away from them by the life of war, which is the most massive and cruel violation of human rights. However, since we are talking about the War Cemetery Act at a time when a large cemetery is open and many other questions are raised, let me point out that the war graves in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia were not regulated until 20 July 2003 and that the war graves and all three other laws still in force or adopted in the previous country were the Law on the Sensation of Cemetery and Cemetery Cemeteries of Allied and Other Foreign Armed Forces in Yugoslavia, the Law on Cemeteries and Grave Fighters, and the Law on Cemeteries and Grave Fighters abroad. Since we are witnessing graves within the country and because they are also international relations, let me point out that we are also applying international law in this area, in particular the Hague and Geneva Conventions, in addition to domestic legislation. In this context, the fourth Hague Convention on the Laws and Customs of War on Land, which has grown into customary law and is bound to be respected by all States, not only the Parties. However, the protection of war graves where the remains of members of foreign armies are buried shall be guaranteed by law unless otherwise regulated by an interstate agreement. So far, interstate agreements have been adopted on the regulation of war graves with Italy, Germany, Hungary and the Czech Republic. The Interstate Agreement with Croatia has already been signed and ratified on the Croatian side and is still awaiting ratification in the National Assembly and agreements with Romania, Serbia and Montenegro are also being prepared. So much in terms of what exists at the level of legal regulation of matters, with which we also touch more or less on the regulation of war graves in this law. In particular, we must stress that in the Group of Social Democrats we cannot agree to those opposition proposals that want to amend the provisions of Article 1 and who want to apply with a change what they wanted to prove and enforce on the basis of the adoption of the European Parliament Resolution on Totalitarianism and European consciousness. We believe that this law should regulate those things that can be dealt with in accordance with the title of this law, which is the regulation of war graves. We hope that the law will receive not only support but also, in practice, come to life and that any difficulties in implementing this law, which some point out, will be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much. France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! We have before us a new law that, while eliminating some of the shortcomings, such as the establishment of a common bone and a common monument with the Mayor's inscription, still fails to treat victims of violence in a pathetic and respectful manner. For Pieteta means true recognition not only of the one lying in the grave but also of why and who killed him. It means that we recognize the victim's humanity, her legitimate desires and desires, even though they were different from those of the revolutionary leadership back then. However, even after so many years of Slovenian independence, this law cannot do so, and all graves are called war graves, i.e. graves, the cause of which should only be war. Just one case. The cemetery of Krimska cave nad Borovnica was founded in the first years of the war, in 1941 and 1942. It didn't fill up with the bodies of fallen soldiers. It filled up with killed civilians. The Partisans did not break into the valley and confront the Italian crew. And even if there were such conflicts, no one would carry bodies through thorns and rocks hours far to the hard-to-reach karst abyss and throw them into it. The miserable tomb of Crimea is not a result of war and has nothing to do with World War II, except that it occurred during the occupation, which in itself meant a great disaster for Slovenia. All the victims were still alive led to the edge of the abyss, and here they were shot, shot, or buried alive. Let me read the partisan charter of that time, that is, of 5 July 1942, what to do with the people who were put on the train by the Italian occupation in Ljubljana, and as conscious Slovenians and fascist opponents sent them to the camp in Rab, while the partisans captured the train on Verd and these Slovenians. I quote: "By oral order of the commander of the third group Mir. J. Bračić must have 12 interns rescued from the prisoner train within 24 hours. Do the liquidation in secret. Take strict care that you do not get any information about this and that someone does not escape you. You are personally responsible for the execution of this order. Death of fascism, freedom of the people." I also have a name list of victims who ended up in the Crimea Cave until July 1942, which is before the first armed revolution occurred. There are 39 people on this list with last name and surname. Of that, there are 8 partisans, 31 civilians, 80%. The partisans are also those who did not fall in battle, and there are 8 women from civilians, i.e. a quarter of women. Thus, many of our graves are called graves of civil war victims by law. Here, too, this law shows fear of naming a cemetery with the right name and the victim to admit that they did not die as collateral damage, such as the allied bombing of the blueberry bridge, but were deliberately and unjustly killed in some sort of non-civilization tornado, which we can most authentically call revolutionary violence. We cannot even name the grave of the victims of war after the war of the dead, since these are events that did not occur during the war and have no cause for war. Some victims were not executed, but were walled alive, such as in the Slovenian Bistrica in 1946, a year after the end of the war. The Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed additions that would in no way distort what has been put at the forefront of what has been put forward after the call and after the speakers have spoken. And because for the victims and their relatives in such a deceitful marriage, which offends both victims and their relatives, we cannot cooperate, I predict the obstruction of this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! We have before us a novel of the War Cemetery Act, which we have put here by the coalition Members and Members and representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, after long coordination, into the parliamentary procedure and for which we have achieved majority support. Unfortunately, only mostly, but not the support of all parties, because some of us are in an incomprehensible way insisting on some requirements that, in our opinion, complicate the problem but cannot seek solutions in agreement and patience. Which, of course, we can regret, but with regard to the subject and the urgency of its resolution, we do not see a better and more dignified solution at a given time than what is now before us. The path of this coordination has not been easy, as you know, for all those who have already participated in it in the previous term, but in any previous one, so in the Group of Members, we really hope that by adopting, we will definitively resolve some of the pressing issues of the past or of some only half-lived history. Although today’s events also make the hope of this very weak. Although the Basic Law entered into force in July 2003. He has raised a lot of attention and dilemma in public, and it is with these that we are trying to put an end to you. In March 2005, 4,127 tombs and graves from all wars were registered at 1,190 locations. It is also necessary to add 410 hidden graves so far, and there may be more in which the remains of the corpses of prisoners of war and civilian victims of revolutionary violence between and after the war. The law also transferred some 3,000 tombs or monuments of national liberation from World War II, which were previously cared for by local communities, to the country in 2005. This law also governs the graves of civilians who have died or died during the war due to war events in the territory of Slovenia. The graves of war victims are also regarded by this law as graves of those persons who were killed prior to World War II because of personal circumstances such as national or racial affiliation. The graves of war victims are also the graves of persons who were contrary to the principles and rules of the rule of law and, contrary to war law, killed after May 15, 1945, as well as the existing graves of military personnel who died in military service in the former SFRY, in addition to the graves cared for by the relatives of the buried. According to the law in force, the prescribed markings at war graves may contain, in addition to the identification of the place and the time of death of the buried, the text of a sacred or memorial nature. At war graves, however, no labels, texts, or symbols are allowed to glorify and celebrate the occupation’s membership or cooperation with it. Most of the differences and criticism are caused by graves after the war of unlawfully executed persons who are supposed to have an overly general and vague designation, especially the graves of victims who were executed after 15 May 1945 in violation of the principles and rules of the rule of law. We are convinced that this present novel correctly takes into account the historical facts that the victims of revolutionary violence are also killed in the graves in addition to the victims of the war, i.e. after the end of the war. Among other things, the proposal provides for the arrangement of the common skeleton to be set up in Teharja and a monument to all the victims to be placed in Ljubljana. Also, the proposal with the correct inscriptions expresses the fifth to all those who have died and died. Among other things, we will write at the war graves: "Death as victims of war and revolutionary violence." The joint monument in Ljubljana is supposed to bear the inscription: "Homeland is one, assigned to us all and one life and one death." Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that Oton Župančič has told us with this verse and perhaps with what she added to her colleague Potrat, more than has been heard in the debates so far on this subject, about our common history, and that we will finally be able to overcome the differences and contradictions that fight and upset not only us who are sitting here, especially the Slovenian public. In the Zares Group, in the second reading of the law on the parent body, we were unable to adopt a supplement on the location of the skeleton proposed by the largest opposition party, as this supplement was also marked as provocative by the applicants. We feel that it does not contribute to resolving the problem, and unfortunately it does not contribute to reconciliation. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the bill as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Position The DeSUS Group will present the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u171	Dear President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Emissary Group will support the War Cemetery Act as it is prepared. We believe that this law largely solves all the open issues that needed to be resolved in order to finally settle the graves, especially the muddy graves, so that representatives of foreign nationalities and the military, as well as our citizens, who have their loved ones in these graves, can light a candle there and remember their loved ones as they do the pathetic attitude towards the dead. The SDS obstructs this debate because we have never agreed to any change in this direction in the DeSUS Group. The war of the cemetery was created by the invaders and the revolutionaries. As if the national edition were not, as if there were no white guard, the Black Hands of the Natives, as if there were no Kozlar's guests, where they were killing the girls who worked for the Partisans, as if there were no Urha, a grammatical pit of hostages on Francolov and so on and so on. That's what they wanted, that's all. List only those who exclude collaboration and in this way rehabilitate it in some way. This was the main reason and purpose of the Lords, who seek in every war law the possibility of deleting any word that speaks of cooperation with the invader, even more, the graves that were created during the war should have been created without their cooperation. Clearly, we could not oppose such solutions. And the law, which lacks the things we need to make this definitively, has been waiting for another four years, not just because of the inscription that was now in line with the 2000-2004 mandate, but because of some unfortunate coincidence on the Committee, this amendment has not been adopted. Everything else was actually missing. I mean the skeleton, I mean the monument to all the dead in all the wars in Slovenia, I also mean this inscription and so on. As far as grave management is concerned, I must say that our Group of Members is responsible for arranging these graves, but not by digging them all up, because they are not our victims, nor are Slovenia and the Slovenian nation responsible for them from that time on. We have hidden graves in the Kočevsko Horn, some buried in Teharje and elsewhere, but it's not the number we're talking about. In the last month of the war alone, 120,000 soldiers have fallen on our soil and all are in hidden graves. But, gentlemen of the SDS, I would lay all of this as a liability, a burden and a cost to our country, which is not right. It is therefore necessary to adopt interstate agreements with Croatia, Serbia as soon as possible, in order for them to take care of the troops buried and to take care of the Ustashas at their expense or we will just fence them, protect this cemetery and build a monument, not dig up and show the Slovenian people the bones of the dead instead of taking care of the bones from which the soup could be cooked when we are running out. A severe pit will cost a few million dollars just to show this disaster every day, and we don't have the money. Therefore, it is necessary to take a serious approach to rationalizing these graves and to dig only where the victims can be identified, not everywhere and at any cost, because this will simply not be possible. As we say, we will support and are pleased that the law that has solved most of the problems in this area will be finally adopted in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item, and I hereby terminate the 12th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u173	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 1st item on the agenda - to consider the motion for a resolution on the support of the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 1, and I would point out that this amendment is linked to the amendment to the title. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment under number 3, to the address, will be irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please, for the applications. Janez Janša, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Given the debate and the views presented, the amendment is unlikely to be adopted, which will practically mean that the Slovenian Parliament will reject the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. In this way, Slovenia will be almost certainly, today and probably forever, the only European country that will do such a thing. It is true that the Slovenian Parliament is the only one to decide this at the moment, but Slovenia within the European Union was the only country in which there were substantive concerns at the political level about the appropriateness of the European Parliament resolution. For no other Parliament, for any other government, for any other government coalition in the other Member States of the European Union, this resolution was not disputed. And in no other country on August 23rd as a day of remembrance of the victims of all totalitarianism was any disputed date. There was another country and another capital where they had problems with this date and with this resolution, but it was not the capital of a Member State of the European Union, but it was Moscow. Only in Ljubljana and Moscow were such problems. This says a lot, and today's debate has said a lot about how some things remain in Slovenia, which are elsewhere in Europe on the basis of a common value framework on which the European Union is founded, self-explanatory, and in us are unclear, open and difficult to discuss. Certainly, the National Assembly did not perform the task today, although it was very easy. It was only to confirm the text already adopted in the European Parliament. The proposer is neither this nor the other party, neither the other political party, nor the left-hand or the right-hand political option, but it is a neutral proposer. By rejecting this resolution; many similar texts have previously been rejected, which have been proposed by domestic candidates, and another opportunity to draw one line under one chapter is wasted! And on the basis of this drawn line, it is only possible to adopt appropriate legal acts or amend existing legal acts without a vote, and today this is exactly what is being done. What the National Assembly has not done today will have to do in the coming days or will have to do so by our successors in this Hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Procedural Mrs. Franco, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the lie has now been told that we intend to reject the European Parliament's resolution - this is not true. I suggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u177	This is a substantive debate, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u178	No, you can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u179	I have to stop you. It's not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u180	My procedural proposal is to read the text on which we will [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u181	Procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u182	voted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u183	Please, this is not procedural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u184	This is a procedural proposal, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u185	No! No!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u186	to read again the text on which we will vote. [[...]] And let's see if it's true that we're refusing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u187	Sir, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u188	This resolution. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u189	Yuri [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u190	Because that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u191	Everyone has a document on the table. This procedural proposal to read again the document on which we will vote today - I will not accept this proposal. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. We are now at the first amendment, and I would like to point out that the content you have imposed on the committee by voting is completely contrary to the source of the European resolution on European consciousness. It's totally the opposite. In fact, the resolution at the outset puts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u193	Mr. Mag. Grimes, this is a debate. Explain your vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u194	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u195	And you're dealing with the other side. We had a discussion, it was quite extensive. Please explain your voice as usual. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u196	Mr President, I am trying to explain if you will allow why it is the only European and also the only reasonable thing to accept the SDS amendment. This is because the current text is not only misleading, but clearly contrary to the very origin of what the European Parliament has written in the Resolution on European consciousness. For he set out at the starting point that there were no historical reports that would be entirely objective. I quote, there is no objective historical report. And under point B, even at the beginning that no political body, that is to say Parliament, has the exclusive right to explain history, because, of course, these authorities cannot claim to be completely objective, because they are, of course, elected politically, they operate politically. And you are putting forward a report that was once adopted by historians, orders and adopted by the National Assembly, and you are presenting this as a contribution to the objectification of this time, so that I do not mention anything else that is the content of the Committee's proposed decision. All of this can still be properly regulated, the European is comparable if the amendment of the SDS Group is adopted. By this, if you reject it, it means that you land or that you want to impose by voting [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Time's up. Explanation of the voice of Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We will not support the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party as well as the Group of Ambassadors. We believe that the resolution has been adopted by the European Parliament. We feel that we are also part of this European family, and we firmly believe that it is not true that the Slovenian Parliament has rejected the resolution. It is true, however, that the Slovenian Parliament is the only one in the European Union to have considered the resolution. Today, in our parliamentary group, we have clearly and unequivocally stated that we condemn all totalitarianism, including communism. And we repeat that again, for today it has been repeatedly said that this is not the case. Unfortunately, after a long debate, we are disappointed that today it has been reaffirmed that the purpose of the debate on the Resolution and European consciousness in the Slovenian Parliament has unfortunately been used mainly for internal political purposes and objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I will not proceed with the debate initiated by the predecessor, but I will explain my voice. The amendment has to be adopted for a fundamental reason, because what we have proposed has been mutilated. However, in order for it to be as it should be and as we would have it, it is necessary to accept the amendment. Let's put it very simply. The European Parliament has adopted a resolution condemning all totalitarianism. The Coalition said, no, we will amend the matter and proposed an amendment in which it said that there was a kind form of communism in the territory of Slovenia, totalitarianism, which democratized everything after 1945 and thus made it possible, thanks to its own merit, a plural system in 1991. That's what I'm saying. The second point at which the coalition insisted is that the resolution of the European Parliament should be deleted. I repeat, once again, the resolution of the European Parliament is deleted. But the truth is, the coalition realized that people understood that too. In order to "slow" the eyes of people, it says today that the resolution has been published somewhere in the European Official Journal, or Parliament. In fact, the aim was to delete it. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt this amendment, and I myself will support this in order to return the basic resolution, the one adopted in Europe, and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Another explanation for the voice. I'm asking you to sign up. He has a word or explanation for the voice of Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support this amendment, because if the National Assembly proposes to vote that I take note of the resolution of the European Parliament and that there is no resolution in the document we are adopting, then it requires something from me that is actually impossible. To support this declaration of familiarity with the European Parliament Resolution, a resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism should be introduced into this first chapter. Only then can you ask the members of the National Assembly to vote that they have been informed of this resolution. If we do not bring this into this first chapter, then there is no resolution. And the coalition just suggested that this be deleted. You cannot, however, demand, on the basis of the first chapter, that we vote on getting acquainted with the European Parliament Resolution if you have written in this first chapter the position of the coalition groups of half-lived history and not until the European Parliament resolution. In short, what is written in the first chapter is completely inconsistent with what is said in the title of the resolution. And if you want the text of the first chapter to be aligned with the title, then the European Parliament Resolution should be inserted in the text as it is written. Also so that, at the beginning of the meeting on 23 August or at the beginning of the first September session, the President of the National Assembly may address the National Assembly, as he did with Srebrenica on 10 July, so that we may also celebrate this day with a minute of silence for all those who have suffered violence. This would be a responsible act, so I will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice: Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Your Honor! What did Adam Michnik say? "A lie is an immortal soul of communism." And this soul is still very much alive in this House and within this Slovenian regime, which is now ruling. By rejecting our amendment, therefore, the rejection of the European Parliament Resolution will result in a very radical revision of Slovenian foreign policy. At the external level, this audit will be confirmed. Indeed, Mr Pahor was a motion for a resolution in 2008 to confirm the day of memory on August 23rd. Today his government and coalition have rejected him, denied him. Mr Žbogar was also on the Council of Ministers, where this resolution and all that it links, including the Day of Remembrance on 23 August, was confirmed. He's demented, too. Prior to that, the Foreign Ministry had distanced itself from the resolution of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Slovenia has also distanced itself from this organisation and this certainly means that this coalition has decided, without Parliament's approval, to revise Slovenian foreign policy. The Slovenian regime obviously lacks the inter- and Warsaw Pact today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. This, of course, made the amendment irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the second chapter. We're voting. Excuse me? Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please sign up when I announce the vote. Please, as usual. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u207	Good. Look, now it's going essentially [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u208	here, on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u209	Sure. If you'll excuse me. I hope that you will not unreasonably interfere with my word again as before, because this amendment actually speaks about the text of the resolution itself and its publication. The resolution itself represents a special quality because it represents a European value framework in which much effort and long-term work have been put into the European Parliament and in some ways lays the civilisational foundations of the European Union. All countries that have had a single party or whatever you want have adopted a totalitarian regime at the end of it, a act of Parliament with which they have clearly defined themselves until a period of time before and thus laid a common foundation for their citizens and citizens for the future. This has also been done by the European Parliament. Only the Slovenian Parliament has so far failed to perform these tasks. There is a record in one of the Constitutional Court's judgments that touches the revolutionary judiciary, but Parliament as a fundamental democratic institution is not in any way bound by this duty, and the Slovenian Parliament is obviously awaiting this task. It would be logical for the Slovenian Parliament to confirm this democratic deficit with its European orientation. To show, therefore, that there is no party and no individual one face to show to the European Union and to the other face for domestic use. It would be logical to vote in favour of this resolution, because it is the majority and all Members from Slovenia in the European Parliament, that it is also a valuable basis for Slovenia. To this end, we have proposed a declaration of support for this resolution to Parliament. However, if you vote against the amendment now tabled, by this de jure, not only in fact, you have already done so in your words, you have rejected this European resolution on European consciousness, although it clearly states that all crimes are the same, which clearly condemns all non-democratic, totalitarian regimes and which sets a gap between the sad stories of the past and the current democratic European integration in the first place. Today, this vote will make it very clear who really is European, with the right face both against Europe and at home. And in the SDS, we will prove this by voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much, President. Now I don't know if this amendment is irrelevant or whether it needs to be changed because this is about support, while the address is an introduction. So this must probably be cleared up so that each of us knows what he or she will not vote on. That needs to be explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u212	Very simple: this amendment is not directly in conflict with if the first one was adopted. If the second amendment is adopted, an editorial or harmonisation amendment will be required. Well, we'll wait for the vote. If the amendment is adopted, an editorial or harmonisation amendment will be necessary, depending on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, there are no open questions. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the resolution or declaration, I give the floor to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. The amendment adopted on the home working body, which changed the title of the act from the resolution to the declaration, did not, at the same time, fix the reference in the preamble which provides the basis for the adoption of the act in question, give rise to a disharmony and it is necessary to remedy this non-compliance with the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The harmonisation amendment. Since the in, on the parent working body adopted by the amendment, the title in the declaration is not harmonised, harmonisation is necessary. The harmonisation amendment you received on the bench is ready. The harmonisation amendment reads: "In the preamble the number 109 is replaced by the number 110." The amendment was proposed by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. Please. Please, Mr. Tanko, procedurally or you have 5 minutes at your disposal. [[...]] Procedural or?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u215	Procedural first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u216	Procedural first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to inform you that we have also tabled a correction of this harmonisation amendment into the procedure and that, in addition to correcting the Rules of Procedure, we have proposed that the title of this declaration should also be amended. For what is written in the text in the first chapter is not in harmony with what is called the declaration. We therefore propose that the title of this declaration be aligned with the first chapter and that it read as follows: "The Declaration on the Positions of the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS Coalition Group Members in rejecting the European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009." This should be done because the text of the resolution has been deleted and in the first chapter you have written down the views of the parliamentary groups up to a half-time history, up to all, I do not know the 10, 12 amendments which are unconstitutional and will be voted on later, you have done what no one really expects. Since the title has changed since it no longer matches the text of the first chapter and since this resolution will not be published in the Official Journal and will not be made available to the Slovenian public, this text should be aligned with the coalition text in the first chapter. Apparently, Slovenian Parliament and Slovenian politics will not mark August 23rd as a memorial day, as they did in the resolution of the European Parliament in Srebrenica, when the National Assembly did so on July 10, 2007 at its meeting. However, it was not wrong to vote or mark this Memorial Day in Srebrenica, but two months after the European Parliament Resolution on Srebrenica, a resolution of the European Parliament was adopted on the condemnation of totalitarian regimes and such behaviour was expected from the President of the National Assembly to mark it in a similar way, especially since we sent a letter to the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party on 17 July to the President of the National Assembly, recalling that date at the first September meeting, on 23 August. Unfortunately, today, when the first September meeting was held, the President of the National Assembly did not make a minute of silence for all victims of totalitarianism. And we believe that this part has to be aligned with the text that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Further clear and unequivocal explanations. The consistency or non-conformity of acts, laws or declarations, resolutions shall be determined by the Government or the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament, and not by the motions or Members, shall be corrected by such non-compliance with their proposals. This non-compliance has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, in relation to this amendment, by replacing the number 109 with the number 110, and by no other amendment. I am now putting this harmonisation amendment that you have tabled into the debate. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič and then procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Please, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask for correction on the display, the text on the display is wrong, not now, but it used to be, and it said: a motion for a resolution on the support of the European Parliament resolution. We have a declaration on this, not a motion for a resolution. Please, if you show and look again, you'll see it's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u220	We know what we're talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u221	Yeah, fix it. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u222	No, Mr. Jelinčich. The inscription will be corrected when this document is adopted. Until it's accepted, we don't know exactly what's been adopted and how it's going to be adopted. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u223	President, look at your own documents, look at yours. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u224	You don't have a word for it, Mr. Jelinczyk. I've explained it to you. The document is still under consideration and when adopted, everything about the document will also be clear and known [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Procedural Mr Tanko, and I would ask that my decision here is clear and clear and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I asked you which harmonisation amendment we will vote on. You have said about what you have submitted to the Members or on behalf of the applicants with the first-signed Jozet Tank. I have informed you that we have tabled the correction of the harmonisation amendment, where, in addition to replacing number 109 with number 110, we have also proposed a change of address in the preamble. This correction of the harmonisation amendment has been fully implemented, as the basic harmonisation amendment has been tabled. I propose that we vote on a revised harmonisation amendment to this resolution. There is no other harmonisation amendment, no matter who warned or who did not warn. Unfortunately, the government has done nothing in this area to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u226	Dear Mr. Tanko, once again! The consistency or non-compliance of laws or other acts adopted by the National Assembly shall be determined by the Legislative and Legal Service or by the Government, not by the Group of Members, not by Members. These then have the task of preparing an amendment, in accordance with the recommendation or proposal of the Legal and Legislative Services, and this amendment goes into consideration and adoption. That's what you did, and you tabled this amendment. However, the correction of the harmonisation amendment is simply through this and beyond what the Legislative and Legal Service has proposed, because it has not found the non-conformity of the title of this document. That's why, of course, we're moving on. First of all, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants on the harmonisation amendment. That's you, Mr. Tanko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u227	Mr. President of the National Assembly. I think it's very easy for you to explain the Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal service has now said that a harmonisation amendment must be tabled. We have tabled the harmonisation amendment, but I have informed you that we have also tabled the correction of the harmonisation amendment. Because we don't think the first chapter matches the title of the act. It does not match the title of the act, and I would like to remind you that, given that we have replaced the original harmonisation amendment, we are no longer able to discuss the original harmonisation amendment, but we can only talk about the harmonisation amendment that we have tabled as an amendment to the amendment and it is also up to the National Assembly to decide on it. Mr President of the National Assembly, you cannot afford any interpretation, no division of the proposed harmonisation amendment into what you like about what you do not like. We can only decide on the harmonisation amendment, as it has been tabled, and I note that the drafter responsible for preparing it has prepared a harmonisation amendment. The fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure provides for this. I note that we have prepared a harmonisation amendment and this harmonisation amendment is in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and is complemented by what we find to be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] These amendments, which we have tabled, must also be corrected. [[...]] For the title of the resolution, or the title of the declaration, is no longer in line with the text of the first and second chapters, which remain in the resolution. The procedure is quite clear. All we have left is a vote on the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I ask the Legislative and Legal Service once again whether the title of the document is also inconsistent and should also be corrected by the harmonisation amendment itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. The legislative and legal service is in fact a non-compliance to which it is obliged to draw attention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, including warnings relating to non-compliance between the legal basis and the title of the act under consideration. With regard to the content itself, the consistency of the content and the title of the act to be adopted, it is essentially a question which is not of a legal nature to which the Legislative and Legal Service should be reminded. On this occasion, however, I must explain that we have raised concerns about the amendment, which was still a proposal by the amendment at the time, and about the addresses, about the compatibility of the title and the content, but of course these concerns have not been taken into account, which is, of course, a sovereign and legitimate decision of the home working body and now of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u230	Thank you very much. So the explanation is clear and loud. Anyone else wants to discuss the harmonisation amendment, which reads: "In the preamble the number 109 is replaced by the number "110". Anybody else want to discuss this? Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u231	Dear President! You seem to have a problem running this meeting of the National Assembly. There's a tremendous amount of confusion in the coalition. You're continuing your totalitarian approach. I suggest you multiply [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u232	Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u233	Thank you very much. President, I suggest you listen, if you don't, I won't talk, it doesn't make sense. I propose the suspension of the sitting for half an hour and request that you divide the Members into a table by a revised harmonisation amendment of the applicants. Apparently, fellow Members don't have it on the table. I brought myself what we put into the process. Sadly, the services of the National Assembly also do their utmost to ensure that the work in the National Assembly is not going as it should. I note that we have not again received what we have invested on the table, and not in time, so that, despite the full interruption, Members can review this and discuss this harmonisation amendment. I propose a half-hour suspension, and I also request that this harmonisation amendment on the preamble and the title be distributed to Members of Parliament on the table. Then we'll keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I interrupt the session for ten minutes, so you'll get on the bench as well as the amendment [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I grant a half-hour suspension until 19.32. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u235	We continue the adjourned meeting of the assembly and the consideration of item 1 of the agenda. We're in the voting phase. We have found that we need a harmonisation amendment to the preamble. On the bench, you received the proposal's harmonisation amendment. I note that this harmonisation amendment is not prepared in accordance with the instructions and recommendation of the Legislative and Legal Service and I ask the proposers whether they want to correct this amendment in accordance with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, which means that part of the amendment, which says, "The title changes by reading..." and then the text forward, "the line of this amendment." I therefore ask the proposers whether they want to correct this amendment in the manner proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. Please, Mr. Tanko, head of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. First, Madam President, I must express my disappointment at the work of the services of the National Assembly, which, within two hours of the amendment being tabled, failed to copy and distribute the amendment to the Members. I think that you will have to somehow make sure that this information work in the National Assembly works as it is appropriate for this institution. Unfortunately, you were obviously not informed in time that an amendment to the harmonisation amendment had been tabled, and perhaps for this reason some complications. And this part about informing the President of the National Assembly will probably need to be improved. In view of the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, the following are the following. I note that, in view of the debate by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the harmonisation amendment is consistent with its conclusions and also with the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service at the National Council's working body that matters with the manner set out by the Coalition are becoming inconsistent and do not comply with the provisions laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the coalition on the working body were not heeded, so we also came in the substantive part of the disagreement. The Legal and Legislative Service has warned that it does not go into political positions, but it has been informed in substance on the working body. And what you have identified in your opening statement does not belong to the meeting of the National Assembly. The President, also the President of the National Assembly, is the one who puts points in the order they are put to the vote. And he has no task as an interpreter or one who gives instructions on how Members of the National Assembly should decide. By taking this right to comment, you have actually intervened in Article 82 of the Constitution and in the right of Members to decide for themselves, as they think it is right. We are not bound to any instructions, nor to the instructions of the President, nor to the instructions of the President of the National Assembly. The table of contents of the amendment that we have proposed stands. By deleting the resolution from the text of the declaration, the National Assembly is unable to take note of this resolution. It means that the National Assembly has not considered this resolution, and therefore what you are proposing, what you have proposed with your amendments, is substantively inconsistent. You force the National Assembly to make a decision that has not been considered. What Members of the Coalition hold for their position on this European resolution [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u237	It's over. Please. I'm sorry. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u238	Mr President, I am firmly convinced and remind you that it was also your decision to find that such an amendment is wrong. Why? The European Declaration on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism makes it clear that there is no entirely objective historical report and that no political body has the right to an exclusive interpretation of history. With that amendment that was already adopted, you actually did just that. You have introduced into the text only a historical study, which was commissioned by the National Assembly and already prejudiced in some way the direction in which it is going, and then some of the values. It's in stark contrast to itself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u239	Procedurally, Mr Grimes, not substantively. [[...]] Procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u240	Mr President, this is in stark contradiction to the text of the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and would be the adoption under this heading, as you would like, of such content literally in a mockery of the European Parliament, because, under the cover of a European resolution, we would accept something that is going in the opposite direction. [[...]] For this reason, the only correct amendment, including the substantive amendment prepared by the SDS Group of Members, is also actually procedurally the only one in the game. And I ask you, Mr President, to reconsider your decision to harmonise the actual content of what you have already voted on with the title, and to define this as the views of the Coalition's members when rejecting the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which you have already done when voting on our second amendment. That exact address fully reflects the content of your concrete actions, your legal decisions today in the National Assembly. And only such an address then adequately reflects the content and only such an address would neither be in mockery to the European Parliament nor to the victims of totalitarianism, nor to the European consciousness of which the resolution otherwise speaks. For this reason, once again, this address is the only valid but also the only one in the game, because our original amendment, which you have confirmed as correctly submitted, has been replaced by an appropriate text, which is in line with your concrete decisions, with the content of what you have already voted in this House today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I have said, not for the first time, that this amendment is not prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service, but I have decided that I will put this amendment, the harmonisation amendment to the vote, because no matter what we think, we cannot order what harmonisation amendment will put into the procedure. That is why I have decided to vote on this amendment. Procedural? We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that we do not really know who is drinking, who is paying, what we are going to vote on and what we will not vote on, and that at least in the Slovenian National Party we are familiar with the European Parliament's resolution, and also that in the War Violence Victims Act and the War Cemetery Act, we are against both laws, because approximately EUR 3 million 600,000 is not acceptable to us, which will fall on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers at this terrible time when people do not have food. I therefore predict obstruction at all three points. Perhaps it would make even more sense to explain, one would expect the Slovenian government to deal with smarter matters at that time. To deal with how to solve the crisis, how to save people who do not have food, how to save people who are more on the road every day, but who will stop solving things like the social problems of border marginal groups and so on. So I don't think it's an honor for the National Assembly to waste money and waste time on such things. And again, so thank you very much, we're going to continue at the next session and today's obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I just want to warn you that the Slovenian government has not convened this meeting. We decide and vote on the harmonisation amendment to the preamble and the title as presented by the Group of Members and Jože Tanko on behalf of the applicants. Are we voting on an explanation of vote? [[...]] I'm asking you to sign up. First, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u244	Mr. President. I understand that you do not want to take responsibility and reject this amendment, which is incorrect, contrary to the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the recommendation, because it is the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that determines whether or not a matter is inconsistent. And in this part, there was no warning that the proposal for an act was inconsistent. It is a simple Baltic doing, that an amended harmonisation amendment has been tabled and is withdrawn so that we do not vote on it, but vote on something that is completely contrary to what the National Assembly must do. It's not right and it's the right thing to do. But given that obviously everything is possible in the National Assembly, not the procedure, not some manners that are supposed to apply in such a high house, do not apply, but how to insert something into the bicycle to make it look strange, in the direction that anyone would like, I will vote against this amendment so that you will not again be accused of abuse of your functions and currently chairing this assembly. But absolutely so is doing, at least if the practice continues to be such that when someone remembers something when it does not respond to it, he puts in something and says that it is the only thing that is acceptable and procedural and substantive and so on. In a democratic process, we have come to the end of the last act of addressing this act. It is the harmonisation and amendment and the final vote. At this stage, it is not possible to think, to think about what else we want, and how to correct more in your best interests what you failed to implement through the procedure. There is one, the other, which in the democratic process receives a higher vote and decides as it decides. And that's where we came in. The harmonisation amendments are not intended to correct the content and interpretation of the final decisions in the manner in which they are prepared. I will vote against it, and so will the LDS Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I reiterate that I would also have every business opportunity to reject such an amendment and say that it does not exist at all. However, I believe that in this case this attempt is, you might say, the manipulation of parliamentary democracy is best prevented by the tool of parliamentary democracy. And that's the vote. We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. I note that these comments only deepen the pressure and humiliation of the work of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. You have now debated as if the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is in the National Assembly only to make problems. We have properly proposed and put the resolution of the European Parliament into the hearing process. When this has not been adopted, we have properly proposed amendments. And now also correctly and on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, even as regards the content, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said what they had proposed on the working body and that the coalition did not take this into account, we have also tabled a revised harmonisation amendment. I think that the President of the National Assembly should not have allowed himself to allow the work of the panel of speakers, as it were at the time of the meeting of the National Assembly, to be considered so debilitating. I think it would be right to apologize for their statements in the National Assembly. We're working in harmony. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u247	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u248	We have tabled a harmonisation amendment in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Member States may, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, determine their position, and so may Members. This shall not be allowed at the time of the meeting of the Chair. If the President wishes to express his views on the amendment tabled, he must leave the meeting to someone else and then, as a member, discuss the amendment proposal and then give his position. What you have been allowing lately at the meeting of the National Assembly and commenting on the individual amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group or the harmonisation amendment I tabled on behalf of the applicants is inappropriate. You're not allowed to do that. I demand that you conduct the meeting of the National Assembly as it is appropriate for the President and as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Just as you have in some cases allowed yourself to do so when you wanted to express your position, you left the lead to another president and then you held your debate. And any other manipulation, respected president of the National Assembly, does not mean that the work of the National Assembly will be better and that the reputation of this National Assembly will be increased. We don't want to, and it's not right for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u249	Dear Mr Tanko, this is the second or third time I have to reject your allegations. On the contrary, I even believe that the SDS Group is very good at carrying out its opposition function, and there is no doubt about it. I myself, as President of the National Assembly and President-in-Office, have the duty to point out that the harmonisation amendment tabled by the proponents has not been made in accordance with the recommendation or recommendation of the Legislative and Legal Service. I have to warn you about this, and I talked to the Legal and Legal Service about this during my break. But I won't discuss it again. I decided, as I said, that in the National Assembly, even though I could reject this amendment, in the National Assembly is the best mechanism for voting. That's why we're moving on to a decision. Mr Tanko, if you continue this discussion, I have not been argumentative with you, I do not want to be argumentative with you, and I will not talk about it. Yeah, two sentences, if you have a procedural proposal, but you really have to make it. Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u250	Thank you. Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u251	There's a button on my microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u252	I note that what you are saying is there is no sign of this amendment being tabled in order not to be tabled in accordance with the recommendation or anything in the National Assembly. Usually you get to decide or at the table of amendments where it is equipped or immaterial or inadequate or so on. This amendment is not so equipped.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u253	This is not a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u254	Of course it is!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u255	For the sake of Parliamentarianism in Slovenia, I will not discuss, I will not talk about anything. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted. In accordance with Article 140, paragraph 7, as the harmonisation amendment has not been adopted, I will order a half-time break and request my mother's working body to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The pause will last until 20.25, the mother working body meeting in the large hall of Tomšičeva. At 8:25 a.m., we continue the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u256	Mr President, let me inform you that I will convene my mother's working body as soon as possible, as soon as possible. But you didn't give me the words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u257	Because you've already spoken. We'll continue the meeting at 8:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u258	Colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned meeting of the assembly and the consideration of item 1 of the agenda. We're in a vote. On the table I received a motion for a reference to the 19th urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which will be held on Friday, 18.9.2009, at 9 a.m. They will then prepare a harmonisation amendment on the basis of Article 140, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. I note that the conditions for the continuation of this point are not met and therefore, under Article 74, first paragraph, I propose that the National Assembly decide to conclude this point at one of the following meetings. Anybody want to talk about it? The leaders of the parliamentary groups have a chance to debate, three minutes. I don't think that's necessary, Mr. Gorenak. We got a notice, that's your opinion, and we're not going to discuss it. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so we are moving on to a vote. To vote, I propose that, on the basis of Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly decide to consider these points, the Proposal for a Declaration on a Resolution of the European Parliament on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009 [[EPA 357]] , take part in one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda of this extraordinary session. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Victims of War Violence, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled to Article 7 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 7 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military Cemeteries, within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Guido Kres, please. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his own name, Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Right now, I've decided to call again. I would now like to refer to both points, both 2nd and 3rd, on which we will now vote. Look, I just want to say that I'm not sorry that I decided to support both the laws that we're going to adopt today. Why did I choose to support myself? Because I've been talking to people from my area, the area I come from. These people have suffered damage, but they do not talk much about material harm, especially about wanting moral satisfaction. These people were unjustifiably handed over second-rate in the previous system. And that hurts, respectable colleagues and colleagues! If we accept this, we will certainly help to satisfy it. I must say that I have listened to their suggestions, their suggestions, and not only have I listened - this is my duty. But look. Today in this debate, one of our coalition members compared and said that he did not mention [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u260	Dude, there's no more room for trouble, please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u261	bones for soup. [[...]] And then I was before I left this hall. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u262	Please, there's no chance of a problem. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u263	I will vote in favour and also remain in the Chamber. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-08-SDZ5-Izredna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and very much!
