ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Marjan Bezjak, Mrs Breda Pečan, Mr Janez Ribič and Mr Jakob Preseknik. I invited: the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the 1st item of the agenda, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Dr Zdenko Čebašek Travnik to the 2nd item of the agenda, representatives of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to the 11th item of the agenda, representatives of the Council to the 15th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 16 January 2009. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing the items or extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 5 Members and Members. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the agenda for the 2nd meeting of the Assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u2	We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POINTS AND THE POINTS. In the Chamber I welcome the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor and the Ministers and Ministers. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements from 41 Members of Parliament. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is posed to the major ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. A Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Secretary-General of the Government or the Minister shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question that has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Dr Boštjan Žeks, Minister without Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. On the first four questions, please, do you have any procedural questions? [[...]] Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you so much for saying that. At the College of the President of the National Assembly, I have already pointed out twice that it does not seem appropriate for us to see no transfers of plenary meetings on the second network of the National Assembly, as was the practice of the previous mandate. In the Group of Members, we believe that national television audiences should be able to monitor the plenary session of the National Assembly and that it is not permissible to have as many as a third of the audience, because only digital transmission has been switched on, excluded from the possibility of direct monitoring, both the asking of questions sent and the answers to them. I think that's what both the Prime Minister and the ministers deserve. So far, both the questions sent and the answers to them have been very interesting for the general Slovenian public. The transmission would also make sense because it is also the first meeting of the National Assembly, the first regular meeting in this reference, but probably no less interesting also is the transmissions of all subsequent meetings, and I think that, as President of the National Assembly, we could reach an agreement that national television on the second network by 6 p.m., as has been the case so far, it would also carry out meetings of the National Assembly, at least for so long as coverage with a digital signal reaches at least 90% of the population. I think we owe this to our viewers, and I am also sure that you, as president of the National Assembly, can do this in conversation with those responsible on Radio Television Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. If you ask me, I think so too, but of course this is the editorial policy of the national television house. I'm not supposed to interfere with it, but I'm still going to notify the house kindly of what the College is saying. We're not having a debate here. So much for that. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Mr Jože Tanko of the SDS Group will first ask him a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting! The Honourable President of the Government. On 18 November 2008, not for the first time, you said that the new government would replace only state secretaries and that the "cadrovska broom" would stop at the level of directors of the Directorates. Exchanges in Directorates, Offices and Services during the first period following the appointment of the new government should not be made. On 6 December 2005, you stated in your statement on Television Slovenia: "I give here, in front of people, a promise that I will not replace any person in public office unless there is reasonable suspicion that he has not done his job well. I will not ask him with a single word which world view or political definition belongs." In contrast to these statements, the directors of the Directorates were replaced: primarij Jožef Arzenšek, Dr. Igor Shalamun, mag. Bojan Skoda, mag. Sabina Koleša and Simon Starček; Secretary-General of the ministries: Mag. Elda Gregorič Rogelj, Vida Borovinšek, Mag. Alojz Durn, Marjana Cvenkel Lesjak, Tomaž Rozman, Franc Pristovšek, Martin Plut; Director of UKOM: Mag. Ange Logar; v.d. Administrations Kad: mag. Uroš Rožič; Supervisors in Elektra: Mag. Andrej Applenc, Jure Chatel, Dr Leon Cizelj, Janez Horvat, Franz Lavrič; in Kad: Boris Zupančič, Jernej Pavlin, mag. Jože Seknik; in Sod: Dr. Matthew Breznik, Mag. Tomaž Rozen, mag. Tomaž Perše; President and members of the Council of Japan: Martin Bratanič, Mag. Sabine Kolesh, mag. Robert Miha Bolt; Chairman and members of the Management Board of the Institute for National Affairs: Andrej Meglič, Pavle Ferluga, mag. Andrej Vrčon; president and members of the film fund: Igor Prodnik, Stane Malčič and Jože Pogačnik. I ask you: Have these substitution procedures followed your so-called human resources paradigm or not? And: Do you still believe that the human resources wheel is spinning according to your predictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u6	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u7	I am always, even now, convinced that human resources, human capital, are the most important in addition to other comparative values of Slovenia and that the Government must treat it carefully. That's what he does. In line with the promises she made. Because you've listed the names, it's right for me to say something about it. There are 123 jobs in the state administration. Secretaries-general of the ministries, directors of Directorates, heads of government services, heads of bodies in the composition and so on. So far, 13 officials or 10% have been resolved. None of these exchanges were politically motivated. Of the 13 replacements, 6 have asked them to be released. In three cases, there was an agreement between the staff member and the minister. In four cases, the Minister decided to replace himself on the basis of the provisions of Article 83 of the Law on Public Servants. In one of these last four cases, a staff member who has been dismissed is assigned to another post at the other Ministry. No chief of administrative units has been replaced in this mandate. In the past mandate, if I refer for the first time and perhaps the last time to the period before the beginning of my term of office, for example, the Minister appointed 18 chiefs of administrative units after the expiry of his term of office without a public tender. All resolved officials in positions previously civil servants have remained in high jobs, allowing them to participate normally in the future. They are classified in the 40th pay grade. As a rule, they received an additional five wage classes, which means that they receive a salary for the ninetieth grade. The evidence of political recruitment, Mr Tanko, is also unjustifiable because, following the elections just before the end of her term of office, of the one hundred and thirty officials who had been employed for a certain period of time in the authorities of the State Administration, on the basis of the Chairman's trust, provided a service for a certain and indefinite period for a number of 60 officials. Those who have received five salary classes for four years because they are expected to end their working relationship after the end of their term of office. This means that there are 60 jobs in the human resources plan that could otherwise be employed by the new government. Let me just say, for example, that there's a third of my previous employees in my office. Other discharges shown by your client counter are due to changes in management bodies: supervisory board, Eles, Kad, Court, Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, Institute for Recent History, Film Fund. The replacements occurred in the vast majority of cases due to the duration of the mandates of the members of the Supervisory Boards, or the harmonisation of those mandates, which would have expired in the short term, or for false reasons, as in the case of the Film Fund. And most importantly, in the 17 years of transition we have, I think, all together, come to the realization that something needs to be changed if we want the best of the best to come to the positions called by the Government within their powers. If the new government had taken on old practice, I do not think they would have achieved this goal. That is why we have decided on a new practice. On Thursday, the Human Resources Accreditation Council began its work with full powers. This is a consultative body of the Government, which does not assume the responsibility of the Government, but will advise it on decisions that are important for whom to put in place in order to do its best in line with expectations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I would expect the answer in particular, because I asked whether these substitution procedures followed the human resources paradigm of the Prime Minister or not, and whether you think the human resources wheel is spinning according to your predictions. I didn't get an answer to that. Political exchanges have also taken place. A typical case is a shift, like a mag. Igor Solomon from the Magi. Janez the Dipper. You also said that old recruitment practices were being broken. However, I would like to inform you that there were no such practices in the previous mandate for policy to become president of society. And if I may recall, a few days ago, Dr Dr Draško Veselinović, a politician on the list of LDS, was also elected to the head of the New Ljubljana Bank, but he resigned from his term of office because he took the post of director in this company. And this appointment also shows that you want to take control of all other spheres besides politics. It is also said that you personally invited one of Dr. Veseinović's candidates or candidates to your office and convinced him to step down from his candidacy and that you were also offering him the post of president of another company. He also stated, for example, that he has people in his office who have different beliefs and that he cannot give them a job. We can say he doesn't want to give them a job, and that's actually some kind of special form of pressure, and he's probably going to redistribute it. Your colleague Vlačič also said after a few days that the railway management no longer enjoys his trust before he received his business report. And I ask you: How many substitutions based on this procedure, first disqualification, is this a disqualification in the eyes of the public, and then you plan liquidations or substitutions because the audit is forecasting everything through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u10	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u11	I have told the public frankly, and let me also say this to this high assembly, that the new practice will never be implemented without problems, even this new practice that we are applying has not been conceived without problems, but we are applying it and its results will be shown sooner or later. This High Council can be confident that, personally and my ministerial colleagues and colleagues, we are doing everything we can to change the practice that affected the Republic of Slovenia during the transition, because the political spoil was too large and threatened that interest, which is essential, namely to carry out important positions on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia people who are most called for it. Therefore, I will tell you once again, even if at the beginning of the mandate there were problems, temptations, pressures, all of this, we responded quickly and we set up a Human Resources Accreditation Council, which is a consultative body and will play an important role in the Government's subsequent decisions. Once again, let me tell you that, compared to the previous mandate, there have been changes that are minimal, in the future you will be able to follow a practice that will be different, I assure you, because this is a matter on which the new government policy, the new paradigm, stands or falls. I'm standing behind her. She is also behind my ministers and ministers. But I must bear in mind that they have their powers and their powers and that I must respect their sovereignty, just because they are personalities who think with their heads! And since they are sovereign figures, they must also have their own circle of authority, which they exploit and must use to do business in line with the expectations of this high assembly. So, once again, at the beginning of the mandate, we were faced with old practice, old pressure, old temptations to have the government, political parties represented in the coalition working in the old ways. We've been very hard on that. We set up a new institution, which is a consultative body. She started her job on Thursday. Keep a close eye on what will happen in the future and you will be assured that the new practice will soon be overtaken. And that's gonna be a big win for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The government's response has not satisfied me and is not satisfactory. On the contrary, they confirm that the human resources approach as announced is not being implemented. It was a performance for the public, a step that many have taken over. And the promise that no person in public office will be replaced without reasonable suspicion that he has not done his job well has been eaten or broken many times during the three months of this term. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the National Assembly, I propose that the State Assembly hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government. Examples such as Logar, Dr. Veselinovich, early replacements in supervisory boards and in corporate boards, ministers' announcements that directors no longer have their trust, cleaning up the directorates and in official places indicate that you have gone about the exchange ruthlessly, harshly, even with pressure. And a lot of new employees are jumping five pay graders for a joke. Although you stated that the establishment of the KAS reduced the pressure, on the same day Minister Lahovnik said that the KAS was not working at all. And as we've seen later, Minister Lakhovnik was absolutely right. This organ doesn't work today, that's what it says, it's just going to start working. And even when it works, it will be just a cover, just a cover for political coverage of purely political decisions. Also on the basis of your government's conclusion, a very precise list is being drawn up of all those who became employed between 3. 11. 2004 and 21. 11. 2008, so exactly in the mandate of the previous government. And according to statements, or after that census, he was captured by the name of "Squeaklist for Shooting" and is said to be very active in this area. You said old practice was breaking. You're right, because it wasn't in the previous term. A new practice is being built or built, your practice that builds on the division of "yours - ours" despite your different predictions. I propose that the National Assembly decide on the request for a debate on the response of the President of the Government. I hope that the coalition Members will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti, the Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Mr President, I ask you: How will you take action on the inaction of the accession authorities in obtaining documentation and other things when Croatia joins NATO? The fact is, we've got a whole bunch of documents and no real ones. We have received reports on the approach to NATO, signed by Secretary General Nate, first Robertson, and then by Japa de Hoop Scheffer, sent to all members. However, it was not here with the documents on which these reports were written. The fact is that NATO is a military organisation with political maps, one of the basic instruments of their operation. It is also true that Croatia sent documentation to NATO as early as May 2005, or as early as 2004, which is of course also written in this report by Secretary-General NATO of the Covenant Robertson, where the 37th paragraph of the report states, on defence plans that Croatia has completed a list of tasks relating to defence situations, including the first task of defending Croatia's territory. Several maps were attached to this document. We haven't seen any of these maps. At the time, Mr Šinkovec was Head of the NATO mission to Brussels. Now I don't know if he was incompetent, if he didn't care, but the fact is he didn't send these documents to Slovenia. Or the government is hiding them. Here are two options. And we need to see these maps. Otherwise we'll fall for it again. Interestingly, it was similar to "sitting" in history only once, and that was fatal. When British Prime Minister Chamberlain invaded Hitler in 1938 to settle matters peacefully, Hitler took over Sudetenland and, of course, we know how things got messy. I don't think we should let you get the name Mr Chamberlain got. I think that's too much. I therefore ask how you will correct the mistakes made so far in certain positions that have not been or have not wanted to do your work in favour of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u17	In Bucharest last spring, a meeting of NATO Heads of Government and Member States took place, decided to invite two new members: Albania and Croatia. Prior to that, negotiations took place, in which documentation was also submitted. I took a close look at the documentation, and there is nothing in the documentation that could be taken care of by this National Assembly. Last spring, the Slovenian Government had no reason to hold back from inviting the Republic of Croatia to NATO. I am informed today that the Committee on Foreign Policy, with the necessary majority, has proposed to the National Assembly that it ratify the Protocol on Croatia and Albania's entry into NATO. That's a good call. I'm telling you again. I think that the negotiators, at the end of the government, did their work carefully last year, there was no reservation that the Slovenian government, together with the other governments of the member states of NATO, would not invite Croatia and Albania to NATO. Now it is at the National Assembly to confirm the credibility, because at this time, from last spring until today, the circumstances that have fostered the favored position of the Slovenian government towards Croatia's entry into the NATO connection last spring have not changed in any way. I would like the National Assembly to confirm this on Thursday when it decides to ratify the Protocol with the necessary majority and to prove its maturity. Finally, it is also a question of credibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I must say that this, Mr President, was not the answer. You're talking about maturity and credibility, and I think that man is committed, especially you, to his own country. And the fact that someone in Bucharest promised some neighbouring country entry - it doesn't mean anything. This only means that they did not have any documents at the time and as I can see from your reply, even today the state of Slovenia has no relevant documents. After all, in their 2006-2007 annual national plan, Croatia peacefully used the name and title "Savudrijajska vala" in the documentation. I think that this already shows a lot about what Croatia has and what Slovenia does not have. However, Slovenia could obtain all the documentation. About our interests. See what happened in 1982 when Argentina occupied the disputed territories of the Falkland Islands or Las Islas Malvinas, as the Argentines say. The British state reacted immediately and sent soldiers 20,000 kilometres away, while our country, Slovenia, is unable to protect its citizens 100 kilometers away from Ljubljana. I think it's very embarrassing. And let us compare ourselves with Estonia, which showed a small country, a remarkable courage towards the Russians when they removed that military monument from World War II. What about us? And we don't hope to protect the hair territory. Not to talk about Greece, which has been blocked by the European Union for five years while entering the European Union, and now Greece has refused to allow Macedonia to enter the NATO Pact since 2001 - because of its name! And we are willing to kneel, even though Croatia is stealing our own Slovenian national territory, as long as it has not been stolen since World War II.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u20	Mr. President of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u21	What is important for the decision of the National Assembly on Thursday is the fact that the circumstances did not change in any way after the decision of the Slovenian Government last spring to invite Croatia to NATO. Documentation is no reason for anyone to have doubts here. You had a chance to look at it, there's no dispute in it, there's no dispute in the paperwork. I came to the Committee on Foreign Policy on Friday, and because I knew that some of the concerns, the open questions, the suspicions raised, suggested that on Friday Members and Members be allowed to look into the documentation. Nothing was hidden from the Members and Members about the documentation, even because there was nothing in the documentation that could confirm these doubts. That is why it is so important that, due to the fact that it is not last spring, we do not now have any reservations to defend us against the adoption of the Protocol. Let us use Thursday as the day when we will by our vote confirm the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia and strengthen its reputation in the international community.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr President, even now you have not answered my question and I think that Slovenia must be given an answer to these questions, which you are covering up all the time and you do not want to disclose them. The fact is that the documentation Slovenia has is not complete. The reason why my question is, too, when I asked how you will act on the inaction of the competent authorities in the supply of this documentation, I do not think we should allow the matter to go as easily as it wants to go here in Slovenia. We mustn't forget, either. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u24	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u25	I'll explain what I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u26	Would you like to make a proposal to discuss the Prime Minister's response?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u27	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u28	That's what I'm interested in. So you need to make an announcement, please, so that we all know what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u29	Mr President, I know I've taken advantage of some of my time, and I admit that you've done well, but that's what I intend to do, but I think an explanation is necessary. We must not forget what is happening to the Italians in connection with the Croats. In fact, Frattini was in Croatia about ten days ago and they signed a memorandum on the return of a thousand four hundred and seventy properties in Istria because Croatia accounts after entering the European Union to demand from Serbia that part of Zemun, which was once Croatian and in exchange for which the Belgrade Communist Party gave the Croats Slovenian Istria and Frattina is ready to take these matters back and work quietly in the back. Otherwise, it is necessary to know that the European Union is silent to prevent Croatia from entering the NATO Pact and entering the European Union. But I'm worried about the incompetence of our people who can't find these documents or won't find them. Will the Slovenian National Party really have to pay some more money to Croatia so that we can bring the documents, as we have already carried the various secret documents of similar deals up here years ago and show them in the National Assembly. I think that this is bloody sad and, therefore, Mr President, I request, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that a broad debate be held in the National Assembly in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure. I do not think that we should hide the facts from the Slovenian public and that we must not allow our craftsmen to point to this National Assembly as a publishing organisation after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zveg Jelinčič Trimenite to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have been reading a lot about the economic and financial crisis for months now. In parallel, we read the government's forecasts that it will take comprehensive measures to address this situation and solve the difficult situation from day to day. What have we done so far for the Slovenian economy? Some amendments to the laws have been prepared: a new Law on Public Finance, which is intended to provide credit institutions with financial resources that they would use to promote economic activity and to ensure adequate credit support for the economy and the population; a new Law on the Tax Procedure to relieve the economy in terms of improving liquidity flows; a new Law on Partial Full-time Subsidisation is a measure which, according to our assessment, is intended for workers, not businesses, and a new Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons which could constitute a serious burden on the economy, but by limiting the relief to EUR 30,000. These measures, in our view, are too mild, modest, and above all do not constitute any serious assistance to the Slovenian economy, which is in a very difficult situation. According to our assessment of the emerging economic and financial crisis, these measures will not be able to plague. On the other hand, we have recently heard a discussion about which official, minister or Member pays for his own lunch, coffee or cut flowers for the decoration of his desk. There has even been some kind of competition, which, with its savings proposal, will be more innovative and more popular with its voters. The fact is that these are symbolic or solidarity actions, if you want, that will not solve the problems in which we have found ourselves, but of course they are an excellent media theme. We find this debate unrealistic in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Especially because we have not yet seen a serious programme on how and how the government will save. What Is the Bible’s Word? Much has also been said in recent days about the perverse reward that the former NLB Prime Minister is expected to receive. We also read about the Minister of Justice's promises to raise wages and so on. I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: When will the government stop throwing sand into citizens' eyes and finally take seriously and responsibly to solve problems? I want to know: How does the government plan to seriously save? And: What other measures do you foresee to help the Slovenian economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u33	Let us all forget that the new Slovenian government has been doing its job for a good two months. And that is not an excuse, but it has explained that without reservation I can say that the Government has reacted quickly and concretely at this time. A while ago, the National Assembly heard government measures in which the total volume of public financial incentives in the industrial sector for 2009 is projected at EUR 858 million or EUR 2.13. This is completely comparable to the German stimulus package of the economy. Let us now look at the concrete measures that have been taken and those that we are planning. We are aware of the problem of forgiveness, so we have adopted the Act on Labour Co-financing for shortening working time. In the flat-rate amount, the State will subsidise all contributions at the expense of shorter working hours and part of the salaries of employees. The measure is intended for businesses and, of course, their real-sector employees who do not have enough orders and are therefore agreeing with workers for shorter working hours. The measure is worth €230 million, of a temporary nature and is once again completely comparable to the measures taken by some other European countries. The SID Bank has already allocated €474 million to business banks to finance investments or operating assets to businesses and public law persons. With this Slovenian economy, we are solving the problem of access to funds, which is a major problem both in the global and in the Slovenian financial market and we are giving it a new advantage. We have a promise to promote economic development. We also need to maintain our condition during the crisis. The government increased its funds to co-finance the purchase of technology equipment to small and medium-sized enterprises in 2009 by €16 million, making it possible for the economy to carry out 223 such projects instead of the 99 technology projects planned this year. This ensures the increased competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The legislation adopted so far will bring at least €150 million to the economy. With effect from 1 January 2009, the tax on paid salaries was definitively abolished and the Slovenian economy will be burdened by an additional EUR 250 million. Due to the direct unloading of the Slovenian economy, public financial sustainability suffers. That is why we started with austerity measures. On Thursday, the government will address some 30 such measures and the public will be informed of them. Also in terms of salaries and prizes, the Government recommended to the majority-owned companies of the country to cancel this year's awards. I myself, as you know, and the ministers set an example in this regard. The government is therefore working quickly and effectively. Let's see what he's planning for the future. First time. The guarantee scheme offered to banks for general lending, individual guarantees from the State for corporate indebtedness to banks, recapitalisation of the Bank's SID and the increase of the bank's SID security reserves due to the taking of direct and additional risks and exposures, a measure to promote the export activities of companies that cover: the release of non-marketable export credit and investment insurance limits and the introduction of additional forms of non-market insurance, measures for small and medium-sized enterprises on the domestic market, covering the introduction of a reinsurance scheme for the provision of short- and medium-term loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, the establishment of a financing fund for small and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia, with structural means. [[Incomprehensible.]] The necessary structural resources amount to approximately EUR 50 million. [[...]] In short, the government will meet its crisis group tomorrow, aware of the difficult circumstances in which we are. In view of the foreign policy, in particular the external circumstances that we are witnessing in the countries with which Slovenia has the most intense business contacts, we can expect further deterioration of the situation. Slovenia will react immediately to this situation with appropriate measures and, as it is said, with comparable measures taken by the companies to which we want to compare ourselves in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government, for this answer, which was very substantive. However, I just want to remind you that in this assembly, in the National Assembly, we discussed in particular the number that is intended to subsidise working time and that it is very, very overblown. In fact, if we divide it into employees for 60 euros per worker per month, the number that is too high will come. In fact, all the workers would have received these subsidies. Another thing we are actually talking about is more or less just small and medium-sized enterprises. Somehow we expect to talk about the big ones. But there was something else I wanted to lay on your heart. In my own debate, in my debate, which we had on the subject, i.e. the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, I regretted that there was a limited relief for investment. I'm telling you from practice. I was talking about a story here, and today in general. During the period of konjunkture and great optimism that was in the Slovenian economy, many presidents of administrations, many companies made demanding investments, borrowed credits for these, and time changed. I am afraid that because of this changed time and the country's failure to comply with these investments, there may be a halt to these investments, and even worse it would be for companies to fall due to these investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u37	Once again, I want to assure you that in the time that has been available to you and to us, we have not missed the opportunity to decide on the measures that we have taken and we are convinced that they are the most appropriate right now. The following months will show whether we were right or wrong. No one today can say with confidence how the crisis will continue. The first assessments show that it will be longer and deeper than it originally was. Slovenia is not currently in recession, it is one of the few countries in the euro area that has declared recession but still has positive growth. We will do everything in our power to prevent Slovenia from coming into recession. We will therefore take measures which, unfortunately, require structural changes because of fiscal resource constraints. The government will also bite at these structural changes. This will be a sour apple that will require a lot of courage and a lot of prudence and, of course, a lot of flexibility. The crisis group of ministers will start working tomorrow for the first time with a package of these measures. We'll present them to the public as soon as possible. We will discuss them with the social partners and as much as possible in this high house. We anticipate that this second package of measures will be even more successful than this first one, which, in our view, will show good results.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Mr Bojan Kontic, the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Slovenia today faces the challenges posed by the acute global economic situation, just as the whole world does. So we wrote in a coalition agreement that came at a time when we heard in this Chamber that talking about the crisis is to say that there is no crisis, and this is from those who later warned us that the Government is too slow to act and that they are doing it today. Active social partnership and strong civil society are conditions for coalition partners to make legitimate and professional decisions. I know that from the beginning of this period of government has been going on and this very intense, social dialogue, social dialogue within the Economic Social Council as well as the wider involvement of so-called civil society, where we can talk even more about social dialogue, we can talk about development dialogue. I'm asking the Prime Minister: How are these arrangements and discussions going? What are the results? And what's more important: What are the odds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u41	I was among the first party presidents to point out last year that the time of the global economy is running out and that there is a time of financial and economic uncertainty. That can be proven. I said that it is precisely because the time is coming that will be demanding that the Social Democrats decide that we want to take the responsibility, together with our coalition partners, to overcome these problems. This is because I believe that these problems can be overcome provided we have a sophisticated sense of social dialogue. Therefore, immediately after its inauguration, the Government has decided that a series of talks that want to strengthen trust among the social partners will be taken so that the burden of the economic and financial crisis will be distributed fairly and that we will all feel safe in this sense when we do so, I will say, when we go through the hard hours of change through which we will have to go out in the end as winners. We are preparing a development dialogue. We have heard and talked with employers, with employers, we have spoken with representatives of NGOs, older, younger, representatives of the University, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, and, last but not least, with representatives of agriculture, all to meet in the second half of February for a real meeting of the development dialogue, where we will assess the measures taken by the Government in return and also hear the first presentations of proposals prepared by the Government. There will be an opportunity for the social partners to say or support the government's strategic direction or not and for the government to go in order to enjoy their trust. We will also strengthen the work of the Economic Social Council, and last but not least, it is my personal desire that an agreement be reached in this National Assembly between the parties represented in this high house on our joint planning of the necessary measures to overcome the crisis and the measures necessary to launch a new development momentum through the crisis of Slovenia. In short, none of the conversations I had I regret, including the social partners who sat with us, regret him, but it took a long time. We need confidence in this country that by means of measures that will be appropriate, which will evenly and proportionately divide the burden of victory over the crisis we are going into, I think all of this deserves this patience from all sides. The government will continue to do so, and in this regard the high congregation can be confident that we will not give up on this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded our questions to the President of the Government. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The question to the Minister of the Interior will be raised by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary. In recent months, there has been quite a lot of talk in the media, as well as your statements on this subject, on the subject of so-called deleted issues and their status and resulting damages. I do not agree with the term 'extended' myself, because I know that there are many people in your ministry who, long ago, have been regulating these issues, that they have been asked and called upon to come to the congregations of that time and to arrange for a few hundred euros, but they have not done so. And that's why I can't agree to a term that was somehow imposed on this place. The second point I would like to draw your attention to is, of course, that I would like to assess that this is one which is coalitionly, I will say, continuity in this area; as also the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy in Belgrade promises so-called deleted documents and compensations. These are publicly published data, so it does not show that they are denied. Of course, I am also concerned that you have passed the legal opinion of 2003 and are completely ignoring it. But I'm even more concerned that somehow you don't take into account the referendum will of the people who made 94.6% clear what's going on with this topic. On January 20, however, the STA announced that you had also met with NGOs, told them and informed them that you had recalculated the so - called deleted ones. When I was alone in the interior ministry, as well as the government before the government Janez Janša listed 18305. Under the laws of nature, these persons should be smaller. You've listed 24 grand or about 24 grand. Of course, I am completely or completely unable to understand how this is possible, for a fundamental reason, because the counting was done by the same persons for my needs as the Secretary of State and, of course, for your needs. I don't know what you are, how they could have multiplied by 6,000. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: How did you manage to raise this number by 6,000? We'd expect fewer. That's what natural laws say. When will your rhetoric be aligned with the rhetoric of the Constitutional Judges' decision, with the need to respect the referendum will of the people who have also spoken? What kind of law do you intend to adopt in this regard? Who's going to take part in this? You mentioned NGOs. But I saw Mr. Alexander Todorovic at your house. I'm afraid it's the professional public who should be involved in writing the law. This is sometimes the practice in this area. And I'm asking you to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u44	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u45	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The question of a Member arises, whether knowingly or unwittingly, from the wrong assumption. In Slovenia, there has never been a referendum on whether a decision of the Constitutional Court should be enforced and whether it is necessary for the deleted to recover the status which has been withdrawn in contravention of the Constitution. The legal fact is that at the referendum, the so-called technical law was rejected by the electorate and the electorate. Therefore, the issue of supplementary decisions on the basis of law and not on the basis of a constitutional decision. This law was rejected by the people at the referendum. However, before this referendum, the Constitutional Court stated in its decision that, irrespective of the outcome of the referendum, the Ministry of the Interior was obliged to implement the Constitutional Court decision. We are not therefore preparing a technical law which was rejected at the referendum, but we will follow the Constitutional Court's decision. We will issue those supplementary decisions that need to be issued in the light of the Court's decision. So, for people who already live legally in Slovenia. The status for the remaining deleted will be regulated by a special substantive law that will go through the necessary governmental and parliamentary procedures. With regard to the procedures themselves, I would like to stress that we are taking the decisions of the Constitutional Court seriously and professionally, so we would like to obtain comprehensive information on the number of persons directly concerned by the decision. The data will be complete tomorrow. Technical arrangements for the issue of decisions are also under way in the competent services. The first aggregated data provided by the MNZ professional services were identical to the data circulated in the public over the years. When the expert services began to analyse the data on the national, civil and age structures that I also wanted for a comprehensive examination of the problem, the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs found that there were some discrepancies in the various records and using different methodologies. It should also be borne in mind that it has been 17 years since it was deleted. That during this time the information system in which the data are located has been exchanged by the controller, formerly managed by the police, is now managed by the administrative department. Some data should be reviewed manually, in the files. In the last week, professional services have devoted much attention and work to the problems. I assure them that the new data is correct, certainly better than the number that has been circulating so far, that is just over 18,000. Based on the intermediate data I received, the number of deleted is more than 20,000, and the exact number will be known in a short time, i.e. tomorrow, when the possible duplicate entries in different records will be checked on the basis of different laws. In addition to the above data from the administrative department, we have also obtained records of the police's expulsion and refusal of entry into the Republic of Slovenia on this subject. Unfortunately, these are severely flawed because most of these records were destroyed in 2000, and in part the removal procedures were carried out without written decisions and decisions, in accordance with the dispatches issued by the MNZ at the time of deletion. You're also asking what kind of marriage is in preparation. In preparation, there is a law which, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court, has to lay down the conditions for the provision of status to those who are currently not in regulated status in the Republic of Slovenia or who have had to leave Slovenia or have been prevented from returning to Slovenia for deletion. The draft provides for individual treatment to obtain status and will not grant citizenship or compensation to anyone. The text has not been completed yet. However, the professional public is involved in the drafting of the law. We have consulted several legal experts and representatives of NGOs who have been dealing with the problem of deleted for many years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, are you requesting a follow-up? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u47	Yes, of course, thank you very much for simply answering something that I haven't asked you at all. But I'm asking you again to answer that part of the question where I'm also asking you for damages. In fact, you keep stressing that this has nothing to do with compensation. Of course, it's not in the Ministry of the Interior, but what you're about to issue will be used in compensation claims to be paid by our people. Second. Dr. Trpin, Dr. Pirnat, Dr. Iglicar, Dr. Cerar, Dr. Kouchič, Dr. Tone Jerovšek, Dr. Bučar, Dr. Žagar, Dr. Grad, distinguished constitutional lawyers - I assume that you were also taught in college, not because I am not a lawyer, but still - they wrote very clearly in 2003 that a constitutional decision cannot be a legal basis or that it is extremely controversial to issue decisions. So you're going absolutely against them as if they weren't legal experts. Don't tell me they're right-handed because I don't think they are, because then I could say they're left-handed. For me, they are the right legal experts, so once again I am asking you: Why does the Ministry of the Interior not believe or why do you not believe all these people who have made it very clear that it is extremely controversial to issue decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u49	So, I'm sorry that you so tirelessly politicize and "demagogize" the issue of compensation. No one on your part, no one on any other side has yet done any relevant research on the potential danger of compensation at all. This is now the first time in the Ministry of the Interior. We are preparing a thorough analysis of how many procedures are under way, how many procedures have been successfully completed so far. And at this point, no proceedings have yet been successfully completed. On this basis, we will also carry out an analysis of the legal basis and what the possible decisions on this matter mean. It's too much of a serious professional question to just wrap your left hand around it. And as for the legal experts who cooperated. I think that the discussion of whether nine professors of the Faculty of Law or 13 constitutional judges are more right is out of place. And some have changed their minds in the meantime. For example, Mr. Pirnat. And it is not possible to release Mr Jambrek and Mr Sturm, who are among those constitutional judges who supported this decision. And it would also be easy for me to come here today with, not just one, including a number of legal opinions that would contradict the legal opinion that you are referring to. And yet we're not here for the professors to argue. It is a matter of the Government's duty to comply with the constitutional decision. It's our marriage, it's our moral duty. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u51	Yeah, sure. Now I agree with the Minister. It's a simple professional question, for sure. However, this issue will eventually hit our people's pockets, and those who go to work for 500 euros don't know whether they'll get them or not. And because this is a very serious professional question in this area, which will have great consequences for our people at the expense of the people, but we are talking about people who didn't want to, I am talking mostly -- they didn't want to, they didn't want to, and they speculated. They weren't willing to give 300 dollars to fix it. And many documents and calls were rejected by the congregations of that time to come and arrange documents, but they were not. Today, we will give them a simple gift. Let me remind you of a naked comparison, a naked comparison. Sixty years and so many years after World War II, many people do not have a regulated status as a victim of war violence. All these people, left or right, are writing applications, writing applications, competing for their status, and someone will have to arrange their status in the process. And you, like your predecessor, will send a few thousand people a gift in the form of a decision. And this gift will be cut down on the pocket of hardworking people. That's not good. And since this is not good, I propose that we discuss this issue in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, for a fundamental reason this is not just a simple proposal for television broadcasting, but it is certainly a proposal because it is of interest to all of us, but especially to all of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister for Environment and Space will be put by Mr Only Bevk. Since the Minister is away, I'm asking him if he'll still ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! By building the highway cross, some parts of Slovenia have become better and more accessible, thus allowing for faster development. Some areas, however, lose their development potential because of their distance from the highway cross. This is why the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 also provides for the modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes on the third, third and fourth development axes. The remote areas, which are expected to be close to the motorway cross, include mainly Koroška, Bela krajina, Kočevsko and northern Primorska. Unfortunately, however, the introduction of new routes of state roads and the adoption of spatial documents poses many problems. According to some data, no spatial act has been adopted since 2005 to place new routes of state roads in the area, with the exception of certain projects under the motorway programme. On 8 September 2006, according to more than two years ago, the Ministry of Environment and Space organized the first spatial conference, which presented the draft programme for the preparation of the state site plan for the construction of the Cerkno-Hotavlje State Road and the Gorenje Village Oblast. The section between Cerknim and Hotavljavi also provides for a tunnel connection that connects the Upper Valley with Gorenjska and central Slovenia. For quite some time there are also various passages of tunnels, so I ask Minister Karl Erjavac: At what stage is the procedure for the adoption of spatial acts for the installation of a new road and tunnel link between Primorska and Gorenjska within the framework of the fourth development axis? What is the timetable until the adoption of the State's site programme, as that project is included in the country's development plans? In addition, I ask the Minister: How will they speed up procedures for the adoption of state-level location plans on the third, third and fourth development axes? Given that Mr Minister is absent today, please respond to my first next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy will be raised by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u55	Honourable President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister, ministers, also, on my behalf, a nice greeting! In the second half of last autumn, Europe faced the consequences of the global financial crisis, as well as in part Slovenia. At that time, we have predicted that if there are no swift and decisive measures, this will quickly move into the economic sector, into the real sector. Later, it usually turns into a social crisis and so on. During the time of the Intergovernmental Government, when the outgoing government was in business, we prepared some measures. We've aligned some with the incoming government. I'm talking about the Banking Act and the Public Finance Act. But these measures were only partially, in my opinion, taken. I have to say, the Banking Act has been taken into custody. People kind of left money in banks. They didn't get in any more trouble with that. However, the Public Finance Act, which was intended to encourage the functioning of the interbank market and, in fact, the functioning of financial institutions at all, was unfortunately not intercepted. Additional measures are likely to be needed. This is also my first question to the Minister of Finance: Are you assessing that the measures taken to operate the interbank market have been taken, and what measures does it plan to take if it does not? The opposition here proposed some additional proposals to increase the liquidity of businesses, reduce the country's payment deadlines, then also accelerate the return of overpaid VAT and so on. Unfortunately, these proposals did not run into approval and approval. Of course, this crisis has also taken place in Slovenia, as Slovenia opened up the economy, quickly turned into an economic crisis. Here we have proposed certain measures, more or less development-oriented measures, which would allow for investment in research, development and technological equipment. These measures, too, were only partially taken into account by the position, let's say symbolically. However, other measures of a more or less remedial nature have taken place on a day-to-day basis, subsidising full-time work with an overestimation of the financial consequences, welcome in recent times, the measures of some kind of savings that do not have a serious economic weight and will not bring much unless the whole public sector is tangulated. I therefore ask the Minister of Economy: Do you consider that the measures taken, including those adopted by the Government at the last meeting, are sufficient? If they're not, which one does he plan for the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you very much for a good question. Nicely greeted in the high choir. Slovenia has embarked on a financial crisis essentially in a partnership way. We have already taken the first steps in the law during a time when we did not have governments or when we had a government that did only current business. We received them in this composition of the National Assembly, partnerly. And also with the December session, where they were presented, the measures discussed to remedy the consequences and to move to a new development cycle, we confirmed them again in essence at the National Assembly. Later on, we discussed how many public funding options are still available, given the limitations of the Stability and Growth Pact, a 3% share of the government deficit in the gross domestic product in order to relieve some investors. And then here we were confined mainly to small and micro-enterprises, which we estimate are still under the most severe blow to make loans even harder. The measures have four dimensions. The first is to ensure security in the financial sector; the second is to release the interbank market; the third is fiscal incentive; and the fourth is to convert or achieve the Lisbon objectives. The first measure, the prevention of banking panic, was fully implemented. It was implemented on a partner level and I can, I think, share all the political options between them. The second measure has all the legal grounds to run. I must say that the prevention of the so-called 'credite crunch' or the shock in the interbank market, the mutual lending arising from mistrust, has not been able to penetrate any other country, particularly the interstate market. For us it is bound to issue bonds of the state of Slovenia, which is currently in progress. If this is successful, we expect that larger banks with State guarantees will be able to obtain adequate resources, if not, but will have to act in alternative ways. We have more options prepared, running at the same time, so in this case we will be successful as soon as possible. I must say that it is very important for us to be a stable country, slightly in charge of having a low share of public debt in gross domestic product, even a reduction in recent years, and only in the euro area, and that we are also in a stable partnership that is linked to our membership in NATO. In this context, I see the possibility that we will acquire the appropriate credit funds and that we will also be able to effectively intervene with them in the financial system, not so much will we devote to financing the deficit, but we will aim to break this "credit cruncha" of this shock caused by mistrust in the interbank market. The fiscal stimulus was largely adopted by the previous structure of Parliament, which was a whole series of laws that constituted tax reliefs, or some improvements, such as the situation of children in kindergartens, student diets and so on, which the current economic policy has maintained. While the Lisbon objectives are being introduced, the budget is being rebalanced. This will come to the parliamentary debate shortly after the government's meeting on 19 February. In this Lisbon strategy, you will see that we are increasing funds, already slightly increased by an additional EUR 65 million at the Ministry of Higher Education and Technological Development, in particular to promote technological development, then we are increasing funds by 71 million at the Ministry of Economy, in particular to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, not so much investment, but also investments, but in particular development activities, the introduction of new products. The capital already institutionally established under the previous economic policy will now be filled with EUR 30 million so that it can start to promote the creation of new enterprises, quality, high-tech enterprises. We are additionally providing €30 million for urgent cultural projects, and we are also promoting creativity in this area. What has been said is to save jobs and improve the social situation of the people affected, but it will require an additional EUR 400 million. So this is going to come into balance. You will have a chance to debate, but I remind you that the situation is very tense, because we still have to keep the three-percent deficit threshold in GDP. Investors on the global market are extremely careful about this stability of public finances. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u58	Unfortunately, the Minister of Economy was unable to respond because time had run out. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that we have taken some action in a certain partnership at the start. According to my assessment, we would be taking better or at least stronger measures, including more extensive measures, if we kept the partnership going. I hope that it will fulfil what is in some way a desire to establish a partnership for development 2+10 on these issues and, of course, to participate in these topics, which are exceptional. I see you're in the position that what works, we've somehow done more or less together. And we should do it more quickly and more decisively together. Among these measures, which have been listed, I have observed that a new idea follows through the balance sheet or through this expenditure portion of the budget. This, of course, is not the unloading and some reinvestment of profits, as stated in the Coalition Treaty, but is a selective division on the relevant tenders. For the first time, this will work relatively late, towards the end of the year, because after the call for proposals, contracts and initial investments will not be possible until the end of the year. Secondly, the issue of bias is being raised. And the third thing is interesting. These millions for technological development, small and medium-sized enterprises need a supplement in companies themselves. These are linked to financial markets and these financial markets are not working. Even through the SID of the bank and other financial institutions, you should not support these same projects, as you then support the same thing twice through state aid. I want to say that we have expected and proposed measures aimed at decommissioning the economy, in particular tax burdens and unlimited possibilities for reinvestment of profits, not as unfortunately with a limit. Therefore, of course, one more thought about these. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much for supplementing your question. I must say that in imitation of the best development practice of the small open economies of Europe or the members of the European Union that we want to follow, however, there is a development policy that promotes the growth of certain expenditure on the development and implementation of technologies in the most competitive part of the economy by increasing competitiveness, which runs through calls for proposals in these R & D subsidies and the implementation of this development in enterprise technology; these are examples of Finland, such as Austria. It is easy to do a little bit, but it abstains mostly from the structure that already exists. With us, it would be a trade, perhaps a pharmaceutical company, and perhaps one part of the financial sector, and less the part that we expect the breakthrough to actually take place. This is for potential new exporters and existing exporters. There's a lot bigger reserves here. The coalition contract actually says 30% relief. We are strategically counting on it to be introduced, we believe that we will also have sufficient support after the end of the crisis, very likely in 2010, this is also in the Ministry of Finance's plan. A similar relief will be given to the purchase of apartments and the return of this relief, which will facilitate the situation for young families.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Does the Minister of Economy want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u63	I would now like to add briefly to the question of a Member who, as of October, said there is no crisis and there will be no crisis. And that's when I had to comment. On one point, however, we agree that the first wave or the first part of the bank deposit guarantees were particularly good, but that the second part of the interbank market guarantees did not come into play. As far as the Ministry of Economy's actions are concerned, I would just like to explain what has happened and what has happened so far. One thing was that we increased the funds to co-finance the purchase of technological equipment to small and medium-sized enterprises in 2009 by €16 million, which supported one hundred and twenty-four projects reported more than they could be supported by the originally projected volume of the funds. The invitation was very inappropriate. In the first week of February, a new call will also allow co-financing of the purchase of technological equipment, which, in addition to co-financing of the purchase of technological equipment, will also allow the co-financing of operating assets, because the fact is that I agree here that liquidity is one of the key problems that needs to be addressed at this point in time also in this way. SID Bank is a business [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Banks have already allocated €474 million to finance investments or operating assets to businesses and public law persons. [[...]] However, it is true that we are in the process of rebalancing and this is the next lever allowing further [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would, of course, suggest that a broader discussion be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 on the answers of both ministers. This is mainly because obviously we need to discuss this in Parliament, although it could probably be within some, say, partnerships as we used to do, and it was effective. Look, first of all, it's a big problem to abuse my words. The minister here mistakenly claimed that I had ever said there was no crisis and there will be no crisis. I was saying there's no recession and there won't be. Of course, if we took good action in time. The recession is not yet in Slovenia, and it is not predicted, and I hope it will not. Of course, this is up to you and is your responsibility. I hope because of the slowness and inappropriateness of action, you won't be saying in six months that I was wrong when I said there would be no recession. Look, I think it's true that developmental action is needed, not rescue action by some kind of fire extinguisher. But all the laws you've adopted, all the measures you've taken, have gone in the sense of some kind of rehabilitation. Full-time subsidies are a typical example of a passive policy in this area and a relatively short period of time and restraint in the adoption of other proposals reducing taxes and introducing tax incentives for investments have, of course, been rejected. Not in small and medium-sized enterprises, that is not true, you went to independent entrepreneurs here following the opposition's proposal, which is good, but unfortunately not in capital companies or in another segment of the economy, which can also be a very important segment of the small economy. Here I have a specific example of a company wishing to invest in high-tech equipment. A company with three employees wants to purchase a machine worth half a million euros, which is nothing for high-tech equipment, but because of your 30 000-euro constraints, any such ambition is absolutely impossible. I would therefore like this debate to define the Parliament, as well, as regards the appropriateness of the Government's action. On the one hand, with some popular coffee moves and the like, it has no economic serious consequences and no sense, and on the other hand, the economy calls more or less helplessly for help and is looking for measures. Unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia is increasing. That's what worries me. It will increase even more if the economy does not receive clear signals, how to proceed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] All these calls will be when they are, and it will only be by the end of the year. [[...]] I hope there's anything else I can give you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy to his question of the mission, will decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As you have already mentioned, I have a question for the distinguished Minister of the Republic of France, Mr Križanič. Above all, I would touch on a topic that excites the Slovenian public, Mr Marjan Kramar, NLB and such a high discharge. As a Member, and I am sure that most Slovenian citizens, too, find such a thing unacceptable for the Slovenian situation. However, it is quite clear to me that some of the statements I have seen in the press show that you are in real trouble now, Mr Minister. But it is also true that you have received this state of affairs and that we expect it to respond appropriately. Question is: Why does the Government, as a representative of the majority owner of NLB, in our opinion, behave irresponsibly to its representatives, whom you have appointed to the supervisory board? When the government appoints its overseers to the supervisory councils, does this also end its responsibility for their actions and its responsibility as the owner of the society to the events in and about it? Second question: Do you intend to establish and request the personal responsibility of Mr Anton Žunič, who, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, has signed such a morally controversial and irresponsible contract on the basis of which we are currently discussing a million-dollar award? And not the last third question. Here we are of the opinion that the Government could take more decisive action and still have time to act. This is the question: The prize that Mr Kramar expects under the contract is linked to the positive business of the bank. Since we are talking about a huge reward, it is obvious that NLB has been doing excellent work under the leadership of Mr Kramar. So Mr. Kramar was an excellent and above-average successful manager. That is why, Mr. Secretary, we ask ourselves, why do we change this successful manager in such a way, because it seems to us that it would be wiser for a gentleman to let the matter go forward and maybe, at the time that it is coming, to sign more smart contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u68	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Supervisors in the financial institution act in accordance with the law, their knowledge, their conscience as good masters. They may consult individual owners, but they are not only responsible to owners, to all owners, and are also responsible to all stakeholders, i.e. employees and buyers, or in this case to borrowers and depositors in the bank. I think the supervisor has done his work according to the best possible conscience, there are different professional profiles, including very highly qualified auditors. The Bank’s Supervisory Board had its strong audit committee. The Bank has a strong internal audit and has a quality external audit. During this period it grew rapidly and the dividend policy was quite as I would say, generous to the owners, and accordingly the awards of the administration were higher than expected by the signatory. The signatory to this contract during the period when the contract was signed did not expect this variable, which was the main indicator of the performance of the members of the administration, to be so high in individual years. Nor did he expect that a member of the board would pay the prize and that everything would eventually be gathered upon his departure. Mr. Mag. Tone Žunič is an extremely important person in the field of Slovenian banking, a great expert in risk management in particular. That is why I invited him to participate in risk management with regard to the allocation of funds that we will raise on the capital market and put them through the financial system. In addressing the financial crisis, I have said that, above all, our country is now entering the financial markets. So the complications that now arise in this regard are the result of some branding, which I think is unjustifiable, unrealistic and creates the consequence of some of the feelings that have now driven people to anger, have not completely changed their minds. That contract, which was signed, was signed on the assumption that the prizes would be substantially smaller so that they would be as they were in the past. Mr Kramar didn't run for office, it seems, is not true that he would have been relieved prematurely. It's not true that whatever he was told not to be, he decided not to run. That is why the Supervisory Board has initiated a process of running for the new administration. He had to hurry with this because he waited until the election of the new government. Now we have this new president, I hope he will be successful, is a man with great knowledge, a man who has established an organised market for Slovenian capital, who has successfully run a smaller bank and is a professor of banking at Ljubljana's economic college, and I think that this situation will be a piece of business, and the owners will stand by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Request for an update of the Minister's reply. Please, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. Look, I'm still having some more questions. quote: "They act or act as good masters." I don't know if you think such a contract is in line with the principle of a good master. And then, "the contract signer didn't expect it." It is not possible and wise to limit the upper limit of these awards. Look, I was looking at the ownership structure. Slovenia 36, Kbc 34, Kad 5, Case 5, shareholders 5. Any good host, including Kbc, will see that the bank will be as profitable as possible, that it will have the costs with the prizes as little as possible and I am sure that both Slovenian owners and Kbc would most likely look in this direction. I am not sure about those things that say that there are not many good experts in Slovenia who can take this matter. But there is something else to be said. But I wonder if this thing is really that good. We know that an agreement between banks, including the NLB, is to postpone payment to some who have been credited here and bonds and so on. This already shows that most likely the wisest was not taken by this bank, and they also come up with any amounts of rewards and withdrawals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The fact is that the contract was signed according to the standards that apply in the most developed part of Europe for bank rewards. Under this influence, this treaty was designed in this way. As it is said, it was not expected to have such a great effect. When it became apparent that such an effect had taken place, then the new supervisory council tried to restrict this contract, but the other signatory, as far as I know, did not agree to it. But it's a relationship that's internal, so I don't think you can comment on it. As far as this is concerned, an attempt has been made, but in the context of the rule of law, as it does in accordance with the rule. If you want to see what it's like to mismanage your capital, then you'll have to look at the balance sheet of the Soda. Then you will have to look at how watered the Court, how much capital it has lost in just one year of the Court, and you will see that what banks now have to extend and which loans. Some are morally controversial. That's why it's a problem. But as for the stability of the banking system, they're not. But the court actually sold Mercator and bought [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] There's no question about that. [[...]] And it's just going to run, it's going to recover anyway, and it's going to be at Kadu, who's going to lose a lot, and it's going to be great at the Court, which has lost a lot, I think. [[...]] Times are hard. Some credits will get worse, they will have to be resolved by extending, something may have to increase reservations. There will probably be no profit this year, but it will go all the way to reinvesting in order to increase the stability of these institutions. But it is at such a time that we must expect, and I hope that some support from owners will also have these institutions to pass these stormy times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u75	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, Members of Parliament! The government has decided to reform the public health system in order to make health services more accessible to all, regardless of social, geographical and other differences. Some health institutions that are geographically away from our capital city, Ljubljana, could be trained, and have proved this in the past, in providing some important health services to patients without the need for continued transport to the capital. As an example, I'm going to point out what I know better. The first case from Primorska is a hospital in Šempeter, which has been working for several years to recognise or gain agreement on the implementation of the cancer programme, including chemotherapy, or to work for the hospital in Izola in the framework of public health care to finally offer quality cardiosurgery, also trained for emergency surgical interventions, which a private person operating in the hospital cannot offer. Similarly, the issue of centralised or decentralised dialysis is a matter of a service that may be relatively close to those directly affected. Rational decentralisation of health care and some specialised health services would undoubtedly bring health care closer to patients and reduce the risk and burden of patients due to transport. At the same time, it is probably necessary to think about a health network that will be rational, but patients are comfortable, in a manner consistent with the expected regionalisation of the country. I therefore ask you: Is the Ministry of Health planning to decentralise the health network in the spirit of specialising in health care institutions and at the same time bringing health services closer to patients? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u77	Dear President, honourable Members! Basically, my answer to your question is positive. The Ministry of Health, in terms of reform, is currently preparing an amendment or a practical new text of the Health Activity Act. The Ministry is preparing a new text of the Health and Health Insurance Act and we are also working on a network of basic and hospital health activities. In our starting point, it is definitely to facilitate the accessibility of insurers to individual services and, of course, to quality services. It is therefore envisaged that the new legislation would allow regional hospitals to specialise in their direction in order to have access to the highest quality service in a given area. In the network of hospitals in Slovenia we need to take into account some of the important facts that have happened recently in our country, that the construction of the road network makes access to the centres where we have regional hospitals significantly easier. We want to make it possible by dividing work, by specializing in a particular area, to enable the insured person to have the safest and best health care. I understand your question in this part. However, if we ask for some of the services of special hospitals that we have in Slovenia, we have not yet found any objection to any insured person from Slovenia rejecting an operational intervention at a special hospital in Valdoltra, because it is somehow generally acknowledged that this is the hospital, which, besides, I do not know, the Maribor Centre, the Ljubljana orthopaedics, the Celje orthopaedics, performs the most operations. This is how we work in the preparation of legislative changes to enable the most secure and quality health care by specialising in a regional hospital for individual areas. Unfortunately, all hospitals in Slovenia cannot, we are too small, do the same quality of service in all areas, such as in some ways the current situation. The financial framework of the available resources also makes it clear that, through better organisation and rationalisation in the network, we give priority and emphasis to basic health care, by dividing work into hospital activities, we make the most available services available.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will raise a question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and his colleagues. The 2002 Student Food Subsidisation Act establishes the right of students to a subsidised diet and method and the criteria for subsidisation. In 2007, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which expresses the amount of the grant for a student diet meal nominally, amounting to 2.32 and today, when it was coordinated, slightly more. In accordance with the law, applicants of subsidised student diet shall select the Ministry of Public Procurement in accordance with the rules on the implementation of the budget. Representatives of the contractor shall participate in the invitation to tender, in this case the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The invitation to tender shall take into account the quality of food and its price as a priority criterion. With effect from 1 January this year, a new invitation from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs entered into force in the field of student nutrition, which will be valid until the end of 2010, and consequently the entry into force of a new list of student nutrition providers and the revised student voucher prices. The new price list excited a number of students, as some vouchers were also raised by 100%. The response of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Student Organisation of Slovenia to the issue was more of a medal, while students express their resentment in many online forums and, as far as I know, with a petition they have already given you. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we have proposed concrete conclusions, but the coalition Members have adopted less binding and very general conclusions. I would therefore like to ask: Were you familiar with the increase in student voucher prices when signing contracts with subsidised student nutrition providers? How do you intend to proceed with the second part of the tender and the second round of tenders to be held this summer? What measures do you foresee by the Ministry that future increases in the price of vouchers would not occur by the bidders? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u81	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. The answers to the questions raised are as follows. We were informed of student fees on the basis of a new invitation to tender. Price increases occurred mainly for two reasons. The first is that two years have not increased, despite the fact that the prices of products consisting of student meals have increased dramatically during this period. The second is that we wanted to increase the quality and variety of this diet also to the wishes of the students who participated in the invitation to tender. And that's what we've achieved with this invitation to tender. In this regard, I should also add that on the basis of the situation as it is now, 80% of the meals offered by the tenderers are more than 400, which are cheaper than three euros. In fact, these are more exceptional cases of a higher price increase than a massive increase in the price of student diet. As far as the new call for proposals is concerned, we will do it as transparent as we did the first, with the cooperation of users. In doing so, we will be careful that those gathered in the right invitation to tender will not be able to report at a new price higher than before. This is one of the measures to avoid price escalation. We will also amend or supplement the rules setting out the student diet or everything about it, where we will determine the percentage of the voucher in the full price, thus limiting the price rise, and together with the students also determine the maximum price as already set out in this invitation to tender. I think we need to rely here on the opinions and views of the student representatives who somehow assess what students want and what they can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgl will raise the question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister of Higher Education! About two months ago, news of the intimidation of public servants in your ministry was reported in the media, as well as some warnings about the unacceptable pressures exerted by the Ministry's management on public servants. That is why I also sent you a letter in December 2008 asking you about the bullying of a staff member within your ministry. I received your answer, but despite the fact that it is a subject which I think is extremely delicate and sensitive only a few days ago. This actually points to some kind of ignorant attitude that you have on these issues and on this issue, which of course is not good. Despite the general explanations in your reply, I believe that there are still some open questions and uncertainties. In your reply, you also wrote down the following statement or statement, quote: "On the basis of all the information gathered, I did not come to the conclusion that there was a particular case of bullying or mobbing." Interestingly, it was clear from the media records that the Secretary-General of the Ministry should have requested different reports from the staff member on how it led the procedure relating to the entry of the New University into the register of higher education institutions. And more. It was the right interrogation methods. Among other things, she had to answer the question of who she knew she could have come to the ministry, even though we know that education and expertise were the only criteria for this. She also had to identify herself by name to the people who were employed in the cabinet of the former minister. It is interesting to note, however, that this discussion with a public servant employed by the Directorate has been carried out by the Secretary-General of the Ministry, although this is not within his competence under Article 19 of the Law on State Administration. In response to my letter, you also replied that you have given yourself the attention and the task of regulating the situation at the Ministry to the best of your ability by ensuring a normal working environment that will make it possible for employees to feel so well at work as well as to carry out their quality work. Therefore, the Minister of Higher Education, I am interested in the following: with what specific information have you been able to come to such a conclusion, since your decision on non-sharpness is not supported by available information? And secondly: How will you prevent such violations from happening in your ministry in the future? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you so much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, with this question at all! Look, at the Ministry where I've been good for 60 days, I've come across a very bad situation. I also spoke publicly about this because I was very surprised. And he talks a lot about the ignorance of those who have actually produced this bad situation and kept the entire mandate at the very least. This was clearly a long - term climate of fear and mistrust, strange advancements, perceptions, bullying, even a mobile in recent years. Unoccupied were key positions, heads of staff affairs, finance, legal affairs or even more than two years of the sector for higher education, which is a key sector. These are all indicators or signs that also confirm other important indicators. In the previous mandate, this ministry, which counts as a good 130 people, left 88 people, and 109 people came forward. During the previous term of office or last year, 130 people employed in this ministry stayed on hospital leave for 1,500 days. This actually speaks of a great ignorance, it speaks of some terrible lack of feeling about how to take care of the atmosphere in some area. And when I learned that, of course, I decided, as I wrote to you, that this would be one of my priorities. In particular, because I want us to do our tasks, for which the Government and ministers have also sworn before this assembly, in a qualitative manner. This cannot, however, be done without cooperation, full involvement of employees at the Ministry, which must receive all support and appropriate treatment in this regard. I've announced activities in this area. I've also met unions who haven't had any contact with the head of the Ministry in years. Moreover, the basic agreement on the operation of the union at the Ministry, none of the last two ministers or ministers was ready to sign. We will now also deal with this so that trade union activity at the Ministry will be allowed and allowed. In doing so, I have also ordered the Secretary-General to prepare a strategy to prevent the improper treatment of employees in the Ministry as part of measures to help anyone who feels in this mandate, in any way improperly dealt with, be given adequate protection, treatment and that the people who feel this would also be encouraged to clear things open and protected in the proceedings. Of course, any question raised by staff superiors in certain specific matters that raise doubles and questions, especially in the case mentioned, cannot be declared bullying and not mobile. This would lead very quickly to the question being declared by the ministers in Parliament as something similar. I think that in this particular case, when I had an interview with everyone involved, including the person who, by the way, never mentioned a document of the Ministry in public with a name and surname, this was done on the other hand, including the person accused of acting improperly, and also with the third person who was present at the meeting, the lawyers from the legal service who made a record of this meeting immediately after the meeting. When I wrote all these documents together, and when I examined the whole thing, I couldn't ask the question of whether it was mobile. Last but not least, maritally defined mobbing means repeated suffering, intimidation and so on. It was the first meeting of this staff member with the Secretary-General, the former Secretary-General. First and only. Very unusual. And this also raised some of the questions raised in this interview, not as something to answer, but as an opportunity to answer some of the uncertainties in the registration procedure of the New University, which in the meantime the court found was unlawful. And this also requires the Ministry to determine how such illegality can occur.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Request to complete the response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u87	Of course, I'm not happy with your answer, your esteemed Minister of Higher Education. It is unheard of that you apologize for mobbing or bullying with past conditions in the Ministry, and this employee I spoke of before was not even employed there. Therefore, I would like to ask you one more question: Did you, as chairman of the above-mentioned conduct, the Secretary-General, notify the State Prosecutor, the police and also the Ombudsman, given that you know that, under Article 197 of the Code, mobbing or torture in the workplace is a crime? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u88	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I think it was necessary to illustrate the whole situation in the ministry in a broader way, in which the case also took place. I, in my description, did not understand the elements of the crime that the Penal Code envisages because the basic assumption of this crime is that it is repeated for a longer period of time. However, it was the first and only meeting of these two persons, with the content itself confirmed from several sources, including by a third party, I will say to the non-involved, persons, does not attach this staff member to the context of this meeting. That's not how I did it. But I do know that when you asked me a question, you also informed the Ombudsman. So it seems to me that whatever procedure continues, things will be cleared up accordingly. However, it was in my opinion that it was in the interest of this employee, because in this particular case she referred to strange things in the official notes, which are part of the New University's file of entry into the register that she had written some official notes over the course of two days. These are the only official notes in this case that describe the fact that she was repeatedly called from the Cabinet of Ministers to ask her how she was appealed to for the urgency of this entry. This interview, in view of the decision taken in the meantime by the defence and later by the courts, was intended only to supplement that report, which it had previously submitted on the course of proceedings, with its opinion on the interventions it had received. It is unusual for her to point out these things by herself, which would have led me to doubt whether she was allowed to conduct this registration procedure in accordance with the law and correctly or not, to receive certain regulations from the Ministry's management. And that's all it was meant to be, and that was the key to finding the answer to the question of whether there was another background for this disputed entry. My intention to make things right at the Ministry is firm and I will be happy to support your committee and the National Assembly fully in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole will raise the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u91	Hello, both of you, to the Minister, to the Minister, to the distinguished President of the National Assembly and to the colleague and colleague present! At last December's meeting with the Minister of Finance, Dr. Francet Križanič, in addition to other pressing problems in the field of the economy, the Economic Chamber of the Dolenjska and the White Landscape stressed the importance of the installation and construction of the transport link of the third development axis in the area of Dolenjska and the White Region, which is a prerequisite for the progress of the economy, especially in the area of the White Region, but also of course for the whole of Slovenia, where there is no quality transport link, as already mentioned by fellow Member Samo Bevk. The claim of the economists and their appeal is particularly true because in the area of Dolenjska and White Region they have the seat of a company that is very important in a wider Slovenian and international space such as Krka, Revoz, Trimo, Adria, TPV, Kolpa, Danfos and other companies. Emphasis was placed on the urgent need for a so-called ring or bypass around the New City and further connection with the White Krajina, namely y krak on the one hand towards Metlika and the international border crossing of Metlik, and on the other hand towards Semič, Montenegro and the international crossing of Vinica. Let me also say that the Republic of Croatia already has a selected contractor for the construction of a fast road from the international border crossing of the Jurovski Brod-Metlik to the intersection of Novi Grad, this is until the connection of the highway network Zagreb-Reka-Split. Especially important is the quality transport link of the Lower and White landscapes to central Slovenia. On the necessity and the need to unify the course of the third development axis from Dolenjska to Belo Krajina, they have already appealed to all three Belarusian mayors and Mayor of the municipalities of Črnomelj, Metlik and Semič, Minister of Environment and Space and Minister of Transport. The unification of the third development axis in the southern part would constitute the basis for the preparation of spatial plans for the course of the third development axis road link and the basis for placing the route into the space and the end of the approval of the national location plan for that route by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The question to the Minister is: On 3 July 2008, there was an unification of all three Belarusian municipalities on the route of the so-called southern part of the third development axis with Dolenjska to Belo Krajina. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: When will the Ministry of Environment and Space present a concrete timetable for the preparation of spatial plans for the Third Development Axis course in Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, including the approval of the national location plan for this route? In the absence of the Minister, I ask for an oral reply at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister will respond to the next meeting. Now Mr Alexander Zorn will ask the Minister of Culture the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Secretary! Plečnik's markets in Ljubljana were by a decree published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 14. Ten. 2008 and entered into force 15. Ten. 2008, temporarily declared a cultural monument of national importance. The provisional declaration shall be valid for 12 months. This validity of the provisional declaration may be extended in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage or be amended to permanent protection. Therefore, I ask you: What are the activities of the Ministry of Culture in relation to a state-owned monument, such as Plečnik's markets, because you have announced to the public that you will withdraw the decree? What does that mean? We all know, and it is publicly said that the Ljubljana County wants to dig a huge hole there and make garages. The architect Plečnik is the largest Slovenian architect so far. That is to say our identity, without which the past and cultural heritage cannot be imagined. And it's not just Ljubljana, it's Slovenia. The cities of Ljubljana without Tromosts, Tržnica and so on would not be. An intervention in such a monument is an intervention against culture. It's not about garages, it's about value added, it's about barbarization of space on behalf of capital. Because garages are used. So I ask you: On what issue will you put yourself in this conflict of interest, Madam Minister? On the side of cultural heritage or on the side of garages and capital? This is very important. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u94	Madam Minister of Culture. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Good-bye. I am grateful, Mr Zorn, that you have asked this question because I have the opportunity and the opportunity to clarify things that are not going in the direction on which the ministry stands, but quite another way. It's clear he's on the right side. This is said to be not a decision between whether there will be a garage there, whether there will be a sewer there at all, or there will be a plumbing or anything. In this case, the Ministry does not decide whether or not there will be garages there, but deals with whatever happens there, must take into account the integrity of the existing regulations, including the protection of Plečnik's arcades, and above all archaeology - very valuable and rich archaeology, which means that it must not interfere in this space. Your question began with the question of what this decree means or what the Ministry will do with a temporary decree signed just before the elections by the former Minister. The problem is that this temporary decree is not necessary because this space is already protected. It is already protected by a decree on the proclamation of the medieval city core, the old Ljubljana and the castle hill for cultural and historical monuments and natural sights. And I also talked about this with the initiators of the civil initiative "We don't give the shop" and I made it clear to them, "We don't give the prisoner." But nobody wants to take him here because he's protected. And I fully agree with you when you say that this is one of the most important heritage, say, more modern times in Slovenia. This provisional decree, if we call it Minister Simoniti's decree, is very broad and very strict in that sense, that if we were to block the sewerage if I were to banalise, we should not, and we could not even, intervene in this space. This radicality of the Minister's decree was probably based on his own decision, because the Ministry did not know that he was preparing or the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage did not cooperate here either. Interestingly, Dr. Damjan Prelovšek, Director of the Directorate for Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture, disagreed with this decree or direction, and we know that in the area of Plečnik he is in a positive sense more papal than the pope. He is an expert and has even participated in an architectural competition that dealt with the entire area and directions for further development of this space. In short, I can only and only repeat that the Ministry of Culture knows that we do not give Plečnik that part of the arcade, the whole area, is protected and that whatever happens next will happen in terms of further protection of this space or architecture and heritage. It is true, however, that even higher levels of protection for Plečnik are being prepared in Slovenia, especially in Ljubljana, for this purpose, this mission or this mission had already been carried out by Dr. Prelovšek himself, when he came to the ministry, as I say, a well-known pelčnikologist, one of the better in Slovenia. However, the processes of this legislative protection of Plečnik's heritage are obviously more difficult than he thought at the first moment, so he will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. In a sense, you answered well. To protect a prisoner is, of course, an excellent password. But it is true that Plečnik is not only an arcade in the area of the market, but also a market space itself. And this, as I understand from this answer, is not the subject of protection as you understand it. So once again I ask: Will you protect the market from radical interventions, which could be a huge garage that the county directly talked about in public? Because it will happen that this construction, based on our experience with such constructions, will last for many years and that the market will never be the same as it was. A kind of flight simply because it's a site below and happy archaeologists will spend at least four years chewing on debris and then there will be something else, while the city's budget may be changed, the crisis will be bigger, it will be extended as it is the NUK, where it's been yawning for many years, such as the Shumi, such as the Refugee Court, as there are many more. And so all generations will be tricked into having a market and some will never experience it again. So I ask you: Will you fully protect this Plečnik monument or only its parts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u99	As I said before, there was an architectural competition, where Plečnik's heritage protectors also participated and also established possible interventions. Whether there will be a market or not is not in the domain of the Ministry of Culture, it is in the country's domain to tell where and where the interventions can take place. And as I say, and as has been said, the interventions will not happen, and they must not happen where protection is already clear today. But of course there are possibilities, and the competition has given them that in the domain of the Pogačar market, I think even in the domain of other border areas, they can change, interventions are possible. In any case, what you were talking about is whether or not the garage would be a question of the Ministry of Culture. This is what the city has its plans to do, and it is up to the state to limit it where it interferes with the agreement as to what it can do. And what's not to be and we're saying that he can't interfere in Plečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Will you suggest a debate, Mr. Zorn? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u101	I propose a debate. If the Ministry withdraws this decree, it is directly involved in the creation of a garage there. That's clear. Although you are talking about some broader and more initial protection, the county is just waiting for this decision to stand down. Since this is an extremely important issue, I have said that it is linked to our cultural identity, I propose a debate within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal Thursday as part of the vote. Mr Bogdan Barovic is on the question. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is absent. Are you going to ask anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. With great pleasure. The question is legally referred to the Foreign Minister as a result of the procedure in this Parliament and is intended in essence for the Government, for all ministers and ministers, and in particular for information from Slovenia and Slovenia. When Slovenia was in pre-accession and accession negotiations with the European Union, Europe officially warned it in the event of a review agreement, "you, if you do not give in and act in a fluke, will not go to Europe." And she didn't go to Europe. When the Italians asked for a solution to the issue of optants, Slovenia sat in the waiting room and waited. She did not go to Europe, even though she met all the conditions. Then came the problem of Slovenia's entry into the European Union with its Austrian neighbours. She didn't go. She waited and waited. None of these questions were bilateral. Yeah, it was bilateral. Europe versus Slovenia. Optants, Italians, uncles. Suddenly, Slovenia does the same. Slovenia feels threatened, knows that it is wrong to act in a manner that is contrary to Croatia's entry into the European Union. Suddenly, this is no longer a question of Europe against Croatia, although Slovenia is a member of the European Union's full and quality, but suddenly this bilateral, in Slovenian terms, is a bilateral issue. I never expected such a disgrace in Slovenia, nor did the Slovenian National Parties. Ladies and gentlemen, further examples: Cyprus, Greece, Turkey's blockade since 1963. The European question, not bilaterally. Next content. Europe held Greece for five years, there was no bilateral issue because of Turkey, no. Europe has held Greece, 'you must not go to Europe'. Greece is blocking Macedonia because of its name. The question is very clear. Broek, the European Commissioner has accused Slovenia of blackmail. Has the government accused Broek of not affording such a thing? Hannes Swoboda expressed his dismay at the opinion of the Slovenes and Slovenes. Has Slovenia done anything against it, or has it accused Swoboda of how ugly she speaks about Slovenia? In the opinion of the State, I ask, is this a bilateral or a multilateral question? I would like to know what the State of the Republic of Slovenia will do when it votes in the European elections. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u104	Mr. Barovich, I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franc Jurša to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask the Minister of Transport a question. In 2006 and 2007, in the municipality area along the Prague-Hodoš railway route, the railway inspector carried out an examination of the road and railway crossings, which is nothing wrong. He concluded that they did not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for Local and Regional or State Roads. The Inspector fined the municipalities 400 euros for the transition, representing thousands of euros for some municipalities. That's not all. If I stayed here, there would be no problems or I wouldn't be discussing it here today. The question to the Minister is: Why is the Inspector involved in the preparation of the national location plan for the electrification of the railway line Hodoš-Pragersko, which covers the comprehensive redesign of all disputed railway crossings and provides for their adoption this year, the real adoption of the national location plan, insists on the immediate implementation of the decisions and thus redesigning the transitions? The restructuring of the transitions is a huge financial burden for municipalities, about 70,000 euros per transition, even for those with multiple crossings on their roads. For some congregations, including the congregation from which I come, it is almost a million euros. In doing so, it should be pointed out that all these crossings also place prisoners operating, so security is not in any way compromised. At that time, a new regulation on level crossings, which sets a new 10-year deadline for regulating transitions, was also adopted. During this time, work will certainly be carried out within the framework of the location plans or the location plan. Investment of municipal funds in the arrangements [[?]] the transitions to be regulated by the location plan are not economically justified or contrary to the principles of a good master.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u106	Mr. Minister Wlačič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you for asking. Your suggestions are, in fact, life. As a department minister, I understand the problems of local communities with regard to the decisions of the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to regulate level crossings. Undoubtedly, they represent a great financial burden for the municipalities and, of course, for the timely provision of municipal budget resources, they also represent the financial commitment of the other operators. The Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is in the department of the Ministry of Transport, but is an independent body. I can't and I don't want to influence his decisions. However, I must correct you in implementation only in the part where you refer to the Regulation on Level crossings, which indeed sets a 10-year deadline for regulating transitions, but the decisions were issued mostly in January 2007 and the Regulation was adopted in August 2008. This is following the issuance of these decisions. Regardless of the above, the procedures may be longer. In the proceedings, the municipalities were invited to comment, and in most cases they also responded to the possibility of extension, so they could have submitted an application for an extension of that time. In the case of applications, the applications were extended to 30 years. 9. 2008 If the debtors have not applied for an extension, a decision on the authorisation of enforcement has been issued and decisions on the authorisation of enforcement have therefore been issued within the month of January 2009. Ten. 2010 In other words, if a decision is not implemented by the end of October of this year, a penalty is also provided for. Finally, I would like to stress once again that I understand what you are saying, but I cannot influence the decisions of the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thanks for the answer. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Please, come in, Mr. Barovich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you. Regardless, Mr Vice-President, that I may have exceeded 25 or 27 seconds of allowed time, I am, like all other Members, even because I am in the third term, at least worth enough to let me know what kind of response I want. I respect you and I'd expect you to ask me this, like you did my colleague right in front of me. Mr Plevelj said that this did not belong to me because I had exceeded my time and that I should say it in my own time. This is not fair and it is not fair to all Members. I don't care because I can see everyone's fucking. I don't need an answer. However, I think it is right to give both a written and an oral response and after the second paragraph of Article 247 for Slovenians and Slovenians! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, your comment was not substantiated. You had time under the rules of procedure and during that time you had the opportunity to tell whether you wanted an oral answer at the next meeting or not. Mr Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! In your public performances so far, you have repeatedly challenged the system of vignettes introduced on Slovenian highways, with the financial aspect being highlighted above all, the real problem of financial inflows. It is clear to everyone here that Slovenia has become more accessible, more mobile, more flowable, at an appropriate price without hindrance by introducing vineyards. Venetos are also more environmentally acceptable because there is no unnecessary waiting in front of toll stations. The motorways are therefore no longer a luxury, not a superstandard, but a normal part of the transport system intended for wide use. All these positive effects can also be financially valued, and I am sure that an economic analysis that takes these broad aspects into account would certainly show, in my opinion, that this has made the country's transport system more financially sustainable. In this regard, I ask you: How many tolls were collected for passenger cars in 2007, when we had no vignettes and how many in 2008, when we arrived at the new toll system? Have more tolls been collected or fewer? What were the forecasts for repayment of credits if they did not have vignettes, so if they kept the existing tolling system? How do you assess future financial sustainability and repayment of credits in the light of the cutting costs that Darsa managed, for example, by reducing the last call by up to EUR 24 million? As Minister of Transport, will you also take into account the benefits of citizens and citizens, who have obtained all of the positive effects that I have been talking about through vignettes? Will you give in to the financial sustainability of the lobby and look at the narrow economic interests that will require more resources for Dars, and thus give in again and open the way to those tenderers who just want the annual programme to be adopted as high as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you for asking. The latest change in the toll system since 1.7.2008 significantly changed tolling in Slovenia. Travel revenues from the so-called classic toll system, the remote system we had previously, have increased mainly in recent years due to dependence on opening new kilometres, i.e. in connection with the opening of new motorway legs and also depending on the growth of passenger and freight traffic. During that period, tolling revenues on average increased by 12% per year. In absolute terms, it increased from 111 million in 2003 to 175 million in 2007. In particular, due to the toll system, which allowed free driving or avoidance of toll payments on certain parts of the network, Dars managed to to toll only about 70%. From 1.7.2008 Dars started to tolling passenger cars with the help of vignettes. The sales were semi-annual wines with a validity of 6 months. During the first six months, 2 million 362 thousand 996 pieces of vinjet were sold, with sales of about 50% of all sales in July, 30% in August and the rest falling to months by the end of the year. Together with trucks, we collected €207 million in 2008. The following should be highlighted. A cash inflow of EUR 68 million was recorded from the vinje title in 2008. Dars raised 66 million euros in the same period in 2007. [[I'm talking about R-1 and R-2.]] . Your question is brittle and twisted. If I give you a direct answer with the numbers, then in 2007 there were 98.9 million from passenger traffic and 117 million in 2008. At first glance, you seem to be right. But it's incomparable numbers. It's not just apples and pears, it's apples and watermelons if you ask me. It was a six-year-old system and six-year-old vignettes. So it is very difficult to compare the old system and the vignette system, which was only valid for six months, and were only six-year-old vineyards. Let me just mention that the projections that were prepared for sale were vinjets to be sold over 3 million vinjets. They were sold a lot, a lot less. The introduction of the vinite system has produced some of the positive effects that you are stating. It is undeniable, however, that with the current toll system it is not possible to generate sufficient financial resources to service Darsa’s debts. It was that alarm that specifically warned me that something important must be changed. The next problem brought about by the blames is that the European Commission is 2. Ten. 2008 addressed an official reminder to Slovenia and we are hearing a violation of Article 12 of the Treaty of European Communities, which prohibits discrimination against citizens. In view of the initiation of the procedure before the European Commission, the following negative effect of the wine system continued. In fact, the European Commission has retained funds for the section of Slivnica - Drazenci. Without a decision to co-finance the Slovnica-Drazenci motorway section, an additional 88 million from the Cohesion Fund are at risk without this section. A number of problems were presented in this area. We have therefore proposed to the Government the establishment of a specific group which should make proposals for measures to ensure the sustainability of the national highway construction programme, proposals for resources for the implementation of the basic, additional and developmental axis, and an analysis of the existing tolling system of all vehicles. This is an expert working group whose results I expect on 31 January.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your answer. It was not intended to ask a curved and woven question, but simply whether more tolls were collected or less. In fact, this is where the money comes from the vignettes and the trucks. It was just a wish. Of course, I'm partially satisfied with the answer. I'm pleased with the part where you said what we also knew, and that's why we've taken on changes in the tolling system. I like that, because the toll system that was before was unfair and unfair. And I hope to say that even more than the one we have now. And you didn't answer one part of my question. I am particularly interested in this financial sustainability from the point of view of the state, not just from the point of view of Dars. I am convinced that we are allowing Dars' financial sustainability not only by abolishing the vignette system, but also by addressing costs. And here was the other part of the question of how you're going to deal with it and whether you're assessing the positive fact that Darsa's management went to where you need to go when you're doing the invitations. I argue that when the call for €24 million is reduced, financial sustainability is strongly linked to this. And here I missed the extra part of the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thanks for the extra question. Now I understand what you really wanted with this last question: How does Darsa’s financial sustainability affect the pressures of different lobbying? Look, the one who wants something else from what you said is that for as little money is built as possible as many quality roads and motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, I don't think it belongs to this hall or to the Ministry or to Dars. This is how we fully agree in this respect and I will fight for the money of our taxpayers to be used as meaningfully as possible and I will support all the activities that go in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Bogovic to the Minister for Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u119	Good evening, distinguished vice president, distinguished ministers, ministers! Dear Minister of Finance, you have been asked questions today, so I will try to be as brief as possible. In view of the fact that on 11 November we adopted a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance, which allows for the additional borrowing of the State for the financing of loans. and credit institutions, insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings are allowed to purchase claims from credit institutions, including capital investments, and guarantees for liabilities owed by credit institutions are also made available and on this basis two regulations on the criteria and conditions for the issue of the guarantee or for the granting of loans have been issued. For this reason, how many credit institutions have already submitted an application for the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia at your Ministry? How many decisions have the government already taken on the issue of the guarantee? How many credit institutions have already submitted an application for loans to your Ministry and how many of these requests have been positively resolved or how do these measures work in practice?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much for the relevant question. On the basis of the legislation adopted, the Ministry of Finance adopted a sub-legislative act, aligned it with the Bank of Slovenia, with the European Central Bank and with the Directorate for Competitiveness of the European Commission. On this basis, it prepared a timetable for issuing guarantees and published them on the website. That became active right before Christmas. During the period from Christmas to today, two major Slovenian banks were interested in the guarantees, but they did not submit their applications after the assessment of the financial experts because they were waiting for the issue of the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia. This one's in progress. The price of bonds will then be an indicator of the price at which financial institutions can compete with the State guarantee in the European Interbank Credit Market. If this project does not come to an end, we have already prepared another project, including by means of sub-legislative regulation, in line with the domestic central bank, the European Central Bank and the Competition Directorate of the European Commission, where the country will directly lend banks that will continue to credit the real economy with a factor greater than one. However, this also requires additional fresh resources. The project currently under way is such that these assets are three to five years old, it is said, that these will be quality medium-term funds that will allow better credit to the economy. We will, of course, monitor their plasma and, in accordance with the legal obligations, also inform the National Assembly as soon as this project is completed. So it's all in critical phase, waiting for this betrayal. It's going to depend pretty much on this issue. If this is not the case, we have already made alternative moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor. He will ask the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Sport is a more rare topic in this House, but in my opinion it is not irrelevant. After all, issues have been raised for several years to regulate the status of top athletes and their trainers. In particular, this problem always occurs after every Olympic game, where we are usually successful in many industries, which are usually not commercially interesting enough for sponsors. Even after the last Olympics. There have been many, even unverified, things, but I think it is time for things to be settled slowly. Although the amount of public funding for top sports in Slovenia has been growing recently, it has been financed through the state budget, the fund for financing sports organisations and, last but not least, local communities. In recent years, the school system has also been partially adapted in terms of the performance of the duties of athletes, health care and various insurance for athletes has been regulated. There are also many sports scholarships for young perspective athletes, and at national level there is also a system for the employment of the best athletes and their trainers in the state administration, particularly at the Ministry of Defence. In 2007, the Slovenian Olympic Committee also introduced funding for top athletes through a special fund involving athletes who win medals at Olympics and World Championships in sports on the Olympic Games programme. By the way, the Ministry of Education and Sport is not involved in financing this fund. At least it's not in the previous term. In spite of this fact, I ask the Minister for Sport: How do you plan to regulate the status of top athletes and their trainers during and after a completed sports career? Until when should appropriate solutions be proposed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u124	Mr. Minister, Dr. Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u125	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament. Thank you for asking. It is also right, in my opinion, to speak as many times as possible about sport, which is probably too few public words and attention compared to other spheres. One of the priorities we have set ourselves since the beginning of the mandate is also the regulation of the status of top athletes. According to the assessment of the majority of actors, this status is basically well regulated. I also found out after reviewing the measures that are already in play. However, there is an opportunity for this status to be further improved and complemented by some measures. In doing so, we took into account two points of view that are somehow in play. First, more needs to be done for top athletes in the future. Secondly, measures to be taken must be sufficient, but not over-privileged by top athletes in terms of fairness. The conditions and status of top athletes during their active sports course are good, even in the opinion of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the committee of athletes. To top athletes, the country provides social and health security, superstandard health insurance, scholarships, school commitment adjustment, special organisational forms of education such as sports departments in high school, public administration employment, regulated professional athlete status and thus the possibility that the entire sport career is also a working age. During the support provided so far, it is particularly important to highlight, for the first time, employment in the state administration, as the Member of Parliament has been talking about. This measure provides for up to 200 athletes and coaches to gain this status by 2015 - currently in this status 126 athletes. So the possibility of employment in the state administration for an indefinite period of time after the end of a sports career. Another time. Extraordinary pension for special benefits in the field of sports. Unfortunately, there are only 11 athletes in this status, while others deserve more than 400 in the field of culture, art and science. Our position and fundamental idea is to encourage athletes, trainers, clubs and relationships in decision and responsibility, to educate athletes during careers for their profession and to help athletes after their completed careers to continue their careers in their sport, in their profession or to refocus. That is how we want athletes to remain active after the end of their career. In line with our beliefs and the debates we have so far, we are thinking mainly in the following directions. First, to ensure that top athletes are given the opportunity to acquire such skills as to enable them to become trainers. This qualification is a special category that is already institutionalised and only needs to be used. Secondly, to grant a top athlete a temporary scholarship of up to a maximum of five years to enable him to complete his post-graduate or university education, it is said to those who failed during their careers. It should be complemented by the provision of free health checks and the adaptation of study obligations at universities, including the possibility of a distance study. And the fourth time. Following the example of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, as defined in Article 65 of this Law, they could introduce the right to reimbursement of salaries and salaries due to the Ministry for the first three years of employment, or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for five years where a top athlete has been employed for ten years. [[...]] We are not thinking about the introduction of a once-in-a-lifetime pension because we believe that these measures are sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Miro Petek to the Minister for Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I must say that I am pleased that my question has been included in today's meeting of the National Assembly, because it has been very difficult to come through this narrow sieve of leadership of the National Assembly, even though it is a matter of concern to Oprah and the Ballet. This is of national importance to institutions. The question is this: The Decision amending the Decision establishing the Slovenian National Theatre of Opera and the ballet of Ljubljana, which entered into force on 13 January this year, introduced changes in the field of the conditions for the appointment of the director of this public institution. Prior to the entry into force of those amendments in the field of the required conditions to be met by the applicant, one of the conditions for the director to have an appropriate university education in the artistic or humanistic direction was that he had an appropriate university education. By applying the amendments in this section, the candidate for director shall meet the following condition: that he has a university education or a high professional education. This amendment, which is a reduction in the conditions of education for the director of such an important institution as Opera and Ballet, is, in view of the emphasis on expertise in the recruitment, to say the least, incomprehensible. This change has also affected the change in the composition of the Council of the said public institution. The current number of members of the Council increases to seven, from five members to seven. Thus five representatives are appointed by the founder, this is the Government, of which one is named after the new Municipality of Ljubljana and two representatives are appointed by the workers. On the basis of all the said village, Madam Minister, I ask: Why did the Ministry of Culture, for the director of such an important institution as Opera and Ballet Ljubljana, propose a reduction in the conditions of education? What were the criteria for preparing this proposal and these changes? Have you also worked with the representatives of the GLOSE union to prepare this amendment? Finally, since there is also a representative of the Municipality of Ljubljana, I ask you: In what part does the City of Ljubljana co-finance the Opera and Ballet? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u128	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Regardless of the history of this question, I am pleased that you have put it to me simply because of this, as in the previous case, it may also be a misunderstanding or an indeterminable reading and understanding of some standards, which are certainly in the interest of the public institution, that I do not speak Slovenian identity and the preservation of culture. What's going on in Opera? More than we already know, for example, at the Ministry of Culture there are so-called door knocks on various sectors, various representatives or different interest groups from the Slovenian National Theatre Opera and ballet in Ljubljana with their problems, at the same time more, we say so ourselves, we also read in the media of public information. It's an institution that's not in an envious position. On the one hand, because it is facing it or because it is filling it up in the sense that it is being built up, upgraded and that this investment is very difficult, and in particular has also been subjected to numerous audits and even in the last moments when I came to the Ministry, subject to an appeal to stop the construction because it is not properly managed or will not ensure the optimal effects that this, I think, are already 36 million euros worth of investment. On the other hand, there are a lot of problems with itself, not to say with the crisis, but with dissatisfaction within the ensemble, which, in fact, is now in a very inappropriate, overpaid, poorly planned and so on, when visiting at other different ends of Ljubljana. They are affected by irregular or inadequate application sessions and so on. There are a lot of problems that Opera is in right now. Really, it's not the first time. This amended instrument of establishment brings two fundamental changes, which go back to the composition or size of the world, to the width of the new world of the Opera and also to the conditions of education in the case of the director’s or principal’s occupation. The conditions that you see as narrower are essentially broader. Wider why? The previous talk was about education for the principal or principal, who goes from an artistic and humanistic direction. The current diction speaks of the possibility that beyond this - it is said that the artistic professions, we know that at university level, those coming from the music or other Academy of Art or related institutions are not only ours - and we are giving an opportunity now that we are talking about different conditions also to other staff, say, economists, lawyers, those who should hold their hands strongly, responsibly, autonomously and also very properly over the public institution of SNG Ljubljana. The second change you are talking about is why we changed the number of members and why there is also a representative of MOL in the public institute, according to the Municipality of Ljubljana. The sample was literally copied from Maribor. But it is taken because SNG Maribor, Opera and Ballet is successful and Ljubljana can have a complex in front of it. There the municipality currently has its representative appointed and the composition is the same, formula two plus five. We have also talked about this today with trade unions that want more breadth and even more people in the holy public institutions, which I will not say, but just squeezing and saving, is increasingly banning, as the saints tend to be less representatives than more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you, Madam Secretary for that answer. Of course, I am not entirely satisfied with it, because I personally do not think that lowering the educational level is in the national interest. I would understand that if you mentioned in this reply that you were trying to open up the possibility that one of the ballet players would run for director, but you didn't mention it. You mentioned economists, lawyers, and I have a feeling that you're making room for directors or administrators for some kind of frame, some kind of "king" or "queen," I don't know. I don't think that's good. Even ballet students, if they cannot get an education in Slovenia, can get an appropriate education abroad. In the National Assembly, we have experts who graduated from pregraduate studies or postgraduate studies at Harvard. And ballet girls have an open road and can study anywhere else. I can't help feeling like you've got a candidate to put on this job. You didn't answer me if you were talking before you took this decision at the government, with the Opera representatives, with the union representatives. I'm asking for that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u132	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I haven't answered everything before. I'm going to take some extra time. The critical mass of capable personnel in Slovenia is low every day. If I were to give you an honest answer, we could be happy if we now had a bunch of people in stock who would run for the leading positions of both responsible public institutions or such complex, sensitive and demanding public institutions as Opera and ballet in Ljubljana or any other theatre and so on. There are no receipts here. When the time is right, the call will give people the opportunity to apply. In this invitation to tender, it is important to say and mention another amendment that I have not mentioned before. The previous acts on the establishment did not require any management experience, director, principal. There was no need for leadership. However, the current instrument of incorporation requires five years of experience in the field of governance. And I'll tell you honestly, that's really necessary. The institution, not only the one you build or adapt, like the Opera and Ballet, but also the one that has to provide a very demanding program, must have a responsible leader. Today is very much focused, for example, on one goal, what will be the performance when we cut the string when this Opera is finished. But this is not the case. In the meantime, the entire programme of the session and the production of such a programme will be able to carry out its work in and agree on alternative locations and so on. This is why we have given this condition, because, to me, it seems to me, one is normal, because in other institutions where there are 10 and not 300 employees, they have it. As far as the possibility of a ballet candidate is concerned, it is also this change of act that makes it possible. And before that, it was discriminatory because we know that the artistic professions didn't give this education within the artistic rank. After a change or difficulty, we also talked to the Gloss, in fact, about other issues. One was this morning, one was early in the morning, one was a good week ago. But they did get an answer specifically about this change in this sense of grave, as I have now tried to present it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Justice Minister will be asked a question by Mr Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! On 12 January 2009, you met with the President of the Commission to prevent corruption by Drago Kos. The president of the Drago Kos Commission has presented you with systemic problems that fall within the labour remit of your ministry. You agreed with the interlocutor, as the President of the Commission said to the media, that, I quote, "It may be much more effective to prevent than to sanction or eliminate later." The end of the quote. On the other hand, after the meeting, you also stated to the media: "This is a problem that has been dragging on for some time now and our ministry will try to provide professional and political support for this issue to be definitively resolved and this status is also formally recognised to the Commission, even though it has been in practice all this time." End of quote. The media also wrote that you want the so-called anti-corruption commission to regulate the status it should already belong to, in accordance with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. This is a very important convention ratified by the National Assembly a good year ago. In view of the fact that the 2009 regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not indicate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or your Ministry intends to make changes to the legislation in that direction, there is doubt as to the credibility of your public promise. Finally, the Government's normative programme for 2009 does not include the preparation of a new law, which would take into account Constitutional Court decision 57 of 29. 3. In the case of the constitutional judgment of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function, 2007 cited this. In this regard, I ask you, Madam Minister, are there any formal conclusions on your meeting with the President of the Commission to prevent corruption? Which one? What solutions will you propose for an integrated regulation of the fight against corruption? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As at the Ministry of Justice, you know that no justice is naturally immune to corruption and that the best fight against corruption is to eliminate opportunities for it. This was one of the reasons why at the Ministry of Justice we decided to take the initiative of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption for the working meeting. Therefore, the meeting of working nature was such that it did not adopt any formal conclusions or conclusions. In fact, it was only about the commitment of both sides that the two state authorities, each within the limits of their powers, should try to improve the situation in the field of anti-corruption to the best of their ability. Regardless of the fact that there were no formal conclusions here, allow me to explain the main points of this conversation. First of all, we agreed that active cooperation between the two national authorities was needed. In particular, the area of justice should be considered to be a system that should be truly free of charge in terms of corruption. Here any information that this Commission has with which it can refer to the field of justice can benefit the judiciary in the preparation of appropriate systemic solutions. In the course of this discussion, the issue of citizens' complaints, in particular affected parties, was highlighted in court proceedings at the expense of the operation and conduct of certain bankruptcy managers, judicial experts, valuers, notaries, and also lawyers. Of course, from the point of view of alleged corruption. In this regard, the Justice Ministry explained that we are planning a series of systemic changes already this year in the areas relating to the work of the said persons. This is particularly the case with the Law on Lawyers, where a certain revision of the chapter on the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, the Law on Courts, which regulates the status and method of appointment of valuers, experts, and also the Law on Notariat, is required. In the light of these changes, the Ministry should try to ensure, in particular, a higher degree of transparency in the functioning of all these persons, while at the same time providing more objective criteria for granting them status. An important topic raised in this discussion was the issue of complaints at the expense of the personnel decisions of the Council of Justice. In this regard, we have explained at the Ministry that we are planning to amend the Law on Courts in a way that would try to explore the possibility that the meetings of the Council of Justice could become public in at least one part. You know that the entire session of the Council of Justice is closed to the public. At the same time, we intend to set more objective criteria and conditions for the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts. In the course of this discussion, it was then agreed that the Ministry would designate a contact person to work with the anti-corruption commission to implement the action plan on the implementation of the resolution on anti-corruption. Finally, the discussion was also about whether the regulation of corruption crimes was in the criminal code. This issue was raised, in particular, in connection with the fact that, on the date of this meeting, I appointed the Council for Criminal Law, which, inter alia, should examine possible needs to improve the applicable criminal code. As regards the issue of an integrated anti-corruption regime, I must stress that this is a matter within the Ministry of Public Administration and not the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction. This does not, of course, oblige the Ministry of Justice to engage in solving this problem in this area. I was just talking about these measures that the Ministry is planning. What relates to quoting my statements is only in relation to the fact that the Ministry of Justice has certain powers in relation to the notification to the United Nations body, specifically to the Secretary-General. However, this notification cannot be carried out without an appropriate amendment to the Law on Ratification, for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice has also submitted such a proposal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is because we have ratified its convention. However, we have not yet informed the Secretary-General of the authority which will exercise certain powers in relation to this Convention. It is therefore a matter of non-compliance with the legal obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. As regards respect for the constitutional decision. This is supposed to be taken into account. It must be taken into account in the preparation of future legislation in this area, which is not within the competence of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u139	I, I could say, almost fully agree and am satisfied with the explanations and with the answer. However, the very content of your answer today is also the fact that you have also talked somehow about powers that do not come exactly and entirely from the competence of your ministry. You have also now confirmed this when you taxed that some things are within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration, and I thank you for this explanation and answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinic. The question to the Minister for Environment and Space will be put by Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Dear Minister, Minister! My parliamentary question concerns the issue of environmental control. In Slovenia we have already adopted the Nature Conservation Act in 1999 which states in Article 155 that they are competent in nature on one side of the inspection service and, on the other hand, we have committed ourselves to the introduction of nature-protection monitors. The following, 156th Article of the same Law also discusses what procedures will be like and what acts of law will be done to ensure, of course, that this nature-protection control will be established. Ten years have passed, unfortunately this has not happened yet, but the problems in the natural environment are certainly more from year to year. What's this all about? Slovenia is one of the most liberal and open in the world in the field of this legislation. This seems right and right to our citizens and citizens, because we have as many as twelve thousand kilometres of forest roads that are literally transportable to everyone. After independence, private property has a different character, has a legally important, secure environmental and social role. The owner of the forest must allow in his forest many things, from hunting, beekeeping, gleaning and certain other crops of nature. Of course, it is in the interests of the State and the owner that no harm is done in the forest. There's more in practice than that and there's too much. The main problem we see, cross-engines, quadricycles, field cars, private helicopters, mountain bikes, as well as motor sleigh in winter. We see a big problem in waste disposals in the natural environment when mushrooms are fueled by a storage chill for both our country's citizens and foreigners. The consequences in the natural environment are no doubt, we have exceeded the limit of common sense and good taste. Finally, something should also be said about sent-off dogs that cause damage to both wild and domestic animals and, of course, the illegal exploitation of natural resources such as sand diggers, the removal of sales and what else could be found. Given that we have almost eight hundred foresters in the public forestry service in Slovenia, twenty of them have already been trained as environmental supervisors in these months, and because of our lack of inspectors, of course, we are giving a question and an initiative to the minister. The question is: When will nature’s surveillance be established? In doing so, it is a well-intentioned initiative for the benefit of this country to be, above all, an environment and people's satisfaction if done as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Saiovic. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Transport Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister and Minister! Transport infrastructure, roads and, in part, railways are of paramount importance for the good functioning of the tourist economy. The area of Pohorje is a well-developed tourist area in Slovenia, especially in this eastern and southern area, where two large centres such as Maribor Pohorje and Rogla, which belongs to the so-called Zreško Pohorje, are the southern part. There are big sports events every year in this area. I wouldn't count them. In 2013, the 27th Winter University competition will take place at Pohorje. The host of this great sporting event, which is also a promotion for Slovenia, is of course Maribor. But the competitions will not only be in the vicinity of Maribor, in this Maribor-Russian part, but also in Rogli. Road infrastructure in this area is also of great importance. We are aware that at Pohorje alone there can be no parallel regional road Maribor-Cele, but a road connection that will serve as a tourist infrastructure is said to be somewhat different. The program is being prepared, namely to connect Areh through the Three Kings, Pesek, Rogla with the branch for Lovrenc and the Sloveniangrass part against Kopam. And that's why I'm asking you: How far is this project? We know the project is being prepared. Maybe he was a little overextended in the first stage. How far is this matter to connect this area with road infrastructure so that it can take place in its entirety? The tourist area, I don't know, Rogla itself, only Maribor Pohorje in Germany means nothing, even the entire Pohorje together can hardly represent one serious tourist destination. That's why I'm asking you: How far is the tourism infrastructure project, the road connection of this area that I have mentioned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you for asking. Regarding preparations for the implementation of the winter university in Maribor, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads in 2008 reviewed the state roads in the Pohorje region, namely the municipalities of Slovenske Konjice, Zreče, Oplotnica, Slovenska Bistrica, Maribor, Lovrenc on Pohorje, Ruše and identified the necessary measures, namely the modernisation of state roads in the area of Pohorje and evaluated investments. I have a very detailed article for each section. If you're interested, then I can tell you. For the time being, I would like to say in general that it has found that 59.4 kilometres of state roads need to be regulated there and that 48.4 kilometres of roads need to be modernised, given the mountain configuration and climate conditions, the average value of modernisation per kilometre should be estimated at approximately EUR million. The total value of the construction works is EUR 48.4 million for this part of the construction work before these measures; this is the extension of the road structure to the prescribed width, i.e. 5 meters or two and a half with extensions in curves; the restoration of refractory and supporting structures, the rehabilitation of implants, the drainage regime by the construction of drainage, the implementation of the ice-resistant road structure and the rehabilitation of shores. It will be necessary to restore 11 kilometres of existing asphalt roads. As a restoration, we understand the reconstruction of asphalt coatings, the deep repair of injuries, the fixing of the vehicle with a load-bearing balancing layer and the implementation of the closure layer, and the arrangements for drainage and rehabilitation of shores. The value of these parts is estimated at €500,000 per kilometre, a total of about €6 million. If we round it up, it's about 60 million euros. Together with investment documentation, engineering and consultancy services and other costs of around €70 million. We must note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia so far has not included these roads, except for the modernisation of the state road Cezlak-Pesek and Pohorje-Three kings. At the Ministry of Transport, we will strive to speed up the modernisation of state roads in the Pohorje area, which will be reflected to some extent already in our proposal for a rebalancing of the budget, and I hope that we will succeed in this, and even more so in the proposals for the following budgets, as we are well aware that good transport infrastructure is needed for the functioning of the tourism economy, in the case of Pohorje, a better interconnection between two major centres in the eastern and southern parts of Pohorje. Finally, I would say that the objective is certainly not to asphalt everything, even naturalists must tell them how they see the future development of this area. We have a case in Rakov Škocjan, where because naturalists oppose road renewal, it has been a blockade for seven years. But I'm sure the priority is to connect Areh-Rogl-Zrece.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, supplementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm happy with that answer, but if you'll excuse me, just a few more information. It is true that Cezlak-Pesek is in the budget and this is the hardest section, which represents about half of all the money because special support will be needed and so on. There are some resources left, some for the Rogla-Pesek section for this year as well, and I think for the following. I would also like to inform you that, in the past, the local community of Zreče and Unior tourism Zreče have also come to the rescue. With their own resources, they built roads to make infrastructure more up-to-date. Maybe just a little extra thinking. This too is true that we do not think about asphalting all roads because it would make no sense, perhaps just expansion and good macadam. However, the next thing that has prevailed in this area is that it is likely that only the existing funding envisaged for the rehabilitation of road infrastructure will not work. I'm probably going to need some, I'm going to figure out what's the "university euro" where the extra funds could be raised. We don't think it would take a lot of millions. Little good will is very welcome for this area, and not too little resources, not too much resources. We agree with this; even local communities would not want this to become some parallel regional road. Do you think that this is also my additional question that for funding, assistance in the implementation of the university for this road infrastructure, would also introduce any, I don't know, additional fund or anything like that? Big events have always solved this problem. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u149	It's one of the possibilities. I say we haven't thought about it. I hope so, and I want the budget to be sufficient. Since we have, I will say, so many state roads in the Republic of Slovenia that need to be rebuilt, little is at the annual level about 270 million euros. My wish is to provide budgetary resources. However, if this is necessary, we will continue to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Ambassador László Göncz will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dearly-respected Minister! I am asking a question which, according to nature, might not be judged in the context of the 21st century, given the development of the Republic of Slovenia. But still: I would like to know what the Ministry or the institution which is responsible will do by speeding up the construction of the telecommunications infrastructure, or by upgrading or expanding the network, which would also allow internet connectivity to those interested in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have the possibility to do so to date? At a time when the internet for most people in Slovenia is something completely self-evident, there are places where, due to the overload of the network or even the absence of it alone, the living are not able to connect to the Internet. Such examples are, unfortunately, also encountered in the national mixed area of Prekmurje, where the Hungarian national community lives. In particular, in those areas where the economic and social situation is very fragile and the general information of the population is relatively weak. I believe that today it is unacceptable that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not have the same opportunities to access electronic media. As a result, they do not have equal opportunities for development and their children do not have the same opportunities for education. For it is clear to us all that the Internet is a key element of knowledge acquisition today and in that area, which is even more in an invisible situation, this issue is even more pressing. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: In a relatively short time, what can you do to address this problem? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The broadband development strategy sets out some very ambitious objectives that need to be achieved. In fact, broadband infrastructure should allow all people in Slovenia broadband access by 2010, at least 90% of the population, at least one type of broadband access with a transmission rate of at least 2 megabits per second by the end of 2010 and 98% by 2012. It is then assumed that 90% of the population would have the option of serving a threesome and transferring at least 20 megabits per second by 2015 and so on. Now I would just like to point out that all research, education and cultural institutions, especially libraries and museums and all health institutions, should be able to have 100% broadband connectivity, their employees should also be able to work from home, and participants in educational processes should have access to educational content on the Internet and, of course, distance learning services. What is the essence of my response is that to facilitate the construction of broadband networks of electronic communications in areas of the Republic of Slovenia where broadband connections are not enabled and where there is no market interest in the construction of such a network, it is said that we are talking about so-called white foxes; the Ministry of Economy has already published a call for funds from the European Regional Development Fund in 2007. It was exactly December 14, 2007. Development priorities: economic and development infrastructure, project of construction, management and maintenance of an open broadband network of electronic communications in the local community. That call, however, is concluded and the Ministry envisages the re-commitment of the call, probably as early as 2009, to the extent possible in the rebalancing of the funds, with so-called white foxes also being published on the Ministry’s website. These include settlements from Dobrovnik, Moravian Toplice, Lendava, Hodoš and Šalovci, as you correctly determine. These municipalities are eligible for funding for cohesion policy and it is very important for the reduction of the digital divide to apply to the Ministry's invitation to tender as soon as it is published. As I was supposed to say back in 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you very much. For the question of the delegation, it is the turn of Ambassador Silva Črnugelj. There is no Foreign Minister - will you ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u155	Yes, thank you for your word. Today, I intended to ask the Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar on the visa regime with the former Yugoslav republics. Given that the Minister has not taken advantage of this business opportunity to ask the question next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grll will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The great municipalities are certainly in charge of providing their citizens and citizens with certain services, especially in the field of culture, sport, and we can say that we cannot generally say that this is the task of the municipalities, because most of these services are of wider importance in the field of sport and, of course, culture. In the years since we became a single country, a number of congregations have always seceded from large congregations every few years, and of course, the burden of all these cultural institutions has passed, or remained, only in large congregations, especially in the city. Today this applies to several municipalities in Slovenia, and I can especially say this for the Municipality of Novo Mesto, where it represents the provision of funds for all these institutions which have, I can say, regional importance, the financial burden of the municipality. This already represents so much burden, ten percent or even more of the budget today. Given that these cultural services are libraries, these are museums, galleries and could still be found, also using citizens and citizens from all over the region, it is safe now to seek a solution to move some of this burden to the country, in particular the Ministry of Culture. This problem is not from today, this problem has already been in the past mandate, and to resolve these problems, a solution has been sought in the previous mandate in the regions or regions where such institutions, which are of regional importance, would be financed from the budget of the regions. Since the previous mandate did not have the political will to establish the regions, the situation today is that the solution must be sought in a different way, particularly in order to transfer part of the burden to the Ministry of Culture or the country. I am interested in this, Madam Minister: Do you already have specific solutions in mind to these problems, or are you familiar with them? For without the help of the State, there will certainly be a problem that these institutions can develop in advance. As a result, municipalities have major financial problems and a common solution will have to be sought. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u158	Madam Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u159	True, the burdens are translated as we recall. Try to determine who is to be responsible for who is to be a mercenary is not necessarily the founder, they have been spinning since we have a new country. The last time they did, they did try the law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces, if we are speaking of, of course, institutions in the field of culture. Personally, I think that sometimes, at local level, it does not even want to be taken over; well, maybe I have a little heretical thought; the burden of certain responsibilities and the care of public institutions or other institutions in the field of culture that are in the public interest, but that they are to be translated, literally, into the country. And in this sense, we have a lot of anarchy or non-systemic arrangements. In most cases, even if it is not the Founder, the State assumes responsibility for co-financing, except in libraries where we know the congregations do so. In short, the models were already quite something. Some of them were also prevented. That attempt to move and transfer obligations from country to local community that occurred at the turn of the late 1990s failed, we know, because the municipalities did not actually want to assume these responsibilities, even though they received sufficient funds in a number of cases. And they're getting them from that address today because they filed a lawsuit. And recently, I have seen a large sum transferred on the basis of this lawsuit to one congregation. In short, I agree with you, the situation is not arranged as we would like. We would like those communities in which the institutions are also identified to assume a certain responsibility for them, combined with State aid. I think you're coming from New City, and today in some conversation for some very good institution, a new institution, for your theatre Anton Podbevška, it turns out that the congregation gives nothing, the state gives almost nothing, but that Krka gives everything, 100% so to speak. Now I'm cariculating, not exactly, but if the institution wants to live well, it can only live because there is a very strong firm, an economy that recognizes itself and sees an interest in these investments. There's something systemic that needs to be arranged. In heritage, we have a solution that tells us that museums and galleries are up to 80% financed from the state budget, which is supposed to remain from municipal, provincial and local, and that is obviously too little. I think that one day in the future we will come to some meaningful regionalisation or "land-inning", if I say so, when the powers will also be more meaningfully regulated than they are now. In the field of theatres, for example, we have about three large national theatre houses, including Nova Gorica, or 11 smaller ones. And there, too, is mostly a contribution from the state, although it is not the founder. The case of Nova Gorica, which is now very typical where some turbulence occurs. The founder is a congregation, the payer is a state, the responsibilities are not clear or sufficiently well-divisioned. Scenarios can be huge. One is certainly in a meaningful division into the future when some of these powers are to be transferred to a lower level, but I personally believe that there should be another thought here that not only speaks of who pays, but also why, how and what. This is said to be a major reflection on the reform within the public sector, the way in which it works best in the most responsible way, as well as the autonomous way in which it works optimally, regardless of who pays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, you want an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much for this answer, although I have not received a concrete answer, because I believe that it is not possible to give it in such a short time. I'd like to correct you a little bit. I am pleased that you are also aware of the financial problems that the theatre has, the founder of which is the Municipality of Novo Mesto. By misinformed you, this theater costs Novo Mesto Municipality every year at least EUR 400,000. And it is true that without the support of the Krka it would be harder to function than it is today. The library, 44 employees, is also a heavy burden for the Novo Mesto municipality, and this library is funded or serviced by the entire region. From the former Municipality of Novo mesto, at least six or seven small congregations have now emerged, and all the burdens remain in the municipality of Novo Mesto. True; some of these municipalities are in Slovenia; they are funding such institutions in the field of culture; of course, sports, but we will talk about this on another occasion, now about culture; where we are looking for some solutions and it would be necessary to go into some change - either in local self-government or in some other way to distribute these obligations also in some other way. It will probably be the most elegant and simple solution for a part of this burden to be taken over by the state or the entire Ministry of Culture. In this sense, I would expect you to take your stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u163	However, the addition to the fact that there is no misunderstanding, I know that the municipality is co-financed by Anton Podbevška, which is still a society, I hope that public institution or something that will define this very important tradition more clearly soon. Maybe by the time you celebrate the New York Spring anniversary, I think it'll be the second year. But it is also true that the economy, and I like to highlight this spectrum of aid that comes from the economy because it is important, because we see it too few times, we commend it and we find it too few times. After all, that the economy decides and not everyone, Lek does not, while others, Krka, means that it can identify with its environment and see some interest, which is very, very good for the community, for local or any other community. Librarians. I know Newcomer's got problems. She was building psst, psst, and anyway, but she didn't finish. But you've been alerting me to some other problem. The problem of sharing of competences between the municipalities for these so-called central libraries, which are 10 and 57 others. This is again a question of the ability to negotiate. Arrangements, as far as possible, not only in libraries, but also in other cultural institutions, can be a domain of individual local communities. What they're investing, what they're going through, not saying, "That's mine and I won't." This discussion will certainly take place for a long time. Other countries may have easier to deal with because they have different geographical, historical, larger surfaces, literally geographical, and it is not difficult for them to regulate something in the regions that we may not be able to do right now or that we are not able to do. We'll be able to do it sometime. I'm sure it's just like my parents. Children become independent when they recognize responsibility and when they do not take care of everything for them but impose their responsibility on them. That's when they're freer and they're doing better. And I think it's going to have to happen once that the state will withdraw and it's wrong that it has its fingers everywhere. That doesn't mean she's making money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Member Franz Puksic has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! My question is not about who will pay for the transport of children to school because the Law on Local Self-Government defines it as a cost to the local community. My question is this: How long, and how long, will the local communities also pay with a factor of ten or more miles? The Regulation on the manner in which the economic public service is carried out, the public line transport of passengers and the concessions of this public service also rests on Article 50 of the Road Transport Act. This Regulation is a fundamental sin. It is already a sin in paragraph 1 of Article 4, which states that this Regulation does not apply to the transport of passengers in urban transport and the transport of pupils in primary schools. Therefore, this Regulation does not apply to the transport of primary school pupils. This Regulation shall continue to record everything as it must be that the financing of public line transport is also covered by Article 38 of the budget. From the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, about EUR 20 million is allocated at the annual level. Article 40 then states that the price of transport services shall be determined according to the length of transport, the time of transport and the type of ticket. Dear Mr. Secretary! I have a contract with one of the local communities in front of me, which is not the village of Destrnik, where for 12.8 kilometers from 6.55 to 7.40 prices per km, you will not believe, 9.75 euros. If you take the phone and call any carrier, he will take you to Venice on Sunday for a trip of no more than 0.95 euros. I checked that out a few minutes ago. Whether transport is 8.5km on the route or I will mention time at the price of 10.53 euros, which is only EUR 179 per day for this municipality. So, of course, it turns out that the prices are slutty and I think there might even be some sort of criminal complaint. In short, I ask you, Mr. Minister: What will you do to make this situation work for the local communities that are paying for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Pukšič, for the question. These prices are really high, you have to admit that. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act adopted in December 2008 provided a legal basis for the extension of concession contracts with bus carriers by the end of 2010. On the basis of these contracts, bus carriers carry out transport in public line internal transport, which does not include those mentioned by you, of primary school children. According to public law, the provision of transport for these children is within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, as you have rightly established. The municipalities shall be able to choose, on the basis of invitations to tender, the most favourable bidder for the conduct of these transports. The Ministry of Transport, as a short-term measure, is preparing a new Regulation on the conditions for the transport of children's groups on the basis of which they will be amended accordingly, adapted standards to be met by children's transport vehicles. It's one of the obstacles. In this way, it will be possible for an additional part of the buses intended for regular liner transport to take over the transport of primary school children. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which is the manager of the public line transport system in internal road transport, will try to further adapt the timetables to the needs of school transport. With this measure, these problems could be mitigated slightly. To this end, it will call on the municipalities to provide transport services necessary to enable them to comply with the timetables in line traffic. School transport because of the poor use of buses, given the number of kilometres transported, can be considered too expensive and represents a high cost at the national level. I understand what you said was still the cost of the congregations. In most cases, by including transport in public passenger transport, we could add a few more rides on the same routes for a small fee, allowing the use of public transport to students and employees, which is the case for those areas where school transport is the only form of public transport. If school transport were included in the public line transport system, municipalities would buy monthly tickets for school-bound children at the applicable price and would significantly reduce these costs in the public passenger transport manager. I thank you for your warning. I will examine your proposals once we have prepared new acts for public line passenger traffic on the road. We'll keep your comments in mind, and we'll try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u169	Minister, thank you very much. I am happy to hear your answer because it really suggests some solutions. This problem, as I have already mentioned, has been addressed by all governments, as well as the latter, and has not come to a solution. I see my own solutions. I'd like to add the following. This could then be the case in the Regulation - since in the Regulation the amount of the initial duty, the tariff could be fixed by the Government and could therefore be fixed at the maximum level of this tariff. You said that the municipalities are chosen on the basis of the tender of the most favourable bidder. That is true, but in the vast majority in the demographicly threatened areas there are no providers, but there is only one, and therefore there are such prices as they are. I suggest the following. If you give local communities the opportunity, of course through the law, to give parents the money they spend on transporting children to school and to take care of their children to school themselves, one argument would be thrown out to carriers and their prices would definitely fall. Secondly, as regards the tariff. If they did so by setting a tariff of up to 1.2 euros, they would also take a step forward, because we could not go through this and those who have public transport should also do so. Or, of course, the possibility of introducing a school bus, which would have completely different rules, which would be used as in many other countries - also for sport, culture and so on, outside school, which means Saturday, Sunday and so on, when they go through various competitions, to school in nature and so on. In short, I'd like you to study some of the possibilities that I'm opening up in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u171	We're going to explore these options. And as we prepare new regulations for public passenger traffic along the roads, we will examine these matters and then we will be able to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will ask the Transport Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you: When do you expect the Slovenian Highway Cross to finally be completed? In fact, we know that the deadline for completion moves from month to month, with an average of six months moving by year. Thus, the former Prime Minister of the Government said that he would be completed in 2008. About six months ago, we heard that by the end of 2009, today I am reading in one of the clocks to be completed - this is the last section of Trebnje - by the end of next year. Now we know that the media can't believe everything. Here I thought it was a text that was written last year, but I was very concerned, but what if it is true. I'd like an exact answer. I believe you may not be able to give it today, the exact date: month, week, day. If you don't tell me today, I'd ask you to tell me in the next few days, and you'll tell me today when I'm going to find out. But you need to know that I'm going to ask you this one more time because I can be quite uncomfortable and insist on some things.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Kek, for the question. I'd be the happiest person if I could give you an exact answer. After I took over the ministry, I quickly realized that it's just that predicting deadlines is one of the most annoying things, because you're actually connected to a lot of things, which affects those hands, and as a minister, you don't have an impact on everything. That is why we are also preparing proposals, including for other sector ministers, so that we can better predict these hands. I can tell you how much I have today, what the situation is. On the main highway cross are the construction of sections: Pluska-Ponikve-Grastje 15 kilometers on the lower highway leg, reconstruction of the Peračica-Ponikve-Podtubor motorway with a length of 2.4 kilometers and the eastern Maribor bypass Pesnica-Ptujska with a length of 10.5 with a connecting Zrkovska road. The construction of these missing sections on the lower motorway leg was foreseen by the end of 2009. We won't be able to reach that deadline, I can tell you for sure now. The fact is that some procurement procedures have been delayed. Unfavourable weather conditions in this winter and problems with land and other construction properties do not allow accelerated work dynamics. For these reasons, both sections will be expected. - projected to be placed on the market in the first half of 2010. The Eastern Maribor Highway will be built and placed on the market in June 2009. If we look slightly wider than the main highway cross, the plan for the transfer of motorway sections, which are an integral part of the national programme, is as follows: Pomurski kark was completed in 2008, in Styria is in the construction of Slivnica-Drazenci, which will be dedicated in 2009, the construction of the section Gorišnica-Ormož will begin. There is a section of the fast road through Rebrnice, which will be placed on the market this year, on the coastal highway. I can't exactly predict when. Koper-Isol, where we have a similar complication with public procurement, where construction has moved far into the future, is envisaged for handover in 2012. There are preparatory works for the construction of the Jagodje-Lucija section. The second phase of the Šentvid tunnel with connecting roads to the Celovska road will be dedicated to the transport in Ljubljana this year. All those deadlines will be specified. The answer to the second part of your question, when will you know exactly? In the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of the 2009 Highway, which will be agreed on by the National Assembly. The proposal for an annual plan is currently in the stage of intersectoral coordination with the Ministry of Finance and other competent ministries. In addition, the contents of the annual plan are also addressed by the Interdepartmental Working Group set up by our Government with a view to preparing funding for highway and other programmes. By the end of this month, the Interdepartmental Group has to provide answers, which is more than just a matter of deadlines, and I am also concerned about financing the construction of motorways. For the sections provided for in the additional motorway programme, placement in the space is ongoing. The most important sections in this section are Postojna-Divica-Yelšane, Drazenci-Gruškovje, Koper-Dragonja, the northern part of the third development axis and other parts. The time dynamics in the construction and funding of these sections will be determined by amending and supplementing the resolution on NPIA.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Keck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u177	The reasons for not finishing are often very banal. In the past, we have also come across a number of times that some performer had too little workforce or machinery to work on two sections at once and then artificially extended deadlines for selecting the operator and so on. Today I read what the main problem is around Trebnje. It says here, "they're blocking the fights for the land," because someone who should have moved out wants the weekend legalized, so that at least that's where they move out and stuff like that. I hope you can get over these obstacles. You know, there's a lot of people down there. It's been moved so many times. We have also heard how Krka helps the country in the theatre, let the country help economic facilities and entities and people who live there and complete this highway cross as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Kek, not only you, many colleagues and colleagues did not make a request to complete the reply, but they commented. I was so nice, and I didn't talk about it. If possible, we stick to this principle, which we have in the Rules of Procedure as much as possible. But it's not just you. More than half of them did the same. Mr Daniel Krivic has the floor and he will ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! I would like to introduce you to the issue of transportation of the crossings of Vršič and Prejek, which are very important for the Upper Valley. In wintertime, the population there can be left completely unrelated to central Slovenia, which is very important in terms of the state- and morale of the population. That such a situation is fully possible also proves the event in November 2000, when Preděl was closed because of a famous beach in Logo under Mangarto, and the journey through Vršič due to the danger of snow beaches, and the journey down the Soča Valley due to the rock disaster in Kobarid. This winter too, due to heavy snowfalls, the Vršič crossing, which is the most important connection with Gorenje and Ljubljana, is untransportable and closed. As you probably know, there are also many problems with the transportability of the Predel crossing, since on the Italian side the crossing was cleared only after three weeks of closure. Not even the oldest inhabitants remember the long closures of the district road. The crossing itself is of great importance for the inhabitants of Upper Soča, and especially for the inhabitants of Bloško, because it provides key communication with central Slovenia. Travel time to Ljubljana is more than an hour shorter along this route than the road leading through the Soča Valley and Idrijca. On the other hand, people actually use the road to work regularly in Italy and Gorenjska. In recent years, we have observed, and several times have happened that Preděl Pass has been closed for several days because of the danger of snowflakes. In the past, this has not usually happened except for a day or two. The traffic of the road on the Italian side was well maintained at the time already due to the permanent crew of the border police and customs. Due to problems with maintenance of the Presel crossing on the Italian side and the non-transportability of the Vršič crossing, there are also negative consequences for the economy, especially for the tourist work. Because of the closed and poorly crawled road, many tourists in the pre-new period cancelled their stay in the upper Soča valley. Since there is a fear that the Vršič crossing will remain untransportable until spring this year, and since the actual winter is not over, problems on the Italian side of the Predjel can be repeated. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What will you do to ensure the transportability of both crossings in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you for asking. We worked together for Predel and were obviously successful because of this blockade, the Italian cleansing of their side. So I thank you for that call, when, with your efforts, we solved the matter as quickly as possible. A meeting in Udinah with the prefect and the mayor was then convened on your initiative. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the DRSC and it was agreed that there should be no further such problems in the future. There will certainly be cooperation at the operational level, and I am sure that at least such things will not happen at this time at the Predepartment. The time to travel to Ljubljana along this route is indeed virtually an hour shorter than the road leading through the Soča Valley and Idrijca. The road is also used for regular work in Italy and Gorenjska. So we're aware of this problem. I've done a little more precisely what seems to be a more acute problem right now. That's Vrish. In accordance with the Law on Public Roads, the Directorates of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, DRSC, are required to ensure the transport of the State road network. Given the weather and the snow conditions, the use of the road at the Kranjska Gora - Erika section is currently limited. The winter maintenance regime of this road shall be such that, in the event that it is not possible to ensure transportability by normal means of creeping, the road remains closed until the weather has improved. After improving the weather conditions, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia issues a report on the snow conditions on the ground. On the basis of these data, the DRSC shall decide whether or not to open the road over Vršič. Currently, the road across Vršič is closed due to adverse weather conditions, due to bad weather forecasts for the following days and when weather conditions are appropriate, this road will also be reopened. In 2006, 2007 ideal projects for the reconstruction of regional roads were developed with remedial measures to ensure the overall transportability of sections Erika - Vršič and Vršič - Trenta and Trenta - Bovec. The above-mentioned projects provide for measures processed exclusively within the existing route of the regional road through the Vršič crossing and will describe them to you: on the regional road section of the Russian road, Erika - Vršič, the area under the Russian Cross - protection with protection nets in several types, the area near the road house - security with strewn fences, the construction of a steering wall for the redirection of snow beaches, the establishment of a control system for the intersection of beaches - in the area of Erjavčeva hut to the top of the crossing - the implementation of systems for the control of snowblow beaches and the construction of two shorter galleries in the length of 100 and 80 metres, the regional road section of Vršič - trenta in the area of the top of the crossing - implementation of systems for the control of snowbroads, the area of the former tunnel - alternative protection of the network and the area of the surveillance systems - the area of the cross-country through the cross-country coast. For the area of the entire road through the Vršič crossing, the establishment of the observation and control service will also be studied and proposed. The estimated pre-budget value for both projects is €42 million for both sections. Alternative routes outside the existing road area were also developed in a special study in 2005. The route under version A is expected to take place in a tunnel of 2.5 km long, and another 700 meters of new road should be built. According to version B, it is expected to take place in a tunnel 681 metres long with 1,900 additional metres of road. According to version C of the 682 meters long tunnel, a further 2.2 kilometers of new road should be built. The level of project processing is at the level of the study, for which I do not yet have financial calculations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Would you like another answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thanks for the answers. I would also like to draw attention to an additional study that was designed for the tunnel just below the top of Vršič, about which we and our colleagues on the mountain side are somehow coordinated to solve the whole issue of winter transport of Vršič. That is why I wanted to ask this question, and I was wondering if you would be familiar with this solution. This solution was presented last year and is also consistent with the naturalists, the Triglav National Park. And given that we are in the 21st century, one would expect to accelerate solutions that will ensure the normal transportability of the state road, because we see that the problems that "friends" can bring to us across the border can be repeated. And in this case, the actual intransigence of this area in the event of the closure of Vršič is long-term. I would suggest that you somehow get to know this solution, which is significantly cheaper than the study you have before you. And in the near future, I would also like a meeting on this subject, so I am taking advantage of the opportunity to give this initiative at this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you, Vice President. Yeah, it's true, another idea was presented. I think it's a 1,100 meters long tunnel. The estimate is EUR 20 million, if I remember correctly, and in fact it is a matter of judgment. The only problem I have been alerted to here is that sections that are dangerous due to the forced snow beaches are below the said hut, where the entrance to the gallery or tunnel should be, and should the tunnel be decided, its location should be carefully examined. Otherwise, its location should cover the entire area of swimming, otherwise the construction of the tunnel would not make sense and would not solve the whole problem. Of course, we're always open to conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's time after this block of questions for the Minister of Transport to get some rest, so here's the next question. Dear Minister Lahovnik, I am sure that Slovenian policy can quickly focus on two key energy policy objectives. The first objective should be to ensure that energy supply is as self-sufficient as possible, as diversified as possible and as independent as possible. The second objective is to ensure long-term access to energy resources. We know that the recent developments in gas supply issues through South Stream gas pipelines, or South Stream, Nabucco, as well as gas terminals on the coast have been highlighted. In view of the various summaries of your statements in the media, I would like to know: What is your attitude towards the gas pipeline of the South Stream and gas terminals? Do you understand them as alternatives? Or as a possible complementary whole to ensure that energy diversification and connection to key energy flows can be maximized? Allow me to assess that the issue of the energy future of Slovenia is too important and too crucial, I am sure that we share this opinion in order to leave it to the party's feudalisation and inter-party harassment. I am saying this especially because there have been more publications in the media recently that have talked about cracks between the two coalition parties. And since I am sure that such hints do not contribute to the in-depth and strategic reflection on the opportunities Slovenia has in this area, I attach them to those who feel that such hints need to be replaced by a strategic consideration of the new national energy programme, which will also consider today's opportunities for Slovenia to achieve national energy interests in the context of the goals we have set in this area in 2003. In my opinion, the last gas crisis, as has been pointed out for many years, is only an increasing energy insecurity that must be better prepared by Slovenia in the interests of the safe, stable and environmentally acceptable supply of people and the economy. Therefore, I should also use this issue to encourage the early consensus in the professional public to pool all Slovenian knowledge in this area and to approach the preparation and implementation of the new national energy programme as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary, I will be grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u188	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u189	At the last extraordinary meeting of the EU Energy Minister, which I also attended, one of the conclusions was that it was the task of the EU Member States to advocate for the greatest possible diversification of both resources and supply routes. One of the conclusions or common positions was that the EU should speak as much as possible with one common voice. This decision came about because of the complications caused by the lack of gas from Russia or through Ukraine and if I now sum up what you are asking me. First time. What the media is writing, I don't know, I also think they have all the right to write and even if they're suggesting about not knowing what, they can suggest, "it's a free country". It is clear, however, that even when we are talking about government policy, we have one government and one government policy, and I am not interested in inter-party divisive and party programmes from that moment on, of course, because I am a member of the government, because the government has its own policy and will also draw up a national energy programme. However, we know that the political basis for each government's operation can be a coalition treaty, but for the Government it is still crucial, and here we agree, the national energy programme. As far as the South Stream is concerned. The South Stream is a pipeline which, of course, aims to avoid Ukraine's territory and to reach an area of the European Union beyond Ukraine, thus addressing the problem of the dispute. Of course, in no way would it reduce Slovenia's dependence on Russian gas. The gas pipeline itself has two branches, one is the southern branch that goes through Serbia, Montenegro, across the Adriatic Sea to southern Italy. The second is this northern border that would cross Slovenia. It is not yet clear where the entry point should be and where the exit point should be. What I would like to say specifically is that, for the South Stream last year, Italy and Hungary bilaterally signed an agreement with the Russian Federation on the construction and establishment of enterprises under the South Stream project. The Commission of the European Union has identified both agreements as acts that are not in the spirit of speaking with one voice, which European energy policy is also working towards. South Stream, and this is probably also the essence of the issue, is increasingly competing with some alternative routes. One such path is the Nabucco project, which is actually placed in the European Union's energy documents and the problem with this pipeline is that it is linked to gas from the Caspian basin and thus largely solves the European Union's overdependence on Russia. On the other hand, the problem arises because it is partly linked to the supply of resources in Iran. To a greater extent, the problem is that the Russian Federation has a significant impact on these countries of the Caspian basin and in full some energy dependence the European Union would not be rid of in this way, and some countries are also thinking about gas terminals. Greece is, for example, an example of a country that has not now experienced such a gas crisis because it has solved it with its terminals they have. The problem with Slovenia is that it would be very difficult to place them on our coast, which is very small. Moreover, we do not even know what will be the final outcome of the negotiations on the terminal in Krk, which is in the territorial waters of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. If I sum up the position, at least the ministries, it is that we are in favour of the South Stream project. Negotiations are under way. We are working hard to reach an agreement that would allow us to conclude an agreement with the Russian side, thereby greatly reducing dependence on the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, as I said. Of course, the whole range of details in this agreement has not yet been resolved, from the question whether this pipeline should be built by a mixed company or not, what ownership relations should be, or whether the Slovenian State should consent to certain tax exemptions, customs exemptions and so on. In short, a lot of questions are still open and if I could be resolution, I would have been in the last few months. We will try to bring them to a successful conclusion, but it is difficult at this point to say what will be the result. We will insist that Slovenian strategic interests are also protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, you will ask a question to the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, other ministers! The unsatisfactory level of awareness of the importance of properly formed identity and national pride on the part of all citizens is a major problem. We face the consequences every day in many areas of social life. In the past, attempts have been made on different sides to remedy this deficit, a subject of civic education and ethics has been introduced, and new content needs to be contained in domestic education. It is clear, however, that without genuine political will, patriotic education will not come to an end, nor will it produce results. At the hearing of the candidates for the minister, some current ministers stressed the importance of patriotism and identified the need for a greater role of patriotism and domestic education, but this was not found in the coalition agreement. In recent times, the President of the Republic has also spoken publicly about the importance of patriotism as a value twice, and the Minister of Defence has also stressed that patriotism with all its values needs to be embedded in human resources education for the purposes of the defence system. The unsatisfactory level of national identity is directly linked to the difficulties in complementing the composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and we are also facing a deficit in 'journalism' on current issues of national interest regarding Croatia's entry into the European Union. That's why I'm asking you: What measures will your ministry take in the field of education and education to address the shortcomings and problems that we are seeing in the long term? I'm also interested in: Is there a political will in government for such action? I want to know: Do you personally agree with the great importance of patriotism as a value, or what your view of people’s claims from your political and academic background is that it is a premodern value? And, Mr. Minister, I ask: Have you already apologized to the Slovenians, especially the Primors, for your claim that the tigers were the terrorists you said 5. On the 9th day of the 2005 victory, and have taken it from the same statement of the revolutionary from the tops of the former totalitarian authority? This is symbolic because it is not possible to build patriotism on the TIGR falsehood.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, for your questions. There are a lot of questions. First of all, it's about patriotism. As I said, my basic position is that patriotism is a component of the educational process. It's a component of this school. What seems important to me and what may have been neglected in the previous term is this civil part, which somehow puts young people in a position to see and actually participate in decision-making processes. In order to support this value, including through practical action, I have so far attended all meetings of secondary and primary school officials and kindergartens, in order to give a clear message that the ministry and this ruling policy are open to people. By doing so, I have given a message to the principals and teachers as to how I imagine cultivating this fundamental value, which is called native education. In fact, the country is where it's good, but it's good where we all work together. So, I think that domestic education is only too small to reduce to textbooks and flag spells, although of course this is also necessary. I also point out that the lack of domestic sense and pride, which we all find in some ways, cannot be resolved only through the school system. So, politics, government, parliament, judiciary, county - all of this gives a major and fundamental framework to what the socialisation of young people is going through. It seems to me that it is very important to know this framework. Directly on what colleague Jerovšek asked. Things are moving on. The Ministry has called for three objectives of a targeted civic education research project, so that these projects monitor what is happening in the world and with us in the area of civic and domestic education. And it seems good to me that we have always had some reflection from this area also from research species. A number of projects were also launched last year, and funding was made available for learning, education for teachers from this area in primary and secondary schools. So that teachers can also be educated in this area, and I think that this will increase the quality of the educational process in the field of home and civic education. So much for that. And now for the TIGR. If you have followed, and always follow this closely, you can see that immediately after that statement that was made at the 2005 press conference, which was aimed primarily at what I strongly opposed and I also object that the previous government used TIGR as a fight or as a tool against the liberation front, to discredit the liberation front; that is to say that. And I also made that public in an interview that followed in June in Del. I must say, the tigers are my good friends, from the vice president to the main activists. I have also been to Bazovica several times, and I would be happy to meet one of those who ask these questions. So the basis on which I am building my own image of the country and of this country seems to me to be healthy and we are also transferring them to the Ministry in this way. This is my personal position, and I hope that this also answers the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer, Mr Jerovšek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I must say, Minister, that your answer was as vague as most of the previous ones, which I am very disappointed about today as to how this will take place. And I'm particularly surprised that you used the old thesis that the previous coalition didn't have Tiger fans. Look, I come from Styria alone, on the right hand side during the occupation, and yet I am aware - and it made me that your Resident at the time that the tigers were terrorists, so sorry, and I know how terrible the reactions were by the Primors, and then your President had to demente you. And I've never heard of you giving up on that. Are you going to make sure that there's a theory in the textbooks that there were terrorists, that they burned schools, and I don't know what's in the textbook under Mr. Repeto's pen, and I think it's a similar thesis that this is going to work out in your mandate. There are quite a few Primors behind your back here, and I know it's monstrous that today's challenges persist in the learning-training process. I ask you to be aware that this is an extremely important foundation and do not say that whoever wanted to discredit this against OF, the tigers were the first fighters against fascism. Well, that's something to admit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u196	Mr. Secretary, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u197	We could talk about who the first fighters were against fascism. For example, in Mareziga in 1920, people in a spontaneous battle killed two fascists with stones because they were not allowed to vote. TIGR was established seven years later. So let's be precise, let's be exact. Now this observation about the exactity you've addressed to me. I said that in an interview with Del in 2005, I publicly presented my position on TIGR. to talk about the fact that the answer was not exact. He was very effective for all those who follow my career very closely. It seems to me, in 2009, to repeat the evidence after I have explained it more than once, is simply incorrect, if not distasteful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will ask the Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's a little long to read, but it's going. Despite the absence of a Minister, I do not know why his work has fallen so far, nor does he fall on a competent committee. We'll forget what it looks like. I want her to answer me orally next time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u200	Mr. Friend. This morning you were informed that Minister Dr Žekš was justifiably absent because of his business trip to Italy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u201	I've got ten seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u202	Yeah, I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u203	The official views of the Italian Government on the Slovenian minority living in Italy are, in essence, confined to hate speech, if we can say so. To sum up only the last position of Mr Napolitan, who speaks publicly about this, this discredit of the Slovenian minority, and the empty promises of Mr Berlusconi, who promised our Prime Minister that Italy's financial obligations to the Slovenian minority would be fulfilled, Italy has done nothing good in this area for the Slovenians. So, of course, I'm interested in: What will the Slovenian government's views be when the Slovenian National Party has filed a criminal complaint against war criminals in the previous term, and we know that war crimes do not go too far under international law? So for those Italian fascists who have cruelly murdered Slovenians who have never been convicted in history. The competent minister will have to open this question and in some way request an apology for Mr Napolitan's words. I would also like to touch further the fact that the TV signal in Venice has not yet been established and activated, although Slovenia has given quite a bit of money from the state budget, and thus the image and sound of Slovenian foreigners remains a taboo. I would like the Minister to point out to Mr Berlusconi, who is, in a way, a monopolist of painting and sound in Italy, to release this television signal, for which we need only the permission of the Italian Government, so that this technique can also be used. Compared to the use of the Slovenian programme, we can see that the Italian minority broadcasts 90% and that we cannot even Slovenian subtitles when the programme is designed for the Italian minority. Moreover, for our money it is also recorded in Croatia for the purposes of the Italian minority, living in Croatian territory. The Monoster Museum would only need two salaries a month, and 60 euros a month from the worker, and we can't do that. We'd rather lock him up. The garden in Lower Seine is so modest that the children, I speak for Hungary, eat from military services. I would like the Minister to answer these questions and to be present at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First, the Secretary of Defense. At the time of your term of office, you made some cautious statements regarding the Patrie project, if that's what you'll call it. From your statements, it was to understand two points. First, on the appropriateness of the intended purchase of armoured vehicles, their number and equipment according to the requirements and our promises to Nate. Second, about our ability to actually buy this equipment. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you: The purchase of what number and with what equipment are we obliged to do in order to meet our obligations in the NATO Union? Is this 135, as defined in the contract concluded? Is this obligation bigger or smaller? In the context of considering our ability to actually purchase the vehicles defined in the contract and in the context of the global and Slovenian economic crisis and forecast savings, I am interested in: Are you considering reducing your purchase of the estimated number of armoured vehicles? What kind of reduction are you thinking about? And what does that mean by the contract already signed? However, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior about the same matter: Before the elections there was almost no day when there was no talk of the suspicion of corruption in the so-called Patria affair. There have been many accusations of ineffective police investigations and of a Dependent Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. In one of your comments, you say that it is a fundamental problem because the public simply does not get enough information. Your Minister's colleague, Mr Zalar, also believes that the functioning of the Slovenian authorities remains completely untransparent and that it is lacking to inform the public of the results of the investigation. As Minister of the current government with information, we probably have no more problems, but we have MPs and Members and citizens, because the topic is virtually no longer emerging from the day of the media elections. I would like to point out that we lack information and comments on the Patria affair. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Secretary, What has the Ministry, under your leadership, done to bring the matter to an end within its powers and to answer all open questions with us? What are the possible results of the investigation so far? I'm asking you: Why do you not inform the public of the results of the investigation as you yourself have consistently requested from the previous government? And it was also right that you asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor, I'd like to warn both ladies and gentlemen that they have five minutes to respond together. Here you are, Madam Secretary of Defense. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for this question, because I am very pleased that the discussion of Slovenian obligations on NATO membership has moved or returned to the National Assembly. In fact, if you ask about the obligations regarding the goals of the forces of Slovenia as members of NATO and are already accepted, then the answer is very short. The obligation is significantly greater. However, if you ask about that part of the goals of the forces that the Rotis Treaty should cover and the acquisition of Patriye, the answer is slightly different, but not significantly more optimistic. In 2004, the National Assembly of Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces confirmed plans to equip the Slovenian Armed Forces with three motorized battalions with medium-sized armoured vehicles. Later, these plans changed slightly, with the Slovenian Army obliged to organize or form two medium-sized battalion groups and a reconnaissance company. If we come from what was concluded with the contract, then we find that there are 135 vehicles, 25 of which are unequipped. In this Treaty, information and communication equipment shall be available only for half of the vehicles purchased. The military power of these vehicles is also lacking, it is said that the Treaty does not fully comply with all the obligations arising from that part of the objectives of the force which should be covered by this Treaty. It is also true that the economic situation, as you correctly point out, today shows a significantly different financial capacity of this country than it was when these plans came into being. And the fact is that the contract for the purchase of patriots goes back to 2013, which we do not yet have the relevant planning documents adopted. In the coming days and weeks, on the basis of the strategic review of the Defence Department, which is now taking place at the Ministry of Defence, we must - and we are also doing so - reflect on the content of the Treaty, on its change in line with the objectives of the Force and, above all, on what you are particularly interested in, that is to say, on the reduction. What are the thoughts on reducing, I can't say at this point. However, I can say that the objectives that the country must meet will be carried forward to future planning periods. In particular, for a period covered by the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will be available or will also have to be adopted in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members! In order to investigate irregularities in the purchase of armoured vehicles, a joint investigation team led by the State Prosecutor was established with Finnish police officers. The Attorney General also directs the work of police officers to investigate this case. In the context of team management, the decision on the scope and content of the information to the public on the conduct of the investigation of the case is also within the competence of the State Prosecutor. I am aware that comprehensive information to the public, in particular Members and Members, is very important and I am also committed to this in the management of the Ministry. However, I cannot and do not wish to interfere with the powers of the Attorney General when he is conducting an investigation into the case and in accordance with the course of the investigation, he decides to inform the public. I am confident that the public will be fully informed of the results of the investigation as soon as possible. While the police leadership assured me that the case is being dealt with as a matter of priority, that the working group is working well and that cooperation with Finnish colleagues is running well. The police have all the resources necessary to successfully investigate this case. As Minister of the Interior, I will continue to make sure that the police have all the necessary support, in accordance with the law on police, so that they can carry out their duties without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mag. Crane, would you like an additional answer? [[No, no, ……]] Dr Luka Juri will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and, of course, to ministers and ministers! Question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Slovenia faces a very topical issue of new energy sources, and after the gas dispute between Ukraine and Russia, this has become so much more obvious, namely how important and strategic the issue is. As part of the European Energy Strategy, Slovenia urgently needs further diversification of its resources, from cooperation in the construction of the Nabucco gas pipeline, which will allow independence from Russian will in the supply of gas to a medium and long-term transition to the use of renewable energy such as geothermal, solar or wind resources. Among the various sources that Slovenia could benefit from, wind energy has been mentioned for some time now, not only in the Primorska area. In this direction, attempts have already been made to build a wind power plant. The most concrete example was the Elektro Primorska project on the Volova rib, but due to many concerns and open questions the project did not see the light. Electricity produced by wind turbines is one of the cleanest since it does not produce toxic or greenhouse gases. At the same time, it should be noted that the pollution caused by the production, transport and installation of wind turbines is compensated in the first nine to twelve months of operation. On the other hand, ornithologists and environmentalists point to the damage caused by wind turbines to birds, although this damage is still much lower than that caused by other human activities such as traffic. In Britain, for example, about one bird died on each wind turbine in 2007, while about 10 million died from a car crash. In addition, birds suffer from pollution caused by the generation of electricity by fossil energy such as coal. However, wind energy would contribute to reducing their use and contribute indirectly to improving the non-criminalization of the habitat for birds and other animals. I want to know: Are there currently activities for the establishment of wind power plants in any part of Slovenia? At the same time, I want to know: What is the general policy of the Ministry on this subject? And: Does the Ministry support such a project? And if so: Which typology is considered a priority? We know large systems among possible wind power solutions, but we also know smaller ones that are more environmentally acceptable, and at the same time produce significantly less electricity. I'm still wondering: Is there an integrated Ministry study on wind energy use? And if there is: What are her main findings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary. I want to ask you about your plans. How will you take action to improve the staffing situation in the police ranks so that there will not be so many unprofessional, unfair and unprofessional procedures in dealing with offences or crimes? As a result, of course, such a large number of complaints by participants in proceedings. Just last year, almost 400 complaints or exactly 372, not to mention many who did not or did not hope to file complaints for such or other reasons. Let me just remind you of the suffering of members of the Slovenian National Party in the event of the colouring of border stones at the Slovenian-Croatian border, when police officers charged with Slovenian citizens. However, they did not investigate the operations of Croats on the left bank of the Mura River, so in Slovenian territory, when Croats moved border stones, our police did not even notice that. Not to mention a special group of prosecutors who usually dismiss such and similar cases. They are formally treated, but, of course, they are treated in their own way and decide that the matter is not so important. The same is true in cases of the rude, aggressive, abusive behaviour of some police officers, even as civilians, not at work, as was the case in Pomour, when a police officer aggressively attacked my wife verbally in a public place with obscene nationalist insults and humiliations, including at the expense of my parliamentary status. And even in this case, he only took it with a fine of EUR 100 20. However, for a special group of prosecutors, such incidents are of course trivial in nature. It's probably gonna take at least a shot or a murder to get the case taken seriously. I receive more than one letter from the Attorney General's Office, where the Attorney General concludes that Sacha Godnja's conduct, which is how this person is written, is a returnee who has been transferred several times, is not justified by the suspicion of a criminal service. Not to mention the implementation of the Road Safety Act, where such irregularities are the most. A very vivid example, once again from Pomurje, when the police stopped a German citizen married to a Slovenian, retired woman, an old lady, seventy years old, when from recreational cycling she returned home with her husband to Mursko Sobota, and had previously had a glass of good Slovenian wine too, and after having done an alcohol test she was "brought" along with a bicycle in front of her husband's eyes, and taken into custody. That Mrs. is a foreigner, that she does not understand Slovenian, in the procedure for some police officers [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It doesn't even matter that much. [[...]] And a fine of eight hundred euros for the top. I ask the Minister: Does he intend to teach some reasonable assessment in the recruitment or training of police officers? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u215	Dear Member. Otherwise, you didn't make it to the end. I got what your oral question was supposed to be. On this general question, which I have been asked, I am answering you that, if anything were to happen, if anything were to indicate that Slovenian national interests were not being protected at our border, of course, I would act in accordance with my powers. As far as the protection of human rights is concerned in such procedures; the repression you mention; security concerns are one of the key priorities I have set in the work of the interior ministry. The tasks of the police in the rule of law are primarily to protect the individual, his property and respect for the laws and legitimate social objectives. It is therefore necessary to ensure, at the legal, supervisory and enforcement levels, consistent respect for human rights, the principle of legality, equality before the law and proportionality in the performance of police duties. When there is a violation of the law, it is necessary to act in accordance with the law in force, and the police are equal before the law. However, where the suspicion of criminal service is raised, the case must be brought to the attention of the specialised section of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office responsible for dealing with such acts without delay. Even in the case of your wife this happened, the case was dismissed by the Attorney General's Office. However, there is never enough education, there is never enough improvement. In the police, we are preparing a series of reorganisations, including to strengthen our staff to have more education each day. There have been a number of educations in the area of border police, so that police will be able to work with people, so that they will know what their relationship must be to them in order to respect their human rights. In addition, at the Ministry, we are also trying to get out of this scattered control that now exists; so some complaints are going to the police, something to the Ministry, something is being dealt with by the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office; it would result in a uniform, professional, European comparable control, which will eventually achieve that such matters as you mentioned today would no longer happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u217	Everything you've said sounds good. I believe you will work in this sense. But I'd like to finish some more important things. That is to say, if you intend to train, among other things, police officers, those critical police officers, on a reasonable assessment of the situation, on taking into account the rules of the image, on all others for the procedures of critical rules and, lastly, on the legal formal right of discretion, for which the use of one particular degree of reason and a more complex understanding of the case in the process is required. And that you will not misinterpret me, there are many very good police officers in your ranks, and unfortunately many who cast a dark shadow on the work and reputation of the police. And my speech is directed at you. I know that the salaries of police officers aren't exactly at a high level, and you don't have any choice in your staffing, so you'll be able to get all your staff in a row. I'm asking you: Do you plan to increase additional education? You've already answered that question. So that this kind of frame doesn't happen in a row, and I'm also curious: Do you keep a record of the actual residence of employed police officers in the Police Department? Because in the above case of this critical officer, it was not possible to deliver a payment order because they simply could not keep it hot because they did not know where the police actually lived and lived. It is said that such cases also occur, which are absurd in nature. I wouldn't say it's a homeless person, it's a deleted person, but if the police didn't know where the cop was at home, in fact at home, he was reported to some ex-wife, or somewhere else, but he doesn't live there, it says, it's simply not possible to deliver payment orders. And we could count it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The police don't do everything in order. There are procedures by which officers are taken to work, there is a school, there are conditions. But it's true that we're all people, including cops, and mistakes happen. It is our intention that all police officers really understand that they are in the service of the nation, that they must primarily protect our own citizens and citizens, and that we will continue with this awareness and education. I am pleased to see that, while among our species, there are mostly good and capable police officers. As far as a specific case is concerned, a failed service. This, of course, cannot prove that someone in this place does not live. People go to work, after other tasks and, of course, the police also conduct procedures for the reimbursement of transport costs to work, where clear written statements are made from where the police drive to work. The records are clear. But it can happen, like all other people, that a police officer is not at home and no service is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič will ask the Minister a question. Here you go. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u221	Yeah. I would like to because the matter is so complex and very important that, in accordance with Article 246 of this debate, one of the meetings of the National Assembly where, among other things, the Minister could provide data on the sanctioning of such cases: how many cases were there when they were sanctioned? Because according to the press, they're ridiculously low numbers. These are some six cases where suspicion was justified and this represents a percentage and a half of the complaints filed. Unless, of course, I do not believe that this has been the case and it would be good for us to have a discussion with other ministers as well. Because this is the case, look, which one of the cops lost his job by now? Unless he killed someone or that case in Celje, I don't know what it was, or he smuggled some cocaine across the Italian border. Otherwise, it is almost impossible for these servants to lose their jobs. Compared to the workers in the factory who lose their jobs for minor crimes. What am I talking nonsense about? They're also losing their jobs today because they're too high because they're too high in technology because it's a crisis. In the public sector, however, it is not just that, Madam Minister, you, the ministry, I think, are generally 200,000 employees in public services. Yes, who lost their job today because they committed violations because they failed to do so because their company’s reputation, or in this case the Ministry, was corrupt in public and so on. These things here, like you're privileged caste compared to workers who find it hard to serve bread in a factory, and employers only fire them because they speak ill of their company in public. God forbid, O employer! In this case, in public services, look, anything can happen, even through you, Madam Minister, one policeman is a prostitute, in public speaking, I don't know what, because we've heard a lot of this, and you can't do anything to him, but you can't sanction him, let alone forgive him. It is therefore necessary to discuss these issues in a definitive manner so that all citizens, all employees in all sectors, are treated equally. But let's not say that the public sector is privileged to forgive, sanction at work. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Györek's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of the delegation will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. Now, Mr Dejan Levanič, he will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministers and to the Minister. In the Ombudsman's report, we can see that in the area of housing, there have been many calls for assistance from citizens and citizens, but most importantly the fact that the issue, open questions and uncertainties in the implementation of the legislation have been highlighted for several years. Despite constant warning, the situation remains unchanged as the country has almost completely abandoned the market and the functioning of its legality. Young families and socially weaker ones also have very poor opportunities to resolve the housing issue. On the other hand, many construction companies today face reduced orders in this economically unfavourable time. This is why it is a very important reaction from a country which has this opportunity to ensure with increased investment activity that the whole sector is re-energised, both in the field of road infrastructure and in the area of housing. I therefore ask the Minister for Environment and Space: Is the government considering accelerating housing construction in the future? And: Does the Government plan concrete steps towards establishing a temporary housing fund following the example of Sweden as set out in the Coalition Treaty? Given that the Minister is not present today and is reasonably absent, I would like to request an oral reply at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u225	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. Dear Minister of Health, I probably don't have to explain what the demographic picture of Slovenia is and where the trend is going. Probably no one understands more clearly than you, Mr. Secretary of Health, what aging the population means for a health treasury and what a cost it is. That is why, of course, I would expect any step in the direction of new generations that would change this demographic picture to be welcomed and encouraged by the state. We are in the years when grandchildren and grandchildren of the "baby-boom" generation are born. In short, in the years when the increase in births in Slovenia is detected again, the number exceeds 20,000 births per year and I myself have had this honor and blessing in the past two years to become a father twice. Of course, I was disturbed by one thing at this very happy event. In spite of the fact that I had to pay my two sons compensation for being present at the time of the birth of my children. Slovenian obstetricians have different practices regarding the presence of birth. Generally, they also have courses for future fathers to attend, which is of course beneficial. Some claim compensation for their birth but some do not. So I ask you, dear Minister of Health, because we know that the presence of a father or just anyone known to a relative in the family has a positive impact on the family and probably on the late father's relationship with the children and so on, and so on, I ask you: Does it seem reasonable to you that some midwives are demanding cash compensation for this? Or else: Do you see any legal basis for such conduct? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u227	Mr. President-in-Office. Member of the Commission, I must fully confirm and agree with you all your observations as an explanation of the question. We are probably all happy that the birthrate in Slovenia is growing, as you have found. I agree with you that the presence of a father in childbirth is positive both for the mother who gives birth and for the first contact with the child. However, I must conclude that the presence of the father or of any other person who may be invited by the mother to give birth is not a right of compulsory health insurance. Therefore, those maternity wards that charge this service do not charge unlawfully. It is said that the presence of the father; and now it is unnecessary to explain to you what you received at the course, what the costs are in the maternity ward, that there is a need for a special bed and a special room to be delivered alone; there are some additional services, some additional costs which are not the right of compulsory health insurance, so charging such a service is not contrary to existing legislation. As much as I can check this cost in the course of this morning is charged in most of the 14 Slovenian births.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your answer. If this is so that the costs are justified elsewhere, and the maternity homes are more humane, then so be it. You say yourself that this is not a right arising from compulsory health insurance. I'm asking you here and I'm calling on you to make this a compulsory health insurance right. I remember, for example, hypothetically other cases where the presence of relatives in the patient is highly desirable, necessary, in the dying, for example. And I'm not sure that hospitals charge their dying relatives for their presence. That would probably seem absurd. But I think the situation is identical both at the beginning and at the end of life. And that this should be something that the state would allow for every citizen. I hope that you will take some step in this direction as well. So that these arrivals and departures will be equal and equal, I'll say, community, family, if you like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Andrej Magajna, who will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u231	A respected choir! A colleague and a colleague! The student home and cultural center Korotan in Vienna is the site of Slovenian scientific, higher education and cultural life in the Austrian metropolis. The question referred to the previous initiative which I addressed to the Government on 9 January relating to the obligation of the State of Slovenia to purchase the centre of Korotan in Vienna. I ask the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology: Has the purchase also been considered by the SAZU, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art? For years, the government or the competent ministries have been working with the current owner of the Mohorje Society in Celovac for the purchase of a student home. Despite the funds provided in the state budget and the repeated calls by the working bodies of the National Assembly and the Council for a swift resolution of the matter, the Government has withdrawn this topic three times from the agenda. In the coalition agreement, the new governments, i.e. 2008-2012, commit partners to buy out the home of Korotan in Vienna. Regardless of the fact that the resources will in any case be provided by the Government, it is very convenient and appropriate to think that as the owner, which must be defined by Austrian law, instead of the Government as such, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Such a decision would give us a suitable candidate not only for formal reasons but also for substantive and symbolic reasons. So, I ask the Minister: Is this option considered as desirable and possible options?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u232	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Chairman. Messengers and MPs! The resolution of this issue, ownership issues and other student status of Korotan's home has been underway for many years. In fact, communication is under way between Mohorje Society, which has been the owner and various ministries or Government of the Republic of Slovenia since 2002. This arrangement has been reached in recent years, from 2005 to 2007, considerable dynamics, individual procedures have also been initiated on the basis of the requests of the Slovenian party, which should in fact be the subject of this agreement, whether to buy an object, or whether it should be purchased with the full activity of companies also owned by the facility. Unfortunately, this agreement has not been concluded. We want to continue our search for a solution and we want it to come to it as soon as possible and here I would like to stress that it is not only a student home as you yourself said, that Korotan is in fact an important source of such cultural scientific, higher education and also Slovenian life in the Austrian metropolis and deserves to consider how to solve this problem and the problem in which, in fact, the actions of the Slovenian side have led Mohorje Society. How do you solve the problem? We want to draw more resources to think about this. I've already given the initiative myself. We are meeting briefly with representatives of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also the Ministry of Slovenians around the world, academics Žekš, to examine closely the procedures so far, see where and why they have remained, what are the options that would be the fastest under, to then go with the representatives of the Mohorje Society to concrete discussions on how to reach the goal as soon as possible. In short, all this reflection is not just about buying, it is also about the question of the next step, the content, the management of everything that the owner must provide if Slovenia becomes one. And the idea that the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art would be the title of this purchase, although in these documents, as far as I have studied them, has not appeared anywhere so far. She was mentioned orally in some interviews, that's the information I got. This is certainly one of the options that should be considered in cooperation with the SAZU, which cannot be imposed on it. However, it is likely that in the interests of national identity and the strengthening of the components that are actually identified by this centre, and for which the SAZU is also very much concerned, it would also find interest in the SAZU. However, this will be one of the options in some dialogue, including with the SAZU. In any case, we must first examine this, so far gone, rather unfortunately crossed and somewhat stalled, the path of the solution sought, and then find the most appropriate form. This, as you mentioned, is one of the options I'm not ruling out.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Minister, in Slovenian prisons from year to year, the number of convicts and detainees who are being set up by the public economic authorities in the system of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions is increasing, in addition to education, the most important element in the process of socialisation. Since the establishment of a public economic institution in the prison system has not proved to be an appropriate solution for the employment of convicts, as some cannot even cover the costs of operation, there has been the beginning of a process of questionable privatisation of public economic institutions, the Pohorje Dob Institute near Mirna, which is intended to provide work for the convicts of the largest Slovenian prison, where the sentence remains 500 of the most dangerous convicts in our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia owns the Public Economics Institute of Pohorje, privatises and establishes a company in which it will employ prisoners from the Age. According to my information, the partner of the Slovenian State and the majority co-owner of the new company will be the German company represented by the retired director of Pohorje Mirna, Mr Milovan Papež. It is known that in its time the company was the only very successful producer of firefighting equipment in the Balkan area and the former common country. The Pohorje Public Economics Institute, Dob pri Mirna, currently employs 67 workers and about 200 prisoners. In a newly privatised limited liability company, owned by a German associate, only 60 jobs will be provided for prisoners, so I ask: Where will the other more than 300 workable convicts work? And: Do you not think that selling a healthy part of the company is harmful? As is known, the country has invested a great deal of money in the rehabilitation of this company. And speaking of money, I'd say, How could the government devote more than € 1.6 million to the justice ministry for the adaptation of the Rab holiday home last year, even though there is no money in the judiciary to expand capacity and modernise prisons and there is no money for workers or for protection funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I thank you for the question, which is more than relevant and also topical, given that we are preparing for the 2009 budget rebalancing. With regard to the first part of the question, I can only tell you that your information is correct, that at the Ministry we are now studying this situation, that we are in talks with all the actors involved in this matter, that no decision has been taken yet. Although the consequences may be good for the budget, given that this public-economic institution is operating with a considerable loss, it is difficult to balance these consequences with the already mentioned loss of employment for a good part of the imprisoned convicts. So, unfortunately, at this point, I cannot give you a definitive answer as to what will be the decision to make here. It depends, of course, on concrete arrangements, not least on agreements with the German contractual partner. I'm sorry that you're actually asking me a question about a matter that I don't have a bearing on as a minister, looking back. However, as far as the situation goes, as Minister, I will make every effort to ensure what the law provides for convicts. Therefore, at the time of the end of the sentence, the State shall also provide them with appropriate work if they so wish. About the second part of your question. How and whether it will be possible to provide funds for the normal functioning of the detention facilities, I can assure you that we are preparing for appropriate coordination with regard to the preparation of the budget balance, that substantial additional resources are actually needed here, both for material costs and for employees' salaries, and that of course we would also like to see some improvements in the field of investment. What I can assure you at this point is that we have already reached an agreement with the Ministry of Public Administration, which the Government must confirm in order to establish an exception for the employment of staff in institutions, such as the one envisaged for employees in the Police and the Army, i.e. the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. An exception in this sense is that there would not be an estimated 2% contraction of the annual staffing plan. And about the holiday facilities. In this case, too, as Minister, I was aware of this unfortunate story of a vacation home in Rab. All I can say in this regard is that the Ministry of Justice of this facility does not, of course, need not, and that the documentation does not show why it was acquired at all. That we have already agreed with the Ministry of Public Administration, which is centrally managing the assets to take over this facility. In this case, too, I regret to find that there has been a heavy burden on the budget for 2009, because the former Justice Minister Šturm is nine days before he gave us the business, he has concluded a contract to finance a specific project and the value of this project is 42,000 euros. Thus, another 42,000 euros are to be paid under this contract. In short, all I'm talking about is a condition I inherited as a minister. However, I can assure you that as a minister, I do not intend to devote any euro to this holiday home or any other similar capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. First up is Dr. Vinko Gorenak. He will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! Even though it's late, I'm going to ask you this: On 25 April 2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the establishment of a public institution, underlining the public institution, the Study Centre for National Reconciliation. For those of you who do not know the matter, let me say that the public institution of a study centre for national reconciliation was essentially set up to achieve public interest in science, education and culture. It performs basic and important organisational, development, advisory, coordination, educational and other tasks in the field of national reconciliation and examines everything, I stress, totalitarianism of the previous century. It is worth noting, however, that by setting up that centre, Slovenia has followed the Central and Eastern European countries and has established such a centre as one of the last. Of course, I'm talking about countries with this kind of historical experience. These countries carry out very similar tasks. The government has foreseen, as in the case of the establishment of all other public centres or similar public centres, the means to pay salaries in order to achieve these funds in the transitional period from the Ministry of Justice, of course, to the first rebalancing or the adoption of a new budget. However, it is regrettable that, at least as reported by the media, these people did not receive salaries on January 5th of this year. This has happened for the first time in history that someone in the wider public sector, I speak of course comparatively, has not been paid. On January 14, you yourself explained that this was somehow a consequence, at least that's how I understood your decisions. You said, this disturbed me, so I am also asking the question of "that it is a matter of privatising the work of the Ministry". Mr. Minister, this is a public institution, not a private institution. That's the basic reason why I'm calling. Of course, I also find it important that you put pressure on employees in this way. But I'm asking the following question: Why was there a delay in payment of wages? Will you ensure that they will be paid in the future? Finally: Will the new budget or rebalancing ensure a normal payment of wages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I understand the concern about this case, and I regret this unfortunate development. In fact, there's been a delay. In fact, the Ministry of Justice does not indicate wages, but only repays the applications submitted for salaries. The remuneration shall be paid directly by this public institution. I am immediately following the term of office of the Minister for the Enforcement of All Contractual Obligations, and in this case, it is also the execution of a contract between the Ministry and the Public Office, which has been authorized by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice. However, as Minister, I did not have and have no operational obligations to finance the contracts. Therefore, in this part, I reject this claim that I have caused or even ordered such a situation to occur. When I was informed and informed, I was directly informed by the Director of the said public institution that this complication had taken place, I immediately requested the Secretary-General's report, and I also received it and ordered it to implement this refund. According to her report, it was essentially a misunderstanding. The contract between the Ministry of Justice and the Study Centre shall be written in such a way as to specify the different deadlines in which a request for a refund of wages should be submitted and to implement this refund. A period of 15 days is fixed for salaries and a period of 30 days for material costs. And since it was only a second refund in line, because this center was established just before last year's end, there was obviously a gap here. As a result, and solely because of this, this delay took place, which was immediately removed. The Ministry of Justice will therefore be careful in the future to comply with its contractual obligations in terms of salaries and material costs, of course, taking into account the current regulatory framework. However, as regards the second part of the issue, the issues relating to the financing of this institution for future and, in particular, its independent budgetary status, I must clarify here that legal persons organised in such an organisational form as the said National Reconciliation Study Centre, namely, as a public institution where the founder and owner of the state are only indirect budgetary consumers, so that the law does not allow such a status of the institution to be a direct budgetary and independent budgetary user. This issue is governed by the Public Finance Act in Article 3, paragraph 5. We have also consulted specifically on this issue with the Ministry of Finance, which has the same opinion. And I'm essentially summarizing this opinion now. The Ministry of Justice will endeavour and have already initiated a procedure to open a new budget line for the Study Centre within the Ministry of Justice, within its budget, in order to ensure that both the Ministry and the Centre operate in an optimal and transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Here's your supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I'm quite calm and satisfied with your answer. But what I took to make this your decision was that I understood more from the media than anything else. And I believe I'm satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u244	Finally, Mr Guido Kres, who will ask a question from the Minister without a resource responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleague, colleagues! I have a question for Mr. Boštian Žekš. In concern at the fate of their continued operation, representatives of the Galeb Editorial Office and the book editions from Trieste addressed me. There's even one magazine here that they gave me, the nice Galeb magazine. They are concerned that after 55 years of publishing a magazine dedicated to the children of Slovenian families in the replacement and home country of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to reduce the funds allocated to the functioning of the minority, they will even have to stop issuing the magazine and other publications they publish in their editorial. I must say that on this occasion they are grateful for the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to date in publishing this publication, as it is co-financed through the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. At that time, however, new circumstances arose. As part of the intention of the neighbouring Republic of Italy to reduce the funds allocated to the functioning of the Slovenian minority in Italy, I am therefore interested in: What is the latest information on the consequences of this Italian government's intention? How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to help affected societies and organisations in the neighbouring country if this drastic reduction of funds actually occurs? Let me remind you that on several occasions we have discussed on the Commission that it is necessary for Slovenians to be included in our unique cultural and economic space in place and around the world, and I think it is now one of the opportunities for us to show ourselves in this regard. However, I expect an oral response at one of the following meetings from the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-26-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Government, the Ministers and the Ministers for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time interrupt the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
