ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., Bogdan Barovic, Iztok Podkrižnik, Miran Jerič from 2.30 p.m. and Robert Hrovat. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before I give the floor to a procedural proposal, I inform you that at 1 p.m., we will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly for half an hour due to the convening of the College on the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday, at 12.00 p.m., the President, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian National Party tabled a proposal to amend the agenda for the consideration of agenda items at this meeting at the 18th point, when we consider municipalities and proposals for the establishment of municipalities. I find that, after almost 23 hours, this material has not yet been reproduced and distributed to members of the National Assembly. However, it would be right for the Members of the National Assembly to decide whether we would first consider point B or point A, and also to decide how we would deal with these proposals, or, as proposed in the working text of the proposal, whether in the package, or whether we would decide as usual on each area's invitation to tender separately. This is particularly important because in the proposal under point B, when it is intended to decide on municipalities to be excluded, they are not allowed to call for an advisory referendum on the establishment of a new municipality, including proposals that meet all the conditions. I think there are five such proposals, and the working body has not dealt with them as it should. We therefore propose that the National Assembly decide to first consider point B to re-vote these cases and to find out and determine that even those few municipalities that meet the conditions have not received sufficient support on the working body have been decided by the National Assembly. We also propose that each referendum area be decided separately by the National Assembly. This has been the custom so far, and I believe that this is also true for all those who propose initiatives for the new congregations. Package voting is not appropriate at all. I suggest that before we come to this procedural proposal, make sure that the material is also distributed on the table, on the table of Members. Unfortunately, we don't have this material on the table yet. And that this work and the sending of materials to the members of the opposition parliamentary groups is a late day, two or even more and we do not get on the table in time. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This wasn't the first case. [[...]] We have had such cases in our previous meeting and, as a result, some complications. So, first of all, I am procedurally proposing that we arrange this before the meeting is resumed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. That's right. I have received this procedural initiative, which was addressed to the President of the National Assembly, which is why it has not been forwarded to all Members and Members with the content, as you presented it: that the National Assembly first examines point 18b, that is to say that the individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, and then only 18a, that is, the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Referendum and the establishment of referendum areas. With regard to this initiative, I must draw attention to Article 14a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which stipulates that "The National Assembly shall consider a proposal to change the territory of the municipality or to establish a new municipality, and if it considers that the conditions for establishing a new municipality or changing its area are met, it shall draw up a referendum to determine the will of the population." The same Article further provides that "if the National Assembly considers that the conditions for the establishment or modification of the municipality are not met when it examines an individual proposal, it shall find out by means of a decision sent to the applicant." Therefore, the order of treatment of both acts is already laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government. Therefore, I cannot put the proposal of the parliamentary groups to amend the order of the points to a vote. The agenda for the 18th item is laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government and I will not be able to put it to the vote because it would simply be contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government if such a decision were adopted. First, it shall be determined which municipalities meet the conditions and will call for a referendum area, and then those who do not, shall be decided not to do so. In order to continue, these parliamentary groups propose to vote individually on individual proposals referred to in Articles 18 and 18b. I note that the draft resolutions and the proposal for a decision are prepared in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of other acts of the National Assembly, as provided for in Articles 169a to 171. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is a one-phase procedure, which was standardised by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was adopted in autumn 2007. Therefore, the previous examination of these initiatives took place in a different manner than the 2007 Rules of Procedure. This amendment allows amendments to be tabled to ensure that each proposal contained in these acts is voted on separately, and it has also been pointed out by reference to the meeting that the deadline for making amendments is the same as it was, within five days prior to the meeting of the National Assembly. The amendments were not tabled and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote after its final consideration on both proposals for acts in full. Therefore, I note that the proposal of the opposition parliamentary groups is contrary to both the Local Self-Government Act and the Rules of Procedure and its 2007 amendment, and therefore the procedure will be carried out as you have been informed by the Group of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u4	Regardless of what Mr Tanko has proposed, I was today incredibly surprised by this instruction that we have received from the parliamentary groups, where you explain in a similar way as you have explained now. You have no basis in the Law on Local Self-Government, nor in the Rules of Procedure, for in this instruction you do not refer anywhere to any article, what should be what you are now explaining, and why this would be necessary. I don't mind if they're late, too. They're late. I don't mind if you take another seat in the leadership of the assembly and figure out what's going on. When an act comes to an end, and in this case you have the 18th decree establishing or calling for a referendum in the area and so on. You have two suggestions in there. Under B you have - and meet the conditions, the legal conditions these proposals meet. Whether or not the decision will be adopted is irrelevant, as the procedure will be completed and it will be determined that a referendum will be opened or they will be notified that the referendum has not been announced. This has nothing to do with 18b, where both the Government and the mother’s working body have found that they do not meet the conditions and are therefore brought to a conclusion. The negative decision itself means, not that they do not meet the conditions, but that the assembly does not have the will to call a referendum. The conditions, as determined by the Government and the mother's working body, meet. This is a significant difference from what's in point B. I therefore suggest that, despite all of these points, you consider how you will lead the process of voting or debate, because, after all, it is a matter of protection that these applicants have, and last but not least, this National Assembly has had some experience when it rejected some of the proposals in previous years, and the Constitutional Court has then called for a referendum in the course of the National Assembly. I warn you, we do not set up congregations, but there too, the National Assembly may decide sovereignly that something will not be established despite the will of the electorate, but that is another issue, but it does not have this competence at the stage when it only signs or signs a referendum to determine the will of the people. This is an essential, essential difference, so I ask you to discuss yourself during this time before we reach this point, because we will come back again as the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court with some vague, forced proposal, and in the end the court will decide that we have done wrong. And if we do that, it'll be easy to find out that we did the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I accept this proposal to reconsider this interpretation of the Law on Local Self-Government and Rules of Procedure. I also propose to the leader of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group that we consider this. So, I propose to everyone together that we change our minds to point 18 and point 18, if necessary, we will give, if we find out otherwise, we will put this as a procedural proposal to the vote - if we find that what has been said is meaningful and necessary. Do we agree? Please. Yes, please, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that this national council is becoming more and more a circus. The round shape is talking about it, but there's monkeys sitting in here, and I never thought of it. And the fact is, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u7	Mr. Jelinčič, this is not how you will speak to fellow Members! Mr. Jelinčič, I didn't give you my word. You have misused the right to speak, in inappropriate words you have named your fellow Members. I won't let that happen. I won't give you my word. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm kind of surprised that when I explained our request, you refused to do so by sending groups. When he said the same thing in other words, Mr Anderlich, you immediately attracted his initiative. And I do not think that the President, at least the President of the National Assembly, can allow him to interpret the same position or proposal in such a different way in two minutes. Once a matter is not appropriate and it sets out a number of reasons for someone else to appear from the coalition parliamentary groups and to say the same, slightly differently, but for the same problem and consequences that may happen, then the matter is immediately acceptable and worth considering. I don't think there should be such double-faced treatment in the National Assembly. We have the same rules of procedure, we have the same legal bases, and we have all faced the same problem in the previous term, when, for reasons I don't know, we had to re-classify these matters. To avoid these problems, honourable President, we have proposed a proposal, which is also commercially corrected, since Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states so. Individual agenda items shall be dealt with in accordance with a specific order. During the meeting, the National Assembly may, for a maximum of two times, amend the order of treatment of individual agenda items, provided that a third of Members do not object." And I note that, until now, there has been no initiative to change the agenda, nor has the agenda been changed. This is the first thing we're facing. At the very least, the chairman should put this initiative to the vote. Unfortunately, there is a need to respect the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, even if you are the President and President of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it has to be done. Let the plenary decide whether or not this initiative will be taken into account, but it must be decided. It is tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure specifies in particular how this can be done, there are no restrictions on the treatment of the order. We can do this twice in this session, and if you accept this, it will be the first time. However, I certainly propose that we do this, because it is a reasonable decision not to expose ourselves then to some procedural issues in other institutions that will lead to the same decision at the final stage. Until the same decision is made when something has to be done, even though the National Assembly has decided otherwise. And there is no need for us to know that this is going to happen, to decide on a different order than we suggested. Let us also be content with this problem and avoid such things. I therefore propose that we carry out this process at this point to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u9	One more time and one last time. I said that my fellow Member, Mr Anderlich, had highlighted some new moments to this, and I said my position. He suggested that we think about it. We will consider this until the opening of the 18th point. And if I find out, after consulting the services, that this proposal would not conflict with the articles and laws that I have quoted, I will put it to the vote as a procedural proposal under Article 65, paragraph 1, and we will vote on it. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Business in the Market, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on e-commerce on the market is to address the uncertainties and shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law itself, which it has repeatedly pointed out to the market inspectorate, as well as the Ministry of the Interior. For reasons of clarity, it was necessary to clarify the area governed by the law. Later, there are limits to the application of the provisions of this Law and the Consumer Protection Act and the powers of individual authorities involved. In this respect, only courts will exercise certain powers under new powers, which is more appropriate in terms of clarity and predictability of the regulation - as it has been possible so far, both judicial and administrative decisions. At the same time, amendments to criminal provisions are proposed. For reasons of greater efficiency, the system of fine penalties has been amended in accordance with the capabilities provided by the sectoral legislation, taking into account both the law on offences and the law on companies. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, the draft law also changed the indication of the Ministry carrying out certain tasks, so that from now on the Ministry will be responsible for electronic communications at any time instead of the Ministry responsible for the economy. The proposal for a law on major substantive changes under the e-commerce directive, which has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by e-commerce law on the market, does not partially change the way it is transferred. The bill was previously discussed by the Committee on the Economy on 10 September, as the president said. He accepted the amendments tabled by SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 1, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 of the bill. The Government considers that the amendments adopted have improved the bill in the light of its greater clarity in the light of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Government, when submitting a bill to the National Assembly, has also proposed that the National Assembly prepare an officially consolidated text of the law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u12	I want a nice hello to all of you. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. At the 11th regular meeting of the Committee on the Economy, this Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on e-commerce on the market as its parent working body. This was the decision of the college before the Law on State Administration was amended, for after that period it was under another department. However, since the decree on the competences of the national labour bodies in the National Assembly has not yet been amended, this has been discussed by the Committee on the Economy. The bill was drafted by the Directorate for Electronic Communications. The Committee was told that this was the last proposal prepared by this Directorate of the Ministry of the Economy and expressed its appreciation and appreciation for the cooperation and work of this Directorate. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has followed, as the Minister initially said, some of the professional comments they have gathered, in particular the police and the market inspectorate on the basis of the empirical work they face each day. The material prepared for consideration is a proposal of the law itself, which was the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendments prepared by the coalition parties. In the introduction, the Secretary of State, Dr Györkös, further explained the bill's proposal, explained the reasons, explained the principles, explained the fundamental ambitions that they want to achieve by means of this law, and also said that, apart from the Government's proposal for amendments and additions to this law, the Government also proposed that the National Assembly prepare a consolidated text of the law. Following the introduction of Dr Györkös, there was no discussion, which is likely to talk about the expertise of the preparation and work of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendments, which is why the amendments were adopted, included in the basic proposal of the law and such an amended proposal of the law gives the Committee for Economic Affairs to the National Assembly for further consideration or adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by Lojze Posedel on behalf of the Zares Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister! In the Parliamentary Group, we really intend to complement the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Business on the Market. We estimate that the adoption of this law will contribute to greater legal certainty and clarity of regulation. As in the introduction, the Minister has already explained the main changes, and in the Group of Members, we are also assessing that this amendment will remove certain uncertainties that have emerged in the implementation of the law itself, since the law defines the area covered by it in more detail, and it will also be clearer between the application of certain different laws and henceforth the relationship between the application of this law and the consumer protection law. The powers of decision-making of individual administrative authorities and courts are also more clearly regulated. Infringement of the provisions of this Act will also be improved, as the newly defined fines will ensure greater efficiency and dissuasive purpose of punishment, in accordance with the possibilities offered by legislation. It is a law on offences, as well as a law on companies. With all these improvements, the bill of major substantive changes does not bring, except for the amendment of the Law on State Administration, where the competence of the Ministry, on a case-by-case basis, for electronic communications is to be regulated, instead of the competent Ministry of Economy so far. Also in the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that all amendments tabled and dealt with and adopted by the Committee on the Economy are 10. 9. Good, they are improving the proposal for a law, so our Group of Members will also support this complementary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you, President. A few words more briefly about how we think about this bill in our Member State. To introduce, we consider that there are changes that are quite professional and not of a political nature, which also speaks of the fact that the law has indeed been professionally prepared on the basis of the comments of the professional institutions, that the expert opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have been taken into account and that such, therefore, are professional amendments. That is why there was no debate, no controversy, and the amendments were included in the basic text. It is not a matter of any major substantive change; it is not that this law would be in any dramatic conflict with the directive governing it; it is that the area of electronic communications is governed by different laws; it is both the consumer protection law and the law on electronic signature, the law on electronic communications and so on, and it all meant a few confusions, including because they were vaguely divided powers. Not only have they been listed in various laws, but they have intertwined not sufficiently clearly the competence of the courts and the individual administrative authorities of our country. It is therefore a matter of solutions within the framework of the Directive and in order to achieve greater clarity of the text, in order to clarify the powers between the court and individual administrative authorities, in order to clarify the obligations of the provider of these services to consumers, either to natural persons or to businesses. This is a matter of greater public demand for data, for those who need to be published, and it is this - this should be stressed - that only the conditions of commercial nature are regulated. Nothing else that is not commercial in nature is governed by this law. It may be important to mention both principles. One is the principle of proportionality, which we find then implemented in different sanctions for different economic operators, so that sanctions are for micro-enterprises and for s.p. suppliers other than those we have under the terms of the GHS, medium and large enterprises. It is also a matter of different sanctioning those who are either creators of information, either that the information is only stored, or that it is only hosts of information created by others. The principle of legal certainty was also mentioned. It is the fact that such communication is, of course, increasing, that the expansion of this activity also opens up opportunities for offences, including abuses and crimes, and that these changes are also intended for greater protection of the consumer. Both the provider-consumer relationship and the company-business relationship are regulated. In the DeSUS Group, we feel that the solutions are good, so we will also support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian National Party, in the parliamentary group, we feel that this e-commerce law is good on the market and we will also support it. The fact is, it deals with some things that we fear will not remain at this level. We fear in particular that it will happen that they will selectively violate Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of freedom of expression. It reads: "Freedom of expression of thought, speech and public appearance, press and other forms of public information and expression is guaranteed. Anyone can freely choose, receive and disseminate conscience and opinions. Everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature which has a legitimate legal interest in the law, except in cases provided for by law. "The first paragraph of this 39th front is accurate, clear, indicative. However, we fear that it will happen that some will be forbidden to speak as they think, for as it is, for example, it has already happened when the 69th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says, "A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, that the Chairman should speak as soon as he requests it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than three minutes." In short, whatever you want to talk about procedural matters, you have to let them go to the end. Although Article 76 speaks: "For a violation of the rules of procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Presidents may state the following measures " [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u19	Comrade Jelinčič, this has nothing to do with the law. Are we at another session, at another point, but how? Please refer to the position of the Group of Members regarding the law under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u20	Mr President, I think I have a right to say. I'm just reading that I have the right to say it, and you're violating this right again. Then there's no reason we're talking about anything here. Then why do you even ask Members of other Members of the Parliament what their opinion is if you do not allow them to give their opinion if you take the floor, if you deny them their constitutional right, if you violate at least four articles of your own Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 76, 77 and 78? Then why are we sitting in the National Assembly more than one party or maybe two?Oh, my God! Then why do we have a multi-party system?Oh, my God! Why did we change the former system and why we left Yugoslavia if we now force back, both in a territorial principle, in which we are driven by Pahor and the current government, into the arms of Croatia, as well as in a mental and political principle, when you do not allow us to express our own opinions! Mr President, I no longer understand this National Assembly. What became this national assembly, back to the congregation? When the government says what it wants, all we have to do is press the "yes" button and don't let anyone press the "no" button because there's some uniforms waiting for him outside and taking him to some hearings. I think that democracy in Slovenia is at a terrible turning point. It seems that you will end it, you want to end it, because you can't say a little bit more about the law here in a simple debate about the law. And yet there is talk of electronic commerce, about what information will be sent here by email or via the Internet, and there, up and down, who will dare, who will not be allowed. Now, I am not allowed to use the marriage party of the National Assembly, which reads "Conversation of the National Assembly, Officially Cleared Text", so I must not base these matters. And I'm not even supposed to use the Constitution! Is this constitution written for us or written for the chosen ones? Then write that this is allowed only to coalition gentlemen. The rest of you have to be quiet. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Where are we going? [[...]] I mean, it's horrible what's going on here! It's worse every day. From day to day there's a major violation, an eccentric violation of human rights in here! But you're going to make excuses for Europe. Go look at Europe! It's worse here than in Afghanistan. They're just shooting outside no, that's the only difference! But the total dispersion of the country is just like in Afghanistan. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The fact that you were able to say all this to the end is a sign of democracy. You can say that here, but there was another point and another meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u22	Good afternoon. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the 4th point currently under consideration, the Law on changes and additions to electronic commerce on the market, I can say, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, immediately in the beginning, that we will support a proposal for amendments and additions which does not interfere substantially with the content of the law in the SLS Group. We see no reason for a different vote. We see that the main reasons have already been clarified, especially in the findings and comments of the market inspectorate of Slovenia, and that the legislator wants to do what has been done during the implementation of this legislation and during the rapid development of the Internet, electronic commerce has shown that it is necessary to do so. This will support this law on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. We are also pleased that the internet and e-business in Slovenia are spreading so rapidly that they spread as they spread. We are also pleased that this area, even in our opinion, is well regulated in Slovenia and that even in the area of European funds drawback, a significant part of the funds is also intended for broadband connections in those remote areas where market providers would find it very difficult to find interest and the Slovenian countryside would be left without these modern links to the 21st century infrastructure. On our part, too, recognition of the work done by those who have done so far at the Ministry of the Economy, we also want to continue to work successfully within the new ministry. On our part, support for amending the law and supplementing the law on electronic commerce on the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Good day to all of you. Greetings to the Minister, and thank the President for his statement. The law, which solves normal life problems and problems, is a good law and such laws in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support, as this law on changes and additions to the law on electronic commerce is one such. Not long ago, I would say that electronic commerce is something far away, something that will take place in the future. In recent decades, however, we have witnessed rapid and accelerated developments in electronic commerce. The Act, which is subject to amendments today, deals with electronic commerce in connection with the conclusion of electronic contracts, the provision of information society services, the publication of commercial communications and the related responsibilities of intermediaries, out-of-court resolution of disputes, judicial protection and so on. We have adopted such a law for the first time in 2006 as a transposition of the European Directive. The law did not intervene lightly until 2008 with the Arbitration Act, when the Law on Electronic Business was slightly amended. After three years of implementation of the Law on Practice, however, certain uncertainties have been identified that require a more specific definition. Most of the comments were made by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, who oversees the implementation of the provisions. Since these ambiguities make work difficult, it is only right that we better define the law and eliminate all ambiguities from the outside. The main novelties of the law thus justify that the law in question governs only commercial relations between information society service providers and recipients of services. We also find it important to note that a diction is added that an electronic service provider must provide the required information on its websites. We are all subject to "spam" or, Slovenianly speaking, unwanted mail. Since this area is governed by a number of laws, we will make it more clear that even in the case of unwanted mail, the provisions of the e-commerce law apply under the consumer protection law. At the LDS, we always advocate an effective legal state, which also works and especially in practice, not just on paper, in practice. Therefore, by amending the law, we will simplify the rules on measures introduced by the court in the event of infringements. As it is written, this will make legal regulation clearer and certainly more predictable. A major change will also be introduced in the area of offences where different levels of fines are introduced, depending on the size of the company and the legal nature of the company, the difference is whether it is an economic company or an independent entrepreneur. This certainly introduces fair punishment, if necessary and if it comes to it, as larger companies must also bear greater responsibility for infringements that bring more income to them. One of our main programme objectives in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is certainly an orderly and effective rule of law, so we are also working directly in this direction. Therefore, on this basis, and on the basis of everything I have said in this position, we will be complemented by a proposal for an e-commerce law, which will certainly be more regulated, more transparent, more efficient, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Business on the Market introduces in 2006 the adoption of a law some solutions which have proved necessary in practice. As it is said, there has been a need for a clearer and more comprehensible law for the market inspectorate carrying out the inspection of the law and for the Ministry of the Interior. The main solutions to the law - such as the obligation to publish the company's data to the service provider and to allow links to these data on the provider's website; a clearer definition of spam-mail - so that it is in accordance with the consumer protection law; the obligation of service providers to report information on the recipients of the service to the competent authorities, in particular with a view to making it easier to detect offences arising from electronic commerce; the limitation of jurisdiction, suspension or prevention of infringements only to the court and other changes - will ensure clarity in the production of the law in practice and will therefore be supported by the Social Democrats' proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Marjan Bezjak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u28	Hello, Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State, everyone else present. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Electronics Act, Directive 2000/31 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce in the internal market. The Directive on electronic commerce was first transposed into the Slovenian legal order by means of a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act and the Law on Electronic Commerce and Electronic Signature. The first was to transpose the provisions on the conclusion of contracts, the obligation to notify and send commercial communications into Slovenia and the second specifically regulated the responsibilities of indirect service providers. However, certain e-commerce issues were later resolved by the e-commerce law on the market, as it turned out that a specific law was needed for these issues or requirements of the European Directive. The aim and purpose of this amendment is also, according to the proposaler, an appropriate transposition of the e-commerce directive into the Slovenian legal order, because this has not been ensured by the regulation and implementation of the e-commerce and electronic regulations law and consumer protection law. The main drawback was that the Directive also applies to electronic transactions between non-consumer parties. The aim of the bill is also, according to the proposaler, to record individual provisions of the law in a way that is clearer and more understandable, that there will be no doubt as to which body is competent in individual cases to act and that some minor non-individual errors will be corrected. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONVEINATE THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT LOCAL GOVERNMENT LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Dr. Luke Yuri. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law, Dr. Luke Yuri, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much and very much. The proposal for amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government touches on two topics, and we can both combine, under the title of the unresolved or poorly resolved definitions of local democracy. On the one hand, by means of a change, we want to tackle the issue of the resignations of political officials at the local level or the mayor and municipal councillors more efficiently, more elegantly and more transparently, as well as the confirmation of the mandate of potential successors of these outgoing officials. On the other hand, we want to save one of the shames of local self-government in Slovenia, and this is a failure to respect the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court by one of the Slovenian municipalities in rejecting the elections and, of course, the election of the Roma Councilman, as is the case with legislation based on constitutional provisions. The first case also refers to a few concrete events that we have witnessed in the last year and a half. In the Municipality of Koper, about a year and a half ago, two municipal councillors resigned, regardless of both the administration of the municipality and the municipal council in the year and a half, and refused to consider the withdrawal of a statement, for which there was even such an absurd position that one of these two councillors who resigned, while in the alternative elections he ran for the municipal council in Izola, was elected there and was the only municipal councillor in the history of independent Slovenia, who was a municipal councillor at the same time in two municipalities, in Cyprus and in Izola. Then there were, unfortunately, judicial complications, as it was not possible to reach a logical decision on the finding of a derogation. These two councillors were now required by the Supreme Court to issue a decision on the termination of their term of office. Now, however, the matter continues with difficulties in confirming the mandates of the two new saints to be replaced by this Councillor. On the other hand, the story of the Municipality of Grosuplje, which has been ignoring state legislation for many years and has been rejecting the possibility arising from legislation and this legislation stems from constitutionally guaranteed rights, to conduct elections for a Roma councillor and to allow the elected Roma councillor to participate equally in the municipal world. The Constitutional Court had to intervene in this regard. As you know, it has decided in favour of the need to make these elections possible and to allow elections, but nevertheless the municipality of Grosuplje is still ignoring even the Constitutional Court, for which the provisions of the Local Self-Government Act would make it possible even the dissolution of the municipal council. However, since the dissolution of the municipal council is the most extreme case of interference by the state authorities with local self-government and since the theoretical possibility of a more elegant, faster and even less inclusive, less interventional solution has been shown, we have decided to propose such a solution to the National Assembly. This means that in the event that it is adopted, the State Election Commission, instead of the Municipal Election Commission of Grosuplje, will hold elections for the Roma Councillor and thus, after many years, will solve a problem that is not proud of Slovenian local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Renata Brunskole, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its meeting on 9 September 2009, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was sent to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Luka Yuri. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the amendments of the Government, the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS, LDS and the amendments of the SDS Group. The Committee took note of the opinions of individual municipalities sent to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At a meeting of the committee, the bill's proposer further explained that he wanted to address two issues that remained unresolved in the Local Self-Government Act. In the debate just before me, the applicant reiterated this matter. So the first is related to the procedures for the resignation of the municipal councilman and the mayor, because the regulation of this issue so far allows for the possibility of abuse and manipulation. The second relates to the regulation of the issue of Roma councillors, as some congregations have not adequately resolved this issue. He also highlighted several possibilities for State intervention in this case; one of them was the dissolution of the municipal council and the mayor in the event of repeated illegality in a particular municipality. However, the law proposes a quicker and more effective solution, as mentioned above, in those municipalities that will not run the elections of the Roma Councillor in accordance with the law, this task may be taken over by the National Election Commission at the expense of the municipality and carried out the elections in the same way as the municipal electoral commission. The representative of the Government also considered that the bill included solutions that would, on the one hand, simplify procedures when derogations were made and, on the other hand, prevent violations of fundamental constitutional rights, including passive electoral rights. The government has also supported a solution concerning the non-election of Roma representatives to the municipal council, given that the current legal provision allows for sanctions that are disproportionate to the problem. After examining the bill, the government also tabled its amendments, which did not substantially change the proposed solutions, but mainly contributed to clearer dictions, and the Committee also supported them. At the meeting of the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service specifically drew attention to the problem of measuring decision-making as set out in Article 1 of this proposal, which should be justified by the proposer in view of the fact that it was an exception. She gave two arguments for an exception. The first is the nature of the dispute, in which case it is an electoral and mandate dispute requiring an early decision on the rights and obligations, not only the annulment, but the second that it is not a typical decision on the administrative act, but rather the failure of the municipal council body, which makes it impossible for an individual to exercise his or her rights and therefore has to replace an administrative decision. The Legislative and Legal Service has also proposed the harmonisation of the provisions of Article 1 and Article 2 of the draft law, and has specifically highlighted Article 4 of the bill which guarantees the right of a representative of the Roma communities. This is a question relating to Article 101a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which is an article which is both systematic and subject to a transitional provision which has been time-bound and is exhausted but is not fully implemented in practice. It is therefore important that the proposed new provision in Article 101a provides for the transitional arrangements to become permanent, since the text refers to the call for regular local elections on a regular basis, i.e. to a permanent regime. It is therefore legally appropriate for this matter to be settled in the material part of the law. The discussion at the meeting of the Committee has focused in particular on Article 3 of the proposal for a law proposing the deletion of Article 39, paragraph 6. On the basis of the following, on the basis of further warnings and in the decision on amendments, the Committee followed the implementation of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which provided that the right to a representative of the Roma Community must be effectively exercised, and is in no way inconsistent with the Constitution, provided that the legislator alone determines and designates the municipalities which are required to provide the representative of the Roma Community in the municipal council. We propose to the National Assembly to support the text of the amended bill and the amendments tabled to it following the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Meta Vese Valentinčič, State Secretary, Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government is aware of a problem that arises in municipalities where the right of a member of the municipal council or mayor to resign is not respected. It is a statement of will by which a person decides to end his term of office prematurely, for the early termination of the mandate, which the electorates have given him and entrusted him with. However, this is an individual's right and it is happening, as has already been stated, that either the municipal council does not decide on this request or decides so that it simply does not recognise this right to an individual. We agree that the way now defined in the proposal also protects the passive electoral rights of the one who, after the election results, is the one who can assume the mandate of the municipal councilor. That is how we strongly support this solution, and we think it is absolutely necessary. With regard to the solution to allow for the provision of a Roma representative in a congregation where the election of this representative is not carried out alone, we feel equally necessary in view of the developments that have been taking place since 2002, but we are still at the point when this right is not realized in the congregation that we have already heard about. The question is that where there is an indigenous Roma community, Roma have the right to at least one representative in the municipal world, and if this municipality does not guarantee it, it is indisputably a grave violation of these collective rights of the Roma community to special political participation in the municipal world. The Government thus supports the addition and the solution which gives the State Election Commission the power in this case to conduct the elections of the representative of the Roma community if this representation in the municipal council does not provide the municipality itself at the time of the call for regular local elections. Let me finish. The Government supports the bill with all the amendments adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The opinion of the DeSUS Group on the amendment and amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government is as follows. Given that the amendment is proposed by three Members, including our Member, Willi Rezman, it is analogous to conclude and understand that the DeSUS Group will support this novel in both parts. It seems very reasonable to us - the first part concerning the simplification of the procedure for the discharge of mayors, either a parishioner or a saint, if it wishes earlier, to terminate the term in its organs prematurely. A number of cases have already been mentioned today, because of this anomaly in the Local Self-Government Act, there have been major complications in the Slovenian space. Thus it is in Cyprus, so it is in Prevalje, so it is likely that this procedure is simplified and that it is not possible for the congregation council to either put the proposal of each individual in a drawer, not to put it into treatment or to put it into treatment and not accept it. So it is the right of each individual to decide that his mandate may also end prematurely. We certainly support that. We also support the second content of this novel, which concerns the fulfilment of the definition of the Local Self-Government Act, where it says that everywhere where there is an indigenous Roma population, the municipality has the responsibility to provide one representative to the municipal council, in elections. This provision has been violated in many cases also in our municipalities, and it is right to correct this in the sense that if the municipality provides a representative of the Roma community where the indigenous population is located, then the State Election Commission has the right and authority to conduct the elections. Of course, in this case we have a completely uniform view that the Municipality of Grosuplje cannot be an exception. We expect, and we hope, that this amendment will be adopted, that elections in the Municipality of Grosuplje will also be held within three months and that this will be ensured by the Law on Local Self-Government, that the representative is equally involved in this political aspect in the composition of the municipal council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the law in our parliamentary group. It does not regulate one matter which this law should regulate first and always and everywhere, in short, the issue of elections in local communities. There are still preferred lists vis-à-vis political parties, which is a lack of consistency with the Constitution. It is not an equal treatment, but it is the preference of certain papers, certain groups, which are grouped into 15, to sign and then to take a certain position in the municipal councils. We also wonder why it is only about the rights of the Roma community. Why aren't we talking about Sint's rights? Or fix it and say we should talk about the rights of the Gypsy community. That's what Roma, Sinti and three other groups are inside. Of course, there's something we need to know, something we don't have. It's about constitutional rights, in here, the Roma community. Article 65 of the Constitution states: "The position and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law." This is said to be not constitutional rights, but legal rights or even special rights. Now let us ask ourselves, given the European legislation allowing everyone who comes within the EU to a particular country and applies there to reside, he has the right to participate in elections, both with passive and active electoral rights, which means he can vote and be elected. Take the case that happens in Trebnje. The gypsy community expanded in Trebnje endlessly with the arrival of Romanian and Bulgarian gypsies. These people are now living there, which means that if they apply, they will have an active and passive election right, saying in this law that this community must have at least one representative. In view of their number, we can count on 5 of them in the congregational world of Trebnje or in some other. There's nothing to be said about autonomy, because gentlemen don't know the law, despite the sound of academic titles, what autonomy is. They do not know history and do not know that most Gypsies came to Slovenia after 1954 by building barracks of the Yugoslav People's Army. And that's where they settled at the barracks. I'm not going to talk about why they were, but whoever was in the army in the former Yugoslavia, in the south, knows what, was there, and why it was there at the barracks. Another incomprehensible matter is within this law, namely that the State Election Commission will take over the task of people and run elections on behalf of them. I think that all the autocratic regimes in the world will applaud this law, because the fact that some state institution assumes the role of people, those who make up a country, those to whom the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia applies, if any, is, as it appears, one without connection, a booklet that we can place under a closet if the leg is too low or something like that, it means nothing. Gentlemen, how do you feel about all of this?Oh, my God! Have you changed your mind about this law?Oh, my God! You haven't thought about anything. But you know, the coalition is strong enough to accept that. We're gonna crash, we're gonna go bulldozer. It doesn't matter what happens. And what happens next, I can tell you. In the shortest time, we will have the demands of Croats - especially Bosniaks - especially Bosnians - especially, Serbs - especially, Montenegrins - especially, Macedonians - who will be able to demand their representatives on the same basis. First in the local community and then on the national level. For their self-loathing [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It is also based on years after 1945, which is even earlier than 1954. [[...]] So, gentlemen, such nonsense, because I'm used to it, but this one's too severe.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u39	Procedurally, Mr. Yuri. Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u40	Yes, Mr. President. I call on this esteemed assembly as well as you to allow a debate without elements of an enemy speech. The Constitution clearly defines the Roma community by the name of the Roma community. When the word Gypsies is constantly used here, of course, it is in terms of hate speech. We're supposed to stop this, please, at least in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I have a lot of correspondence with the head of the SNS Group on this. I did not prevent him from presenting his views, as was generally the case with no one. But you could say that each one with his own ID card, but not the plastic one that he has in his wallet, a little different, a little deeper and a little more, I would say, important. With this, each person presented his or her identity card. Thank you so much for the heads-up. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u42	Nice greeting, distinguished president, respected secretary of state, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, which we are dealing with today, deals with two matters which the legislator did not foresee when he was writing laws. And even in practice, it turns out that he keeps that saying that human stupidity sometimes has no limits. Matters that are taking place in such a way that those who have the right to be elected, that they also have the right to renounce this mandate, seem perfectly normal. Our legal order predicted that this would be confirmed by the municipal councils and that paradoxical matters would actually happen, that then the municipal councils would not confirm this, that they would not confirm this derogation, and thus prevent the city in the municipal world. Therefore, we believe that this regulation, which is the first one proposed by the motioners in this law, is a regulation regulating an anomaly that is probably not necessary to be regulated by law. Clearly, however, the practice has shown that this must be done and that is why we support it. We also think that, on the second issue, this is the right of the Roma community to saints in the municipal world, a particular debate has developed in the Slovenian political space, a debate which we feel is unnecessary, which is not going in the right direction, in the direction of regulating relations in some way, including the approximation of the living conditions of this Roma community to the other inhabitants and residents. All too often, the right to be elected speaks only of justice. It is not said that it is also the responsibility to carry out your work at the same time and that you, as a responsible representative of this Roma community, also transmit certain messages among your population. I come from an environment where we have also met to consider twice in the municipal council the resignation of the Councilman, secondly confirmed and allowed for alternative elections. However, in the case of the representation of the Roma community in the municipal world, I think that the basic problem is the wrong understanding, including the responsibilities of the municipalities and the state in this area. I always represent the view that the congregations in which this population resides, which we want to turn from nomadic to that which will have its home, is its home number, and I think that in some environments this is also very successful, that there is a basic task actually in the congregation in which it resides, and there is a need to agree on how this stay should be arranged. Surely it is easier to arrange if you also have a legitimately chosen Romani councilman as an associate, you have a person to talk to, and who in some ways also helps you if the congregation’s will is also in regulating these situations. I also think that, many times, the very legitimate expectation of municipalities dealing with these problems, that, on the other hand, the state also provides conditions, because in this positive discrimination introduced for this ethnic group, it is very problematic if the financial burden of these solutions is passed on to the municipalities and then on to the multitude of projects needed in the congregation, too often, that these programmes are not implemented. I think that such a solution is right, even in the Group of Members, we will support both solutions, including those that concern only the Municipality of Grosuplje, because we think that those who have a serious intention to have a solution to this problem have a case of good practice can support such a solution. Otherwise, it is a very interesting topic for political accounts, which, even in my deep conviction, is not in our honour, nor in the country in which we live, and I think it is through the instrument of the elected saint, through the instrument of responsibility it carries behind us, also an opportunity to tell this population many times what their responsibilities are. But it is also necessary to attach to what people always warn us, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that this is a population that knows very well and is also taught about its rights, and that all too often forgets its responsibility. [[...]] I myself am thinking of the instrument of the municipal councilor, including the instrument by which this sense of responsibility is transferred to their population.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, everyone! In the Chamber of Liberal Democrats, we are familiar with the issue in municipalities where problems have arisen due to non-compliance with the law regarding the right of a member of the municipal council, the mayor or the mayor as a member of the municipal council to resign. The problem is broader than it seems at first sight. The elected official shall obtain a mandate by means of a confirmation or finding on the municipal council and shall exercise it for a rule of four years. However, during the term of office, it may be terminated prematurely for the reasons set out in Article 37a of the Law on Local Self-Government. One of these reasons is the derogation, which differs from all other reasons for the early termination of the mandate by stating the will of an individual who no longer wishes to perform the functions entrusted to him by the electorate. In practice, it is known that, due to the political interests of the council, we do not accept the resignation of each official, as shown in two ways: whether the proposal for a final decision on the early termination of the term of office is not included in the meeting of the municipal council or whether the members of the municipal council do not accept it. We also support the solution to allow, by supplementing the Local Self-Government Act, the provision of a Roma representative in a municipality where the election of this representative is not carried out alone. The provision of a law on local self-government by which Roma have not been fully implemented in areas where the indigenous Roma community lives in the municipal council of at least one representative has not been fully implemented since 2002, despite numerous warnings from state authorities and the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. All municipalities, except the municipality of Grosuplje, have implemented the legal provision or decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In his annual reports, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia also warned the municipality that it was a grave violation of the collective rights of the Roma community to special political participation in the municipal world. Despite calls for an office in 2009, the municipal council of the Municipality of Grosuplje has not yet adopted the statute of the municipality and the representation of the Roma community in the municipal world remains unresolved. The Government and state authorities have thus exhausted all possibilities for achieving voluntary enforcement, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. So we came into a situation where we were forced to look for different solutions if, as representatives of the legislative branch of government, we want the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to be respected. We support the Law on Local Self-Government in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This time, too, we can see that it is impossible to establish an individual legal system, to foresee in writing an individual law all the complications that we can face later in the application and implementation of this law in practice. It is illogical, but it is possible for the congregation council to give up, but the congregation council does not respect his will. Moreover, we have the case of an individual who is a member of two congregational councils because he is not freed from one and is chosen in the other. Moreover, it is unacceptable that the municipal council itself can determine the power ratio of the secular groups, irrespective of the previous election results. There is also a worrying lack of respect for the law, which states that Roma have at least one representative in areas where the indigenous Roma community lives. The councillor’s resignation procedure is simplified by this proposal in such a way that the municipal council’s finding is neither necessary nor necessary. It is sufficient to inform the mayor of his resignation and he is obliged to inform the municipal council and the municipal electoral commission of his resignation. It could well have happened that at this point we would have estimated that this was sufficient and that the law was clear. Unfortunately, however, in the Group of Social Democrats, we feel that this is not necessarily the case. What if the mayor does not notify the municipal election commission and the municipal council? Therefore, the motions for amendments to this Act have also written down judicial proceedings. And at this point, we estimate that it will be a large enough guardian, a legal guardian who will allow the saint to decide to resign for various reasons, so that he may also resign. And that the authority responsible shall take this into account and then the procedures of the alternate member of the municipal council shall be carried out. With the amendment that we are considering today, we will also ensure that representatives of the Roma community in certain municipalities will receive their representative: a saint or a saint. However, by adopting the amendment of the coalition, this deadline is reduced. At first, it was thought after the following local elections. With the amendment, we shorten this deadline and impose on the competent to run the elections. On the contrary, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is now attempting to continue its current practice in order to propose the removal of the municipality from the list of those who are obliged to elect a representative or representative of the Roma community, if this local community does not meet the conditions set out, namely the autonomy of the Roma community. We will not support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, but we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Milan Čadež has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! In the SDS Group of Members, we oppose such an arrangement. However, we are not opposed to the first part where the proposed solution and discharge of municipal officials are regulated in the right way. We note that the proposaler and the ruling coalition want to amend the Law on Local Self-Government only so that, through the help of the State Election Commission, they can elect a Roma councillor in the Municipality of Grosuplje. However, the costs of the elections they intend to carry out some six months before the regular local elections will unfortunately have to be borne by the Grosuplje municipality itself. In the SDS Group, we find such an arrangement pointless. Above all, in today's situation, it is extremely irresponsible, since the drafter has not tied the provision to regular local elections on a regular basis, and such conduct is an incomprehensible spread of taxpayer money. The proposaler and the ruling coalition have also forgotten the basic decision of the Constitutional Court, which ordered the legislator to set clear criteria on the basis of which the municipalities can determine for themselves whether there is an indigenous Roma community in their territory. The legislator should also assess whether other criteria, e.g. organisation, number of members and the like, should be laid down, rather than by the current Government, in order to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and to establish clear criteria on the basis of which municipalities would determine the possible indigenous settlement of the Roma minority, as the amendment of the Local Self-Government Act simply sets out 20 municipalities that are obliged to amend their statutes and provide a seat for the representative of the Roma Community. Without the criteria of autonomy, however, we can theoretically go to an absurd situation in order for Roma to go to another congregation in accordance with their traditional way of life, and the law would require the first congregation to provide a Roma councillor, even though the Roma are no longer in the congregation. This also raises the question of why other municipalities, such as Ljubljana, do not have a Roma councillor, although according to the available data, there are almost 2 000 Roma living. Autochtons must be at least as much as the ones they have in Grosuplje. We stress that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not refer to the autonomous right of the Roma community, but only to the Italian and Hungarian national communities. The bill provides for the election of a Romani councillor on the basis of law, regardless of the statute of the congregation and regardless of the availability of the municipal council. In our opinion, such a decision also constitutes a kind of intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed powers of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u50	A nice greeting to all present and thank you for your word! The proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government are necessary because of the poor practice of not saying abuse of existing legislation, both in view of the lack of respect for the rights of Roma to their representatives in municipal councils in certain municipalities and in view of the manipulation of the termination of the mandates of municipal officials. The reasons for the proposed amendments to the Local Self-Government Act raise one of the fundamental problems in the field of local self-government, namely the lack of adequate and inefficient supervision in the field of local self-government, which poses a serious threat to the fundamental rights of citizens in this area and thus only the quality of local self-government. Although the proposed changes relate to a relatively narrow part of the issue, we will support them in our parliamentary group, including the amendment of coalition groups. However, we are convinced that, at the end of its fourth mandate, local self-government needs serious consideration and, as a result, appropriate legislative changes are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24 July. 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment, proposed under Article 3, to delete the word "Grosuplje" from the list of municipalities, follows from the simple fact that the criterion of autonomy is not defined. The proposaler, who said it was one of the criteria of autonomy, doesn't explain it anywhere. For this reason, we believe that from the same explanation that we have given -, in explanation of our amendment, we have written nicely that there is a small and non-homogeneous Roma community in the village of Grosuplje. We believe that the Roma community in the area of the present municipality of Grosuplje does not live long enough to meet the criteria of autonomy. The applicant would make the picture most clear and clear if this criterion of autonomy in the law were to be defined. I think this would give us a completely transparent and transparent picture. Now we can interpret the criteria of autonomy as we would like, arbitrarily, as this set of congregations with a Romani saint came into the article of the Law on Local Self-Government. For the same reason we could then ask why not Ljubljana, why not Koper, why not Metlika, why not Velenje, Slovenia Gradec. It's just that if we define criteria, then we have to specify them. The proposer certainly knows why, so it can also write this completely easily in an article of the law. The representative of the Government also referred to the criterion of autonomy, but did not explain it. And that's too bad. And that's a major flaw. Therefore, we believe that this amendment of ours, as it is, is more than justifiable. Then all of that dilemma is eliminated, if this word is deleted, so I attach myself to it, then there is no need for further procedures on the elections and all of that, and it's gone. However, if I refer to a proposaler who says that this solution, as proposed, is better than the fact that the municipal council is being dissolved, which the Law on Local Self-Government makes possible, I really don't understand. In the end, voters decide in the congregation who will be entrusted with their vote. And therefore, if something is not respected, then why does not the congregation’s world be dissolved, with all justice. In fact, by doing so, we will give the electorate in the congregation a decision whether they want such a municipal council or not. And in the new elections, they decide who they trust with their voice. We're just here -- no, I don't understand. Personally, I think the dissolution of the municipal council and the re-election would be a better solution than what you are now proposing. You're proposing an invasion of local self-government. This is an intervention into local self-government. If we look from a systemic point of view, we do nothing but turn the congregation into a regular municipal unit with the manager. That's what we're gonna do. Let anyone, if judged, then let the municipal council, for failing to respect the constitution, laws, dissolve and then let the electorate decide. The Council of Europe Charter on Local Self-Government estimates that one of the extremely democratic instruments is the protection of local self-government. But here's where the opposite happens. But here we are interfering with the local government and not from the point of view of the country of the disobedient congregation, sorry, we do not allow them to make their own decisions. Why the fear? Why are you so scared? But mostly. In addition to listing congregations, why is it not listed? What's so hard about this? Why is it so hard to write what a criterion of autonomy is? That's what the article says. But in addition to being indigenous, I am sure that this decision on autonomy could be left to the congregations. To determine for himself whether the indigenous Roma community lives there. I think there are other criteria that still decide: organisation, number of members and so on. I mean, and this proposal for marriage is bad because of two things. In view of the arbitral interference, the municipalities which must have Roma saints are again arbitrarily listed, instead of looking from a systemic point of view and setting criteria. And if these criteria were to be recorded in the law, they would have been legally appointed for all 210 congregations, so to speak, and they would have found: For example, the congregation of Grosuplje must have a Romani saint, but not Metlik. And that would be the right thing to do. But no. Arbitral. And second. I think it's a serious intervention into local government. We don't trust voters in individual congregations. We do not trust them so much if we find here that, in accordance with the law on local self-government, the municipal council does not respect the statute of law, it is dissolved, and new elections are held. Especially if we move on now. Look, the local elections are next year. And here, with this, I don't understand why it has to be so fast, because the elections of the Roma Councilman, if this is to be voted, will be six months before the local elections. Unnecessary costs. Then why not at least with regular elections, which will be in six months anyway. Why the pressure? There's no reason, just extra costs. Of course, let's load them up to the local community. That's great. I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Introductoryly, I'd like to highlight two. Above all, it seems to me that as the National Assembly we must respect legality, we must also take into account the provisions of the Constitutional Court. This is some kind of starting point that should apply in this case as well. The other thing I would like to stress is that unfortunately we have recently found that in the area of minority issues in general there is a certain intolerance that is deemed unnecessary, as it stirs up some tension that is damaging to the whole of society and, above all, at the local level. From this context, I also approach this issue or take these aspects into account when deciding, these broad aspects of the minority issue. As I have said several times, even at a meeting of the competent committee, I understand the dilemma of some local and also political actors, as well as individuals, regarding the legal status of the Roma community in a particular environment, even when it comes to the specific issue of the local representation of the Roma community. This is a specificity which, on the basis of the current constitutional and legal provisions, cannot be fully resolved in accordance with the principle applicable to the other two indigenous communities, in which autonomy based on historical and territorial principles is unequivocal. Nevertheless, we must be aware that the autonomy in the case of the Roma community needs to be understood somewhat differently, with a broader dimension than there are a number of examples for today, including in some other European countries, perhaps quite diverse, of course in those where Roma communities are present. Of these particulars, there is no doubt, and I would like to stress this, the kind of way of life of the community in question, in particular as regards a permanent place of residence that can be enjoyed by others, but not by others, it is traditional. From this point of view, this question is very important to my mind. Various interpretations may be understandable, but the basic principle that the said constitutional community is defined as an ethnic community which, due to its specificities and small numbers, must be given positive discrimination, at least in my opinion, cannot be disputed. If we are looking at or looking at this issue more broadly, especially with regard to the representation of the local community, we may also be able to think about the matter by addressing this issue in this specific so-called umbrella Law on the Roma Community. On the other hand, it is true that we cannot solve all specific issues from the point of view of sectoral legislation in the above-mentioned bill. Let me get this straight. I would like to point out that, above all, in terms of the broad scope of this issue, I support the amendment of the coalition parties in this case. Undoubtedly, we cannot ideally solve this problem, but it is somewhere closer to the general principle of ensuring the Roma community's representation at local level. But perhaps, as I have pointed out earlier, it would suggest thinking in a slightly more loose form when we talk about autonomy in a particular environment, because there can actually be some changes here. But at this point, I think that this solution, which is proposed by coalition parties, is best among those who are in judgment, so I will support this proposal or content under the second paragraph of Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment of the SDS Group, but I will support the second point, or the second amendment, which is a coalition one, simply for reasons that can be understood in the performance by my colleague Verlic. I think that this performance was an exceptional case or attempt to relativize certain facts in a dangerous way. When we begin to question the autonomy of a community, such as the Roma community, which is listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as one of the three recognised indigenous communities, Italy and Hungary have specific conditions that are historically bound to some territory, so they also have a special article. However, the Roma community is offered a solution to the legal exercise of rights. However, it is clear from the Roma community that it is one of those ethnic and cultural groups which, like Kurds and some other communities, do not have and have never had the opportunity to establish their own country. For this reason, the autonomy of the Roma is a concept which binds not only to Slovenia, but to all countries where this ethnic community resides. Roma are indigenous anywhere in Europe. They're indigenous also outside Europe. They are a community with a specific culture and tradition, which has already changed some traditional patterns in Slovenia and become indigenous in the classical sense of the word. Especially in some Slovenian regions, it is not a nomadic community, nor a complete one, but it is a permanent, stable community that is part of our nation and which also expects proper respect for its cultural specificities. The Law on Local Self-Government provides, in part, this commitment under the Constitution, along with some other laws, the possibility for the Roma community to fully implement and exercise the rights and duties arising from co-management of its own identity and territory, where a particular community resides, through the presence in certain municipal councils. The fact that there is a law with a list of municipalities where this community is considered to be present is not a fact arising from some superficial assessments. This is a list based on the findings that are listed and also very broken down in all studies, in all analyses of competent professional institutions, not politicians. Who are we to say whether this is more or less an autochthon, or this ethnic right to be expressed somewhere, but not elsewhere. No, we express some political views here. I understand that my colleague Verlich is responding to his electoral body and is thus trying to prevent something that would strike him with political points in his electorate. But this cannot be the criteria for addressing minority rights and the rights of a cultural community. We need to stick to some of the facts that are better known by experts who deal with it in this way every day. I therefore recommend that colleagues from the SDS carefully read the studies that are being produced both within the framework of the institutions dealing with the nationality issue, ask the Office of Nationality and will know why the Roma Community Councillor is also envisaged in Grosup. These are therefore facts to be supported. We politicians can't change historical or geographical or cultural facts here. Although Mr Verlič spoke correctly, there is also a small amount of intolerance that unfortunately prevents dialogue between the Roma community and the majority, Slovenia, and also another defined community in some municipalities. The biggest problem is the lack of communication. Where this communication is established, for example in Prekmurje, perhaps because of historical experience, perhaps because of the multicultural attitude of the population there, because of the softness of the Pannonian low, I do not know why, but there this communication has allowed dialogue between Roma, Slovenians, Hungarians and others. The organisation of the Roma community in Prekmurje is also exemplary, not only for Slovenia, but also for Europe. And we often wonder why something similar does not happen or does not happen in some other Slovenian regions, such as Dolenjska. We would also find good practices in Dolenjska. And that is why the question is why Grosuplje is persistently warming up and defending itself from solutions that will finally work in a beneficial and positive way to tackle the problems that arise there. When the story of the Strojan family happened in Ambrus - I was a journalist and visited the same family as Ambrus several times - I felt a complete lack of communication. That's how prejudice worked. I'm not gonna say it was just on one side. It's probably just a matter of sharing the guilt. But when we divide the blame for one particular problem and conflict situation, it must always be borne in mind that on the one hand there is one minority and on the other there is one majority. And in a civilized world, in a world that sees human rights as one of the main values, we must always pay attention to this imbalance. And that is why we sometimes talk about positive discrimination, which is just the way to a balanced treatment of the two sides. This is about the Roma problem in the congregation of Grospel. As for the second point, which is not in these amendments, but let me just say two words. I believe that there is actually a need to remedy something as soon as possible that allows for extreme abuse. We could say that this proposal even appears too late that we should take it into account earlier, but as our Italian fellow countrymen in Istria say: Better late than ever. This law is worth the maximum support, in the hope that this proper debate will continue. Mr Verlič, I admit that in a calm way you have said, you have expressed certain concerns that are real, which are probably real in your territory, we can respect them, but let us understand that this issue is so complicated, it has one dimension of respect for human rights that we must not act as Members so superficially and so flatly when we are talking about autonomy. You know, even the Italian minority is often talked about, yes, these are the remains of the Italian kingdom, even fascist colonization, and it is forgotten that many, many centuries ago the Roman community has been present there, that it is in fact still an indigenous community, if we want to, from Roman times and beyond, Byzantine, Venetian and so on. Therefore, these superficial debates do not go to Parliament. We leave this to those who know the history of ethnology who know anthropology and culture. As for the Roma, once again, this is not possible, it is not intended for the SDS, which at least takes account of the correctness and respect of the Roma community in the language. But in this House there is also a constant pattern of impatience in terminology, which we have already observed, which we have repeatedly warned about. And once again, I call upon this esteemed assembly to use the terms provided for in the Constitution and with which they want to be designated directly to be affected in the appointment of all these minorities. This is the basis of a political culture and also the foundation of a bonton. Once again, I express my support for the amendment of the coalition and with your amendment, with the amendment of the opposition, I cannot agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Verlich, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I allow myself a replica because my fellow Member mentioned my name. It was precisely because you had a feeling or if I understood that you felt impatience for my debate with the amendment. I am on purpose because I think this is right, I have raised the issue of these amendments to the law and the proposal of the proposer in the direction of a systemic solution. I suggested writing down the criteria of autonomy into the law. In view of the fact that you have explained that, in order to determine the criterion of autonomy in the background, a whole series of studies explain this, then this makes me so much more justified in that it would actually be possible to write this in a nice, easy way also in the text of the article of the law. However, the proposal to hold the elections seems more unusual, but it seems perfectly logical that it is simply dissolved when the municipal council, for reasons such as these or other, is simply not respected for any of the acts prescribed, is simply dissolved and new elections are held. That's all I suggested. As for impatience, however, I think that the Grosuplje municipality, as such, is also paying great attention to solving this problem. Last but not least, we can look at each other's budgets. From that point on, we can see what is actually desired and what is happening in order to resolve this issue in an appropriate way in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I will not support the first amendment to Article 3 because it shows a strong desire for the will of some people in this congregation to be realized. Also, because I am convinced that the vast majority of people in Grosuplje do not feel the same way as the leaders of a congregation that has a majority in the congregation. And that is why it is right to finally close the chapter on national intolerance in our country. I think this is the last step until we finally show once that we are a mature nation, a mature country that can take care of the rights of minorities living in our space. That is why I cannot join my colleague, Franz Yuri, who said that it was only from the background that he felt a bit impatient, because he was probably comparing the hate speech of a fellow who spoke behind this counter today about the Roma and a little bit more in cotton and cellophane hate speech by the next colleague who spoke from the bench. I think that in our country we must finally come to the realization that those who are weaker, smaller by number, have the right to take care of those who are more than we are, with special care and to make their lives better and more acceptable in our vicinity. We have proved to be a mature nation in the case, I am speaking, of course, of Slovenians, when we are talking about our relationship with the Italian and Hungarian national communities. We have not yet reached the end with the Roma, inasmuch as it is necessary to assume that everything is not done when voters of the Roma national community, the ethnic community, are elected in the individual congregation, says not all voters. What we have heard today was understood as if now all voters in the individual congregation where Roma live have the right to vote for this Romani councilman. So the Slovenian public understands that it is the right of the Roma in this individual municipality to elect their representative to the municipal council. And I think it is high time that we also do this everywhere where the National Assembly of the Local Self-Government Act has laid down that this criterion of autonomy and the number or presence of the Roma community is also fulfilled. I would like to say that I am pleased, although the president may say that I am going beyond what we are talking about as amendments, that we have come to the point that we have also solved the problem of violence against the free will of members of the municipal council when they decide not to perform their functions anymore. We can't call this violence any different. However, there is something else I would like to draw your attention to. I think the government will finally have to solve this problem. One of these two cases, which in fact led to a proposal to amend the law at all, was one who was fictitiously reported to the Municipality of Koper and elected as such as a saint. We also have similar cases concerning mayors in this country, but the state does not do anything about the fact that a fictitious permanent application cannot be the basis for election to representative bodies in municipalities. And here I would say that this law gives a few more tasks to the Government, which will have to think slowly about how to regulate these things: either we open up, that someone can be a saint and mayor anywhere, or we say that if the condition for being elected is that you are a permanent resident, then it should also be valid for the whole country, but not only for the vast majority of municipalities. I must say that I will support the amendment to Article 3(2) and the amendment to Article 6a, while I will vote against the first amendment to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the list, and please sign in. Mr. Zanoškar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President. One more time. If in the area of, say, the municipality of Slovenj Gradec lived an indigenous Roma community or Roma appeared as nomads, i.e. in transit or transition, then I as mayor would be the first one to argue that this Roma community had a representative in the municipal world. In particular, because the Roma are specific to certain things and it is probably necessary to deal with such a specific case. All of these problems that we have experienced in the past with regard to the Roma are probably the expression that the Roma communities have not had contact with the municipal council, with municipal structures, so these problems have accumulated and escalated in the largest, widest form at the state level. I am surprised, therefore, that all those mayors whose municipalities are designated to live there are indigenous Roma communities, that they do not advocate for the implementation of the Law on Local Self-Government and that the representation or representative of the Roma community in this regard is ensured. With regard to the SDS amendment, I must say that there are some things here that I should agree with more or less. That is to say, if the Constitution defines in graves on the basis of some research which local communities are those with these indigenous Roma communities, it might be appropriate to establish a slightly more precise criteria for determining the communities where these communities live at that time. However, this is my personal opinion, which I ask more as a question, and I hope that the Secretary of State or someone from the Ministry will answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! From today's debate, it is possible to detect very different interests and different attitudes to date, but mainly proposals for changes to the law. Let me say that, first of all, if I go to the area of simplification of the procedures at the time of the derogations, that I will certainly support all the proposed changes, that I am sure here for those who, in any case, were involved in individual local communities and had problems, it is not right to violate fundamental constitutional rights on the one hand when we speak of the Roma as a community, and, on the other hand, when we are talking about those elected by the electorate and electorate. The mayors and all members of the municipal council, the city, the fourth communities and so on are also elected by the electorate and electorate. And that, in any way related to any autonomous decision of anyone to give up certain entrusted functions or places in the world, whatever the local community's leadership here is affecting - that is, the mayor or the mayor, or perhaps other members of the committees, perhaps also members of the committees and not adhere to the constitution and legal provisions - I believe that this solution is really necessary, or, as someone has already said, it may be too late or too late, but better now than never to solve such a problem. I also assess, given that in a good year, local elections in local communities are coming again, that there is also a possible political, possible business, possible decision of the one who somehow does not want to resign, that is, the local community and leadership that does not want to realize this desire or the request of someone that it is not positive for the elections and voters to take a long time. I am surprised that the decisions of some representatives of the local community go in this direction and think in this direction, because the power of a group or a group of saints or some other membership may also be listed, does not necessarily have to be demonstrated by the party or group, by actions, by work, and I do not think that this is necessary. But I think that the mayors, the mayors and others who run the local community, that this is somehow not in their best interests and not in their best interests. Let me stress, one of the colleagues is probably not so familiar with where Roma saints have already been elected, where they are not, in which local communities and so on. Let me say here in a way -- I haven't replicated because I wasn't mentioned -- but Metlika has had a Romani saint for a long time. And this Roma councillor also cooperates with members of the municipal council equally as all other members, and he also has certain roles and memberships in the committees, in the important committees of the local community, so here, in any way, some concerns, some debates that did not lead in the direction that we should probably then also ask ourselves whether we are not all equal or not all people, regardless of autonomy, to nationality - whatever we define. Each one of us is nothing more than a human being, but he has an autonomous right to be elected by the electorate and the electorate to represent his people equally. Even in the case of the proposed amendments, I will support, now in the debate on Article 3 and these amendments, the amendment of the coalition, but I also believe that, somehow also in the light of the proposal of colleagues from the SDS, that probably in all this matter, all these dilemmas, there is no way by the local community, for which it is somehow a proposal - I may not have spoken to all those who, however, would have a decisive and voting right here in this local community for which the proposal is, but I have asked some people who have voted. And these people did not have so many concerns or desires that I might not have run into people who would have and would have been in agreement with the amendment. In short, I want to stress and say that the Roma are part of us. In local communities, we have in the White landscape itself - and even in Dolenjska there is almost no congregation that does not have Roma. I must say that this cooperation is appropriate both from kindergarten to schools and all other institutions. I think, given that we have different lifestyles, different habits, different cultures, different ways of interacting, but here we respect each other. And as they say, "to knock," I'm going to try to keep working together, understand each other, and sometimes have a good time together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. I beg your pardon, as a proponent? Please lead him as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I didn't want to jump into the floor because it made sense for me to follow some order and a reasoned debate. However, I would like to take some time to respond to a few claims that can also be defined differently. It has been said that this law violates the autonomy of local governments. But I think that the interpretation should be quite the opposite - this amendment to the law in both substantive works means a stronger protection of local self-government in so far as it is possible to withdraw and confirm the mandate of the new municipal councillor or mayor and, when I speak of the amendment, also in the protection of the right of a particular community to exercise its rights in local self-government. Therefore, in this case we protect the Roma community and the right of the Roma community, in the specific case of the municipality of Grosuplje, to exercise its rights in the manner prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government and all other legislation. So it's not a violation, it's a matter of protecting local self-government in the most elegant, fast and even the cheapest way. I am sorry, however, that those who have made the most circulatory and negative choice of this law and used hate speech have now left the room completely and are not participating at all in the debate. And it seems to me that they take for themselves the legitimacy of the words they have spoken before. However, it was said that, in a different way and then in a much more civilized way, it was repeated that there were no certain criteria to define autonomy. Autochthonism is a concept that extends to social geography and to the geography of cultures that you can find very broad literature, as well as different opinions on how and when to define autonomy. If we go into the most specific definitions, which are also most widely accepted, autonomy is when a particular ethnic community retains its ethnic identity in the second, third or fourth generation of the population. So, if we are talking, for example, about the Roma, if the Roma are settled somewhere and remain in the second and third generations, then the children born there maintain their ethnic identity as Roma, as well as the grandchildren and so on. It's an indigenous nationality community. There are other interpretations, but this one is the one I find most tangible. Of course, if we look superficially, we can say that we are in contradiction with the Roma, because on the one hand we are talking about autonomy, that is, the stabilisation of a certain community in a particular territory, when we know that one of the main features of the Roma is nomadism, that is, the fact that this community is moving from place to place. However, it is also true that in recent decades this feature has become less and less present and that Roma are stabilizing as a community. This happened in Prekmurje, which is also happening in Dolenjska, where the community came later. Therefore, we can also use the concept of autonomy in this case. But I don't mind or think it would make sense, because autonomy is a concept that touches more ethnic communities to define it better. I warn, however, that any definition opens up other options that we do not know now. After all, the data is such that in Slovenia we also have other ethnic communities that are becoming indigenous. I am talking about the ethnic community in the republics of the former Yugoslavia because the second, third and fourth generations of children of this community are maintaining their national identity. On the other hand, I would like to explain to the speakers that I have seen a little smile, that this does not mean that at this moment I am advocating the possibility or solutions of such communities as well. I would caution, however, that any definition of autonomy can also raise these issues. It was said: Why the congregation of Grosuplje? Why do we solve the specific case of the congregation of Grosuplje? Unfortunately, it is a municipality that has, since 2002, for almost eight years now, not complied with the law or even implemented the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It was said, "Why is he in such a hurry?" But from 2002 to 2009, that's seven years! I don't think we're in a hurry or even really late and we should solve this. Why does the local community pay the costs? Because the local community is the one who is violating legislation and which will cause such costs; failure to respect legislation by the local community will result in such solutions, not because of something else. Therefore, it is right that those who cause certain damage in this case can be said that the cost of repairing this damage also pays. And in that case, it's a local community. I'd like to draw attention to another contradiction here. It was said why we would not rather dissolve the entire congregation than one of the anticipated possibilities. But if we are talking about costs and if this is one of the arguments against this solution, then it is wiser to conduct elections of the Roma Councilman, which will cost a lot less than the elections of the entire municipal council for a new one. That is why this solution is more elegant and, after all, less interference with the lives of this local community, the local community, Grosuplje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government. I am joining the interpretation of the term autonomy, as just presented by my colleague Luka Juri. I would like to point out just one more aspect of the use of this term, that even in the Council of Europe it is possible to note that the term autonomy, when we are talking about minorities, is specific to the regulation of the Slovenian constitutional text. I see the use of autonomy by the Roma community as a transfer of the use of the term indigenous minorities of Hungary and the Italian national community to Roma. I could refer to a literary and oral tradition that detects population, Roma population, in Slovenian space centuries ago. But in this case it is not even a question, I see the problem more in that we, on the one hand, are guaranteeing respect for the cultural patterns it has, and on the other hand we are demanding it to take our samples so that it can exercise its ethnic rights. But this is how we agreed, and this is also in line with what the Roma community adopted when we adopted the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, I think I am already accompanying in the National Assembly an attempt to exclude Grosuplje from a set of municipalities that must provide a Roma councillor. I object to this, so I will also vote this way against this amendment, because I do not accept the argument of greater security and the proximity of local elections in order to leave it to the next elections, but perhaps to regulate it, because the law which imposes and the previous coalition in the Law on the Romani Community in Article 7 clearly states or is written down and is adopted in the first paragraph that "in the municipalities in which the law governing local self-government elects a representative of the Roma community in the city or in the municipal council" that something else must also happen. But they're referring to the Local Community Act, and this is an act of the Local Community Act if we want to draw Grosuplja out. Before that, I heard from the debate that Roma live in Grosuply. Well, I don't know why we shouldn't consider it. The dissolution of the municipal council, the new elections, I'm sorry, because minority rights cannot be regulated by leaving the majority to decide on the possibility of exercising minority rights. Most people are stronger and will vote on the minority, so I find this completely unacceptable. The reference to the European Charter on Local Self-Government does not stand the test of Article 3 of the Law on the Roma Community because it requires the local community to allow the Roma community to co-decision on public matters relating to members of the Roma community. That is why the Roma community has the opportunity to appoint, choose, elect its representative to the municipal council so that representatives can co-decision on public matters. However we turn things around, I can't count on it to be a well-intentioned amendment to rule out Grosuplja. Now we can talk about whether the situation of Roma communities can be improved in other local environments that go over the number of 20 municipalities or not. I have already said that in Maribor we had two lists at the local elections, Roma, unfortunately they did not gather enough votes so that a member of the Roma community could be included in the city council without such positive legislation or provisions. I therefore defend a solution which, however, affects the rights of the local community, if it fails to do so alone - and this Grosuplje has not been regulated for many years, the two municipal councils have not already done so - if the state fails to do so. The same is true of some other things that the local community must regulate, but they are not well arranged to be affected by the state. So here is actually a reference to very weak legs. Anything else about naming, respecting people, we - thank God - have heard positive experiences in the National Assembly, and we have also heard cases that a person would not like to hear, and we must listen to them again and again every time and again and again, that some minority rights are not ready to be respected. The Roma Community is particularly protected from the European Union's policy position because it is known that it is particularly sensitive and therefore the necessary resources are also provided for the regulation of Roma housing, education and all other situations in the European Union. I consider the Roma Councillor to exercise the collective political rights to which I feel he has every member, irrespective of ethnicity and the number of these ethnicities, if he is specifically appointed, and even in our constitution, the full right. I would therefore like to see, for the last time in this context, an attempt to expel members of the Roma community from the decision-making process and to ensure political rights. As far as everything else is concerned, those we do not have in the constitution, with whom some smile, unfortunately only have cultural rights, because they are too little time to be perceived by others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u70	Respectable. In my view, we are working one unprecedented precedent by means of this law, which is that, in two points, the law on local self-government is not implemented or implemented voluntarily, as someone wants or group does, and then we adopt a law that the law must be respected. And more! In particular, in this article, we give comfort to those who will not know - and the country will do so. If it's the law, it's the law. That's why I have problems with the law itself before I start discussing matters. Let's go take a look, but I don't want to go to an article 2 which isn't open, but who can actively or passively violate the constitutional right of a citizen or a citizen of their own free will, as it was supposed to be in some case, and therefore we are correcting the law. Nobody. I have the right to run, if I am able to do my job and so on, I have the right to be elected and I have the right to resign - not to go any further! Because someone doesn't like it - of course some people want to go earlier, it's different, but if someone doesn't like that because of some other game you wouldn't let me go without someone else coming instead of me, but you would keep me here - I would be, say, sick and I would just like to say that I'm not going anymore, and he says, "No, no! Just wait, you'll get better and you'll come back! "I don't know why--so that no one else decides for me? This is a precedent for me both in Article 2 and in Article 3 as well. I don't know why this is the number of municipalities and those numbers that are listed here are those that determine municipalities in Slovenia that are supposed to have a Romani saint or saint. However, I believe that this list was made on the basis of some statistical, data, historical, and I do not know the basis for this particular congregation. They might not be here! Because of me, it would be a better explanation to say - I have already explained to my colleagues here, because we also have part of nomadic families. I know a case where there are at least a hundred registered in a congregation at the address of kindergarten, but they already have the right to vote there. According to this logic, there are classic nomads who do not have their place of residence, but they have been led somewhere because they are citizens or nationals of this country. So you might say, there is no need for a name, no congregation, but to find a mechanism when these people come to a certain congregation for a certain period of time. You know the case of the French, how do they handle it? All municipalities have parking lots or camps where those who also came to Slovenia, Koper, Otočec on May 1, 2004, but have found that the environment is not so friendly and that they left quickly. But they were here! And that was the explanation, because there were interviews, and I was just monitoring it, which is what thank God -- I don't know, but if we said, "Europe is our home together," I don't know why some people have to go away. Isn't that right, Mr. Petan? I don't mind either the French, or the Roma, or anyone else. But we have such an arrangement as we have imagined, I don't know, it can be even better; but for that name to be written down, there must be a reason. These are also citizens, citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who must also have someone - if from all the basic debates, from the adoption of the Constitution and beyond, we have set some standards, some frameworks, how a group of people can exercise their rights or how we, as a majority, will ensure that they all reach these rights. Therefore, even though I am doing so, it is difficult for me to give comfort to those congregations that should do so and that the state will do so, regardless of their paying. As well as if someone does not want to respect the will that someone does not want to go any more, that this is regulated by law, that the law must be respected, I say that I will support this other amendment, which is a consequence of the arrangement that has already been agreed upon, or the position on the committee, is logical and that the law will be consistent. But the other things I don't think are worth supporting, because they're going back, because they're going back in a direction that -- at least that's what I understood -- they're reducing standards, which I don't want to. However, it may happen that in the future there may be a congregation, although this is very closed, we know some things about how it is possible to move a family or more families from one congregation to another. I know the examples when they say to the congregation, "we know exactly who ours are" - and that's Romi and those others - : these are ours, we're here together, we're changed and we're going to regulate these relationships. Let's not let either one of us come here - and you don't want it either. I will not speak by the names of the congregations, for some know exactly what I am talking about, but I am talking about how these things can be regulated. It is clear that, because of me, if it happens that there will be no more of this in Mirna Peca or that it is not now, they will come to change it in the next term or whatever. But for now, it's like it says here. I'm not going to do anything else than feel like I have to do something because it's on the agenda. I will support the second amendment, in this article and, of course, in the end, in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you. He's got a word. Yes, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. I would like to tell him that there is no need to be so surprised at where those congregations are written down that must have a Romani priest. You know, Mr Anderlič, we sat together in this Chamber, it was a little different, where you, as the largest party in Parliament and also the largest coalition party, proposed this law. At that time, the debate was held all day, whether those congregations were justified to have or not a Romani saint. We have reported to you at the time such cases as you have now accepted, that there may be somewhere else, but you have persisted in your own, so now do not be surprised or say that you do not know how those congregations have been appointed and that there are just as many as they must have a Romani priest. You proposed the law at the time, and you were the one who defended that law the most, and you did not take into account the arguments that we, even in the opposition, tried to explain. And nothing helped. It doesn’t bother me that this is the way it is now, but it bothers me that you get to some point and wonder what the standards of these congregations were called in the marriage. You were the proponents and you were the biggest advocate. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u74	Since Mr Petan did not discuss it and I did not misinterpret it here and I did not misquote it here, the replica was unjustifiable, but to tell you: I did not wonder, because now he misunderstood me. I didn't say I was wondering why these congregations were listed, but that I don't know why they were, but that's probably why they are -- and I explained why. Because there are criteria for that! I mentioned you because you said thank God that those who visited the Republic of Slovenia left Slovenia immediately. And that meant because I was talking about the French Roma, that you were showing a certain relationship to them. Fine, but that's your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u75	Well, it was an abuse of the rules of procedure. I'm on it. Mr. Chad, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I note that today's debate has been possible from most of those Members who have experience in this. I come from a local environment where Roma and I don't have any special things to do, but I'll probably remember today after the intervention into local self-government begins. I can also say that I am interested in why so much energy is released into the congregation of Grosuplje. I may have remembered the proposaler's words most, that it's helpful, but I don't think that's very helpful. We have already asked for help in the construction of kindergartens, co-financing of pre-school education, primary school, but we have received an answer that it takes as many as three months to think about it. But I think these things are a lot more interventional. If I ask myself how to get things done. Early elections - yes, that's a very elegant proposal, but they don't smell this stuff to the proposer. But I ask myself a little differently, I suggest a more elegant thing. We know the municipalities in Slovenia where they establish their local lists and perform in local elections, one is successful, the other is unsuccessful. Let's try it this way! Perhaps another question or proposal for a candidate: you put the following local elections on your list of Roma candidates, and you will see how successful you will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you. The speaker has the floor, Dr. Luke Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I don't think we understand each other here. We do not understand the concept of a special councilman or a special Member. And we don't understand the concept of positive discrimination. Such provisions in the Constitution and in law exist precisely because some ethnic communities would otherwise be cut off, even because of their small size, from political life. Such ethnic communities, an important component of the Slovenian ethnic composition, have the opportunity and opportunity to participate in the political and social life of this country, both at the state level and at the municipal level. That is why we have the Institute of the Member of the Italian National Community and the Member of the Hungarian National Community. And that's why we have the Romani councillor's institute. And not only the Romani saint, but also the saint of the Hungarian national community in many congregations and the saint of the Italian national community in many congregations. In the municipality of Koper we have three saints of the Italian national community from a total of 33 saints and saints. So the institution of a special seat for a particular ethnic community exists precisely because we want to allow positive discrimination for this ethnic community to be integrated into political and social life. And what has now been proposed is contrary to the very purpose enshrined in the Constitution. For all three nationalities that have specific rights or, clearly, in the constitution or where the constitution refers to the law, the law shall then determine these matters. I'm surprised to hear anything like this because it means abolishing this institute if we accept such logic. Then we can talk about it and we will find some arguments for the abolition of this institute, I know we will find them. So I'm not saying this thing is taboo, but then let's call it a matter of her real name. We want to take a step back from what we have achieved in the constitution and law, and we want to delete certain specific rights of nationalities. Of course, what do I think of such a proposal, and there will be time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Lach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Let me start by saying that I have nothing against the Roma saints. I come from Dolenjska, where we limit ourselves to the largest Roma settlement in Dolenjska. And we have quite a few experiences in Dolenjska with Roma and Roma saints. In fact, the Constitutional Court ordered the Government to prepare criteria for the establishment of a Roma councillor. However, this has not been done, but the National Assembly, as we have already heard today, does not know on the basis of any criteria, set up 20 congregations where they must have a Romani saint. The municipality of Grosuplje was opposed to their opinion that there were not enough Roma to have the right to have a Romani councillor in relation to the other municipalities. There were no criteria and no criteria to determine, and since the congregation has not yet held elections for a Romani councillor, the state has reached out and the state will elect a municipal councillor. I believe that this is a grave violation of the autonomy of local self-government. It would be the right way to set the criteria and criteria and to determine before each local elections on the basis of the number of Roma living there - otherwise I do not know in what way. However, there is a problem because no one in our country knows how many Roma are in certain settlements. Yesterday I read about one number of Roma by municipality, and then I called the mayor, who said they had at least once more Roma as it was written there. We have congregations that we know do not have a Romani saint, and they have percentages in school of the most Roma children. They don't have a Romani saint! How are Roma rights guaranteed there?Oh, my God! At some point, the administrative unit in Dolenjsk ordered municipalities to count the Roma. The mayors we jumped into the air, who is competent in this country to determine how many citizens are where. Shall we assemble and count the mayors and report them to the administrative unit, how many of them are there? If the Roma do not already have a permanent residence where they live, if they can build on foreign lands without a building permit, if we give them the right to a councilman in the municipal world without knowing how many of them live in this congregation, I do not know what rights they have. Then they have a double election right for a municipal councillor. Once they elect theirs from among the leaves of the others and on their list. In the New Town, Roma have their representative on the list of economies that have their own list in the municipal world, because he came by preferential vote, escaped on the list of all entrepreneurs, except one, and came to another place and is a member of the municipal council. How there is no way to be chosen!? So I would suggest that we should not laugh here with such changes of the law in such a way as to determine by law how and in what way a state will appoint one municipal councillor in one congregation, but rather that it is resolved in such a way as to establish the criteria and criteria for determining the conditions for a municipal councillor in a particular congregation. First, however, this condition needs to be met so that we can count on how many there are in the individual Roma congregation. I'll give you an example, as I said on the committee, that in Dolenjska we say that Roma live in Zabek. Toadljek is not a village where they already live, but is a village of Brezje. The frog is a hill on which there were sometimes trombones and in each congregation the Roma could have been for a month. Since this was on the tromé, tents moved only from the congregation to the congregation and lived practically on the same hill all the time. They're nomads, and because they're nomads, we can't count them either. However, let us assign them, and they can move to one congregation for a few years, and they will leave the saint because we will make the law decree that they have a saint, and they will go to another congregation for a few years, and they will leave another priest there because they will prove that they are in that congregation for so many years. Autochthonousness, that means that they could have lived in a congregation for 50 years or more, but now they are gone, but they were indigenous or there were few left, but there were so many. I think they have the right to have a saint in that congregation when there are so many and so many of them live, and to regulate their affairs in the municipal world, which I think is perfectly correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. We have a solution here that is not systemic. Unfortunately, the government and the coalition, which are very consistent in assessing the proposals proposed by the opposition parties, are keen to identify and write that certain things still need to be examined, to check that they will then propose a systemic measure. In this case, when it is certainly not a systemic solution, the Government did not refer this finding to the National Assembly. She didn't intervene in the National Assembly! And here I can only find once more that the government's relationship to the coalition's proposals or to the opposition's proposals is completely diametric, completely non-systemic, two-faced. Why am I saying this? Yesterday we were sitting here, I mean, something, three or four, when the Minister of Justice explained that because of "lex penko" there is no law that solves a particular case. Lex Penko. We have proposed that in the Law on Lawyers it be limited or that a competitive clause concerning the transition of judges, prosecutors between lawyers. And that's what the Secretary of State said. I can quote you, at 9:30 p.m., he said: "There have been cases on which the applicant builds his idea that it is absolutely necessary. We could call this law "lex penko" because this case is the one that was already the basis or the reason for a similar experiment and did not come out later. However, we cannot deal with laws that generally apply a certain individual excess. Individual excesses happen to us in all sub-systems of the country, which is why we do not adopt another law every day." Oh. K., I'm gonna end up here because then it's about the trial going on. This is exactly the case in this particular case: we, with a general law such as the Law on Local Self-Government, are trying to settle in every way an individual case that happened in one of the 210 municipalities in Slovenia. I ask the proposer, too: Is there a need for a general regulation, given what Justice Minister Zalar said yesterday at 9:30 p.m., to regulate it this way? Look at the government's position! If we adopt some general rules, then these standards must apply in general and we cannot, in a way like now the proposal that some individual excess, such as the non-rescription of elections for the Roma Councilman in Grosuplje, be regulated in this way. The mechanism, the real mechanism, would probably be to dissolve the municipal council, as stipulated in the Law on Local Self-Government, because it does not sign elections for a municipal councilor. That would probably be the right thing to do. I think that's what the law says. By no means is the right measure a particular case, a special solution in the law for a congregation of Grosuplje because it has not done so. Mr Potrč was probably still here when Mr Zalar said that, Mr President of the National Assembly, and several other Members on this side. And it might be good that before you decide on this excess that you will put into the law on local self-government, you read the magnetogram of Minister Zalar in another similar exercise that is supposed to happen with the bill we proposed. It is not right for the government and the coalition to measure proposals with different vats. On one occasion, you are allowing an extraordinary solution, and secondly, a systemic, general solution, because what we have proposed is a general ban on passing judges and prosecutors between lawyers, not an exemplar, but a general one, the government disagreed because it was supposed to be "lex Penko" or the assumption that it was the basis of "lex Penko". This is an exemplar example of the recovery of an exceptional case in one of the congregations. The law on local self-government is probably clear. Where the authorities of the municipality do not act in accordance with the law, certain procedures shall also be provided for. And if you want, then in accordance with these envisaged procedures you should also implement or ensure the implementation of the law on local self-government. It is also an amendment that you proposed to increase the number of municipal councillors by one in the municipality of Grosuplje, an exemplar case, an exemplar case, an extraordinary solution that is not consistent with the composition of municipal councils in other municipalities. It's an excess. As far as I know the law on local self-government, it is written, how many municipal councillors are in each municipality according to the number of inhabitants. And the writings grew. By such an approach as the coalition allows in this case, it is an extraordinary solution, a solution that is not systemic, a solution that is written to remedy some situation in an illegal way, in the wrong way. If we keep going. The Law on the Financing of Communities in Criteria and Criteria also takes into account the size of municipal councils in appropriate consumption. That's also a derogation if that happens. The Minister spoke yesterday about another matter - the proportionality of the measure. This means that, given the situation, it is necessary to assess that a proposal is proportionate. Was three months or half a year before the call for local elections, given that three or three and a half years ago there were no conditions for the election of a municipal councillor in the municipality of Grosuplje, this proportionate measure? If we know that the local elections will be called no later than September of the second year. And before this process starts and this thing comes to fruition, it will be February, March of next year. This is a proportionate measure, while other cases have not been implemented. I believe that we should refrain from all those discussions that have been held here, as regards equality of representation, as regards relations with individual nationalities, national minorities or individual communities. We have no problem with this, but the problem is to ensure that laws are implemented in accordance with the laws adopted. This can be ensured in the Local Self-Government Act. It is likely that the National Assembly is the one who should, on the basis of the proposal, take a certain decision on dissolution and so on. However, the government does not make this move to make elections to the entire congregation council and to ensure the structure of the municipal council, in accordance with the standards applicable to the composition of municipal councils in the congregations. I regret to note that all too often we meet in this National Assembly with various exhibitors, with some non-systemic approaches and solutions, with some things that are trying to settle a certain excess. However, do not use instruments to regulate the matter systematically and as prescribed in the law. There's something else. The government, because it is actually very systemic and this is systemic, has not defined itself to these amendments. Not at all. She did not spend a second of her time identifying herself for the amendments tabled after two hours. Not a word of this has been said! That's systemic. This is the systemic approach and systemic conduct of government representatives at a meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to hear from the representatives of the Government whether the amendments tabled under Article 3 are also tabled in accordance with the applicable legislation and legislation. Whether they interfere with these provisions - for example, the second amendment - in other solutions to the same law or any other law, and then there will be other harmonisation amendments to regulate the appointment or election of municipal councillors, the composition of municipal councillors and the financing of municipalities, after all in this case. I would expect the government to have a discussion before it even develops to give its opinion on the proposed amendments, but unfortunately, as usual, there is no comment, there is no discussion in this nor in any other law. Finally, when the story is over, they make a comment and say something general, one that has nothing to hold on to. I suggest that the government comment on these laws with regard to the amendment. I'd like to answer these exact questions that I asked earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 3? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm reopening the application. Applicants and the Government may, of course, be involved in the debate whenever they wish. Mr. Gumzar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Today, when we consider amending and supplementing the law on local self-government as well as amendments, it is more or less clear that this would not be necessary if we respected the law already adopted on local self-government and would, of course, be able to deal with another topic today. I must say that when I listened to some of the debaters, in one way trying to prove that the congregation of Grosuplje must be deleted from this list, and the other, that it must remain in this list, in fact, I have one of the most in mind of the discussers that the congregation of Grosuplje is being wiped out. But this was said: It is best to leave this topic to the individual local communities. It was further said that this same local community in Grosuplje is spending a great deal of money on the question or regulation of Roma matters. This, in my logic, actually means that this same local community, which is right, admits that in its midst people live with this origin or Roma, so they also give them a piece of money. But they don't want a saint among themselves. Why is that? I can't imagine. But it's true that these coexistences, if I may say so, are different on a local level. Those local communities, which otherwise receive money for their operations and for ensuring the normal stay of Roma in their midst, are committed to building municipal infrastructure and other matters, may have fewer problems than those who do not. But it is true that we can speak more easily about this problem to those who do not have people in their midst. I would, of course, like to point out once again how our rule of law is actually an illegal state if we find that the law adopted so many years ago has not entered into force. And even if today we adopt amendments and additions to this law and if no one implements it, just as we have not implemented the previous one, we will not get better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you. The discussion was that, at the principle level, no one opposed the political participation of Roma in local environments. All you can hear is this thesis, because it's based on this principle, "they can, but not us." The enumeration question was mentioned, someone said they needed to be counted and then given the number to allow or not to allow entry. I strongly object to the reading because we once argued that minority rights must be exercised on the other side of the Slovenian-Austrian border, regardless of the number of members of Slovenian nationality. Counting by itself is still my problem at one point. When we look at the census, the census, the last of which was carried out, was considered not to be an individual’s nationality. As a result, the figures on the number of members of any national community are uncertain, since they combined this in the census with the one spoken in the household. But I think this way, if we count them, we'll never get to what we should get to in the local environment. Towards inclusion. It doesn't matter what the number is, but we value every man. I think that we also have positive practices in Dolenjska, where the inclusion of the Roma population, taking into account and taking advantage of the opportunities offered by European funds to do so, has achieved good results. You can't force anyone to do anything. However, if we follow closely what the law gives us, let us also say an assistant at school. We have as many as 30 educational assistants for the entire Roma population in Slovenia. If we are to achieve better results for faster progress in education, of course we should do more. And here I see the answer to the pressures and possible conflicts. I have also noticed very different practices and experiences in the Maribor area, within one city in various urban quarters, involving the Roma population. However, if you ask at the Centre for Social Work, they will tell you that they should not even have a special register for Roma under existing legislation. But their practice is one or their experience is such that the number of troubled families is possible in one or another population. They can be everywhere. Because we are people and we have positive and negative qualities. We don't just talk about things here. We're talking about breaking the law. And what really seems to me to be a great deal of perversion is that now the subject of the court is an attempt to regulate the law, something that has not been settled so far, because one of the congregations that should have had a Romani councillor was able to avoid this obligation. And I'm not going to go on with anything else. There is also an environment, and there are other places, and many things could be said about this. I mean, at least that's what I was taught or explained by those who have good experience with the principle of integration with the population with different cultural customs, with different religious backgrounds in Western Europe, to realize that the only possibility that conflicts are not, is a respectful relationship between people of different backgrounds, openness to learning the opposite culture. And most can never be threatened by a minority. This should also lead us to do so when there is a crack in human relations. I am also a defender of the realization of collective rights and a advocate of political participation of minorities. I think it is possible to adopt this law, despite the knowledge that we already have the legal basis for it, but unfortunately they are not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Yuri, on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. On issues where human rights are at stake, I think it is very often that the National Assembly is divided into two very crystallised parts. One part clearly defends human rights in all mandates and another part rejects them on the basis of such or other technical reasons or on the basis of a purely transparent hate speech. And I would like to read to you something that is also the basis of our constitution, this law and this change. The 1948 General Declaration on Human Rights provides that everyone has the right to participate in the management of his country's public affairs and to have the right to public service in his country under equal conditions. The Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National and Ethnic Religious Linguistic Minorities provides, inter alia, that persons belonging to minorities have the right to participate effectively in cultural, religious, social, economic and public terms. Roma in Slovenia, in my opinion, represent cultural wealth. They represent something that enriches our country and our society and not the other way around. And regardless, according to the studies we have, about 40, 50 and 49, that we are accurate, 49% of Roma today live in barracks, tents, wagons, containers, trailers or poor quality assembly houses. Only half of them live in something that looks like a house. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones in Slovenia who have such housing and social conditions. But they represent a systemic group that has such social and housing problems. It is precisely because, on the basis of these data, the ethnic community is at risk of being socially threatened by the ethnic community that Slovenia has a positive approach to them and therefore allows them to be better integrated also on the basis of the opportunities afforded by the Roma Councillor. When we were preparing changes to this law, we were also discussing the concrete experiences of people on the ground. And the most common response was that the Roma Councillor's Institute greatly eased those problems between the majority community and the minority Roma ethnic community, because the Roma thus received not only the right but also the responsibility, as has been rightly said today by their colleagues in the SLS, of exercising their rights in the local political community. And the Roma community, where there is a Romani councillor's institute, is today turning to a Roma councillor and asking him to grant them certain rights. And the Roma saint became that mediator between the Roma community and the majority political community, which also explains what is possible, what is acceptable and what is not. This facilitates tensions that arise directly between the Roma community and the majority community, sometimes because of misunderstandings. The escalation that we have seen in recent years, and unfortunately for me also because of the lack of such a view the previous government has not been able to save for a long time, and we had to have special forces to protect the Roma community and people who felt threatened by the Roma in order to avoid street and village protests and conflicts. We were in that area at the edge of the civil war between the two ethical communities, because there was no possibility of this mediation, there was no possibility of these discussions, there was no possibility of these negotiations between the two communities. The lack of dialogue leads to such disputes. Roma are, but not only for the Slovenian people, a good mirror of our society and, therefore, in a sociological sense, they are also ashamed or embarrassed by their immediate proximity. On the one hand, the Roma express what our "civilised" community has lost: directness, love of life, genuine human relations, among the indications. And also what was man's property in the past: nomadism. But we hear from children ahead, don't trust the Gypsies, they're dirty, they steal children, they do a lot of things, and that consciousness then grows with us and becomes fear. Fear is the basis for hatred, fear is the basis for racism. Colleagues and colleagues, the Romani saint is in those congregations that they have, plus, is an opportunity, and there is no burden or weakness. I am sorry that the leadership of the congregation of Grosuplje, in which the majority of the party of SDS has it, does not understand this. And so I can explain some of the questions that my predecessors had, why such a non-systemic solution. Because there is a systemic problem that, unfortunately, one party, who is also sitting in the National Assembly, has not been able to solve for almost eight years. And since there is a non-systemic problem, an extraordinary problem needs to be addressed in such solutions that we would not want to interfere with if it were not necessary. It's a hate speech. We heard something and were expected to hear it because as far as we knew each other. As I said before, hate speech, promoting fear is what is the basis for racism. I'm afraid that a lot of people today who express hate speech more or less secretly have racism as a basis for such hate speech, have the belief that some are less valuable and therefore do not deserve the same opportunity. But we sometimes ensure the same opportunities by giving them a special right, because otherwise we could not possibly have had the same opportunities. When I coached basketball almost 20 years ago, my coach once said, you know, the team is as strong as its weakest member. And Slovenia is also a team and Slovenia will always be as strong as its weakest member. Let's make sure we're all stronger together than the team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. I think that, despite the fact that this is Article 3, some things need to be defined. Because on the one hand there are many things on the other, from the violation of human rights, hate speech, and so forth, I think something really needs to be said. Look, when you talk so much about human rights, of course, because we are all for human rights, we all stand for it. However, in doing so, it is necessary to be very sensitive and not frail as an elephant in a porcelain trade and not to be treated in a partial manner. When we're talking about one segment, I don't really use the community, I think someone would think I mean something specific. But in general, I speak. When I talk about a segment of the population, we are all in favour of this segment having maximum rights, but it is important to be careful that we do not go so far as to run against the rights of others. Because that means we're violating someone else's human rights at the expense of the third. And this has happened in this House in many cases. I'll give you one case that has nothing to do with this. That's perfect. It's deleted. And I'm not going to comment. You all know what this is about. If we wanted to give them something more, we cannot go beyond the fact that others have human rights. As for this particular congregation, which we are talking about today, I have already said today that Grosuplje had a specificity with the congregation, I think ten years ago when we adopted this basic law. We all told you in the opposition that this congregation is somewhat different and that we do not really know why this congregation was on that list. But since you had some specific problems with yourself at the time and wanted to tell someone something, you also included the Grosuplje Congregation here. And today you have a problem. You have it, not us. We do not violate human rights because we did not give up, but a representative in the congregation has resigned in this community, where you have essentially forced them to have their representative in this congregation. Mr Yuri, I will specifically name you, not to give you the opportunity to reply, but because you didn't sit here at the time, you don't know that. But those who sat here know exactly what the debate was like, that it was forced. That's the first one. As for the hate speech, however, with all due respect for you, I would like to say that citing certain arguments that you may not like is not an hate speech. Notifying problems that occur in a particular community that may not like them is not yet an hate speech. But with us in this House, a little less in this mandate, I also admit it, but in the previous term, we kept on talking about an enemy speech at every session because someone didn't have the right arguments. And we should keep apologizing to each other for watching someone talk. You just have to look somewhere. But it was already a problem for the hate speech. If someone mentioned something, it was right in the middle, but you thought maybe that, and we had to apologize again. Thank God, I haven't seen this much in this term, but now I see that all of a sudden you've started using this hate speech again if the arguments don't suit you. That's what I'm thinking. When we talk about the problem of the Roma, we know exactly that the locals, those who live there, I don't know how long they've had problems with people from the Roma community. If you remember, they came before the government, and they demonstrated. I didn't live there, but they said they had impossible problems. Police don't act, but things happen that don't belong to any normal society. And if these people express these problems, it's not an hate speech to a community that may be threatening them. In addition, you know, intimidation by the Roma community of locals is also not a suitable matter, and if these people defend themselves, it is not an hate speech. And if someone, a native, is beaten in his own house, so that he's in a coma for six months, and then, as they call it, protest against it, it's not a hate speech. And I think it would be right to distinguish that human rights are also that you fight for your existence and that if someone attacks you and beats you up, you'll react. You have the right to defend yourself. But it's not a hate speech yet, it's not an intolerance to others, even though they're in a minority. Dear colleague, it is necessary to look at a little more broadly and slightly and to respect the human rights of those who are in the majority as well. Most also have human rights and have the right to them, so it is necessary to be sensitive and aware of the problem as a whole. As for Grosuplje, once again, it was imposed eight or ten years ago that the congregation was also present. And today, the problem is with those people. And you have a problem that you wanted this congregation to be with because you had, I don't know, something you wanted to tell someone, in your own words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u92	Because we got along badly. I, gentlemen, have known my interlocutor for a year, and I know he's a patient person, so hate speech doesn't touch him personally. However, some debates are touched, even at the beginning of the debate at this point, where we have heard words that exist and are not in themselves offensive, and I am talking about the word "gigans", which have been set up in such a context, where just when we use the subtlety that we have just talked about, we know that the basis for use in this context is hate speech, hatred and xenophobia. That's what this was all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. I will use these two more minutes, which we have as the Zares Group, first to deny one statement by Mr Petan. He was talking about this unloving incident, which, of course, we all regret, because one person stayed in a coma for a long time, but you know that the direct cause of that tragic event was not even Rom. That's why deception, and that's basically the substance of hate speech when you say something and point the blame at one ethnic community. And there have been quite a few such attempts in your implementation. I believe, and no one who thinks sober thinks that in this country is just walking around and that some are clean and others are dirty, some black, some are white. We all know that every situation is complex and that the problems are also complex. In part, we can also understand the involuntary and demands of the part of the population that requires clean accounts, which simply requires a normal relationship. But when it goes so far as to keep trying to criminalize a minority community, of course we create conditions where so-called hate speech prospers, not only hate speech, but also hatred. And this is constantly happening on the side of the political spectrum, which should be more European today. The SDS is part of the European People's Party. The SDS led this country when we chaired the European Union. From this party we would expect and expect, however, a higher level of communication, even when it comes to the words of the President of this party and the former President of the European Union when he speaks of a minister of this government. Read yesterday's interview and you'll see what a hate speech really is. Of course, it does not apply to Roma, but a similar pattern is used, even when we are talking about different minorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. When Slovenia chaired the European Union, it represented the country. I hope that this is clear to some, although they obviously do not know. Otherwise, look, here you are discussing the problems of Roma co-existence with the majority population of those who know virtually nothing or very little about it. Therefore, all those invited to take a week or fourteen days of time, you will come to Novo Mesto, where these problems are burning, and you will learn a lot and then you will propose solutions that will also solve this problem. I guarantee you, the Roma councilman in the municipal world does not contribute to solving these problems completely nothing. We have two Roma saints in New Town. Which means that the Romani councilman came to the municipal council with direct elections in a way that they could organize. It means that where will would be there could be a Romani saint. And how this law is, this proposal is misplaced [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As well as previous solutions, this shows, we are back in New City before the new elections for the municipal councillor by the Roma and a non-Romania candidate. [[...]] And I fear that, in the event of her election, she may come to the Constitutional Court again to question whether this is the right way or whether it is unconstitutional. Such solutions as this law brings, this problem that needs to be solved, are far from being solved. Therefore, it would be appropriate for this amendment to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Guido Kres, then Luke Jury, as the proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is my opinion that everyone in this country must be given the right to participate in political, economic, cultural and so on, in any kind of life. Today, when we label Roma or Gypsies like that, I can tell you that they call us many times. We live in the countryside, collect waste materials, come to the yard. And I went to him once, and I said, "Tell me, what do you want to be? Are you a Gypsy or are you a Rom because it's a dilemma?" He says, "Look, I want to be a Romani, but we used to name each other because we meet. Someone else wants to be a gypsy, be a gypsy, I want to be a Slovene, I want to be a Slovenian." And there's no dilemma about what you want and how you want to belong to someone. But what bothers me is that as a majority of us, we like to label someone with that word very much. But I often wonder if it is even offensive to this community, because living in this way, living with my values, being different and so on and so on and so forth, it is not at all easy. And in this to live and be faithful to these principles. The other thing is criminalization. However, where criminalisation is carried out, there must be a state where it has to sanction its own affairs and no matter what community you belong to in this country. We have to set an example for the majority. I'm just wondering if most people always set the right example. Because it is well known that this world has always been made by a minority, and in the beginning there has always been a minority of resistance, and I am sure that people in this area with problems need to be helped by the State in another way and institutions in another way to solve these problems. However, everyone must be given the right to participate in political, cultural, economic and any kind of life. So I think there's going to be a lot of words about this, and we're going to talk about it a lot more. Above all, it is necessary to act in a spirit of respect. But I would also like to point out that these intolerances also bring about the fact that the minority is also impatient to act to the majority. And I think that these are the problems that we need to talk about, to educate ourselves about, to learn about, and to try to live with respect for each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I did not want to point this out earlier in the replica, but it makes sense, however, just when we are trying to define, how we are leading this debate around this amendment and which is the basis of the end of the amendment and what is behind it. We have heard a reference to a second debate on human rights on so-called deleted persons. And it was said that the deleted wanted something more. That's what this is all about. We also in that case, and I am returning immediately to this case, not to give anything anymore, but because of their status, these groups are already deprived of themselves and we are solving the matter by making equality possible through special solutions. In the case of deleted persons, this group has been deprived, and it is still due to an unlawful decision and, therefore, through legal treatment, these decisions are nullified and the possibility of living on an equal footing is returned to them. In the case of the Roma community, which is socially discriminated against because of its specific situation, it is allowed to exercise equality through the Institute of Positive Discrimination. He's my predecessor. I think he's defined these problems exactly. The right to be different, no matter how different, is equal. All different, all equal. I would like to refer to this case, the case of the municipal council and the Roma councillor, then also to the National Assembly and Members from ethnic minorities, for example the European Parliament and the European Union, where we are all minorities. I wonder if anyone would agree in the National Assembly to abolish special seats according to the country of origin in the European Parliament, that Slovenia would no longer have 7 or 8 seats provided in the European Parliament, Germany so much more, Austria somewhere in the middle, but to say that we will have lists, we will have a simple election without some geographical definitions, let us see. Of course, we risk having so many Germans in such a European Parliament, so many more Frenchmen, and perhaps no Slovenians. We're risking that. And it is because we are all a minority in the EU that we have a clearly defined, defined possibility of how many of our representatives will be in the European Parliament. And this is the EU's station. The EU is a minority. We're all a minority there. And if we go back to our case, we can see that we can draw a similarity. It is because someone is a minority and is still socially, economically deprived, that is why positive discrimination allows them to do so. And once again, the Romani saint is not a weakness. A Romani councilman is an advantage. I've been told before that I know problems. Maybe. A lot less than a lot of other people. However, I did go through a life story where, as a member of the Italian national community, I once even experienced physical violence. And that's interesting, by a member of another community who also felt threatened. One of the communities from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. And many times I have been verbally spoken in a negative sense. So I have a direct experience with what discrimination means. How many times have I heard when I was a child that I was a fascist just because I speak Italian at home? Then, a few times later, I had this unique opportunity to attend both those gatherings when we organised in Slovenia the possibility of refugees from other republics of the former Yugoslavia coming and living temporarily, as well as the Roma communities. And when you're there, you see that problems are completely different in nature when you have to teach children that they have their own toothbrush, because there's a community that lives with different values, and there's a logical way that one toothbrush is for all children, and the other toothbrushes will be saved for when it's used. This is a banal example, but it is an excellent example that shows you how values are and how the problems of those communities are completely different. At the same time, they must be put in place against everyday basic needs, such as the need for hygiene. Why am I talking about this? As previously said, the right to be different but to be able, no matter how different you may be, to be equal in the society in which you live. I regret that this debate does not go in the direction of other Roma congregations to come forward and say that we too want to resolve the issues that we have with the Roma Councilor. One congregation, which I know was at the heart of the debate, is the congregation of Ribnica. No, we're talking about why we wouldn't want to remove it. And this conversation, the basis of it, I'm afraid, is not acceptance, but rejection of diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 3? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6a and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 16.25. Before moving to the 18th point, I promised in the introduction of today's meeting that I would re-check with the professional services, I would consult, on a procedural proposal made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, proposing that the order of treatment of the points should be changed, that the 18th and 18th points should first be dealt with, and that individual votes should be taken on individual proposals in the decision and, of course, on the decision. So I've studied this from all angles, consulted with the Legal and Legal Service. I must reiterate that Article 14 of the Law on Local Self-Government is clear and provides that a proposal for a change in the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality, if the conditions are met, shall be decided first and a decision shall be taken on the rejection decision. If they were to replace the order of treatment in order to decide on the rejection decisions first and then the classification, they would violate the Law on Local Self-Government. And if the congregation were not satisfied, that would certainly be a reason enough to enforce and obtain administrative protection. The same applies to individual votes. It should be borne in mind that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have arranged for one-phase acts to be treated in an analogous manner, that is, as a law in the second reading, if I simplify - to apply reasonably, the law in the second reading, as set out in Articles 169a to 171. In this respect, all the parliamentary groups had the opportunity to table amendments on a proposal for acts. They didn't do it, so the act is closed. This concludes my explanation. We move on to the 18th A-point of the agenda - REFERENCE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE REFERENCE AND THE PROVISIONS OF REFERENCE AREAS FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CITIZENS OF THE CITIZENS FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THEIR AREAS. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, William Trofenik, for further explanation of the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. At its 3rd session, on 7 July 2009, and on 8 July 2009, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered 19 proposals to change the name of the municipality, to set up municipalities or to change their areas and to change the status of municipalities. In the field of changing the name of the municipality, the Committee considered the proposal of the Municipality of Sveti Jurij to align its name in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government with the name of the central settlement, which was renamed Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica in 1997, to the municipality of Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica. The Committee proposed to the Government that, at the time of the first amendment and amendment of the Law establishing the municipalities, it should propose that the name of the municipality be changed. This proposal concludes the procedure under Article 14 of the Law on Local Self-Government in the National Assembly. In the area of setting up new municipalities or changing their areas, the Committee considered 8 proposals proposed by qualified candidates, namely: a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran proposed by Ambassador Franco Juri, a proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Koper for the new Municipality of Koper and the new Municipality of Decani, Škofija - Hrvatini - Crevatini and Marezige-Šmarje proposed by the Council of the Municipality of Koper; a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Fram proposed by Ambassador Jožef Jerovšek; a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Dobrova proposed by Ambassador Milan Gumzar; a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Mirna proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Anton Anderlic; a proposal for the establishment of the municipalities of Loča proposed by Ambassador Rudolf Petan, a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Breg-Turne, proposed by Mr. By a majority of votes, the Committee assessed that the proposals for the municipalities of Ankara, the municipality of Mirna and the distribution of the Municipality of Koper, as proposed by the Council of the Municipality of Koper, met the legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality and, for other proposals, assessed that they did not meet the conditions for establishment. The Committee further considered the proposals of the municipalities of Piran, Ravne na Koroškem, Krško, Brežice, Domžale, Idrija, Jesenice, Kamnik, Radovljica and Škofja Loka to change the status of the municipality. After extensive discussion, the Committee concluded that none of those municipalities met the legal conditions for the municipality. On the basis of the debate, the Committee adopted two conclusions: the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examine the situation of municipalities and municipalities which do not have the status of a municipal municipality and carry out tasks of wider importance and prepare appropriate legislative changes as soon as possible. Secondly, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the fact that more than half of the existing municipalities do not meet the minimum criteria for the establishment of municipalities, examine the appropriateness of the applicable legislation in the field of the conditions and procedures for the establishment of municipalities, and in particular in terms of ensuring the quality of public services and proposing the necessary amendments to legislation. In accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposals which, according to the majority opinion of the Committee, fulfil the conditions are included in the proposed decree on the call for a referendum and the establishment of referendum areas. However, proposals which, according to the majority opinion of the Committee, do not meet the conditions are included in the proposal for a decision to conclude that individual areas do not meet the conditions for setting up a municipality. More details are provided in the written report of the committee you received along with the material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Meta Vese Valentinčič, State Secretary of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. With regard to all proposals sent to Parliament for the establishment of new municipalities or for the distribution of the Koper Congregation, the Government adopted a principled position. The main point of view is that we do not support the establishment of new municipalities, we do not support further fragmentation of municipalities in Slovenia. Indisputably, the local self-government is a system that is constantly being built up, but in Slovenia the changes in its territorial organisation have changed into a long-standing process since 1984, when the reform of local self-government was introduced and 147 municipalities were then established, we have reached 210 municipalities in this process. Of these, as the predecessor has already said, more than 50% do not meet the legal requirements. In granting congregation status or in setting up municipalities, we went even below the minimum that was supposed to be an exception and became a rule, of course, the number of people living in the municipality. So we are now in a position to have a municipality of 341 people and the largest municipality, with about 270,000 people. The government estimates that after all these years and the process of setting up municipalities and functioning of municipalities, it is essential to make a serious analysis, an analysis of how these municipalities, we are all talking about, are able to carry out their tasks, how they are able to ensure what they are supposed to provide to their citizens, given that differences in size and other parameters are also important. The result or continuation of this analysis, which is already in preparation and will soon be completed, and on several sides it will shed light on the issue of local self-government, will also be a more fundamental change in the law. We believe that it will have to be opened on several articles and made a number of changes. Of course, no one talks about abolishing the congregation’s decree, but we go the other way, showing good results. As you know, joint municipal administrations are also established. There's a lot of them already, 42 of them already. All municipalities, except the 33s in this country, are already involved in any way in these Joint Municipal Administrations. We are also looking at by forcing projects where more municipalities together achieve a goal that is actually more effective in the wider interest of the region and in a broader development sense. As far as Kopra is concerned, of course it's a special question, but still. In principle, it is in the same story: whether to crush municipalities further by respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we know them [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u105	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u106	However, we believe that there may also be a better solution here to wait for analysis, to wait for solutions that will define the granting of the status of municipalities, which may also define what other funding parameters, and when legislation is adopted, will also solve the problem of Kopra. [[...]] But we know - here I would end - that in Cyprus we are somehow already asking how to implement a constitutional decision that imposes something and people are [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] practically three times against. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. He's got the word. [[...]] Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I note that the work of the National Assembly is carried out through some of its mechanisms, following new mechanisms, following certain procedures that do not have a business basis. I don't know what the problem is that whenever we propose any solution that would certainly lead to better treatment and even better working methods, you are so vehemently rejecting this matter. Three parliamentary groups, 37 members, have taken the initiative to replace the two points at this meeting. And that's what you did with your left hand. I assess that such an approach, when any initiative, any proposal, any procedural proposal is rejected in such a way that it is not voted on, is non-business. Our request was made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure allows for the replacement of the treatment of points at this meeting. And you turned it down. In fact, you have initiated a process that may have consequences for the work of the National Assembly. Such an eminent institution as the National Assembly is supposed to be unable to afford that, despite the advance warning, it takes decisions or treats them in a way that can trigger disputes and corrections and re-work in the National Assembly. We've had cases like this before. Even when you were preparing the decision, it was different than it was on the working body. There was a vote on each of the municipal proposals separately, and you made the decision cumulative. Each role must be dealt with by its own decision, as elsewhere. Like the Employment Service, or anywhere else, or where social assistance is granted. It can't be any different. Any application shall be addressed in an individual procedure. And this proposal for a decision should also be so formulated. What you have proposed to vote in plenary session of the National Assembly is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I think that the leadership of the National Assembly should have the discretion to listen to and resolve positive proposals from opposition parliamentary groups. Such an approach, such a way of working is unacceptable, is simply unacceptable. And I suggest we decide to switch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Before moving to this agenda item, I have clearly and extensively explained why I cannot put your procedural proposal to the vote, because if it were put to a vote and voted, it would be contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I've explained this twice, and if you want, I can explain it to you for the third time and for the fourth time, even though it's not necessary. Dear Mr. Tanko, what can I say, except for what Ronald Reagan said: "Read my lips." Read my lips! I will not put to the vote a proposal that could result in illegality or non-compliance with the law. We're moving on. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u110	Proposals for the establishment of new municipalities or changes in the areas of municipalities and changes in the status of municipalities are topics which, whenever they come into Parliament, have strongly employed all parliamentary groups. Thus, we have also made an intense effort to put in place a position on this point, which is going in this direction. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are convinced that in Slovenia, with the establishment of municipalities 15 years ago, in addition to the establishment of a democratic system at local level, the development of rural areas and many areas in Slovenia has greatly accelerated with the good work of municipalities with the dedication of their mayors, saints and citizens who have taken the municipalities for their own and participated in the construction of their municipality. On the other hand, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that there is also a time when we need to think carefully about the next steps in the development of local self-government, especially in view of the current situation in which we are. The time has come when we can probably find that Slovenian municipalities or small, large, old, new have largely regulated those basic infrastructure needs such as water, roads, sidewalks and basic municipal infrastructure. However, there is a time when it will also be necessary to find the strength to build a very important infrastructure marked by larger projects in the field of municipal infrastructure, economic infrastructure, development infrastructure in the municipality, one more municipality. We are convinced that such projects are largely feasible if municipalities connect, especially if they had a different level of local self-government in Slovenia if they set up provinces. These projects, which I think are our challenges today, I have in mind projects such as the municipal waste dump, the common large water systems, the network of industrial zones, the organisation of secondary schools, technology centres, higher education institutions, the health sector, which according to the Slovenian People's Party, are the challenges that need to be addressed at this time. We are therefore firmly convinced that the previous mandate of the National Assembly made a very big mistake, that the project of the introduction of the provinces did not lead to the end and that, at the end of the day, European funds would be more effective through the provinces. In addition, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that we must consider what opportunities for development will have for the newly established small municipalities, which would start the mandate next year and most likely have missed the opportunity, which only two or three years before the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013 offers the possibility of drawing on European funds for larger joint projects. It is a great fear that such a small congregation, and most of these congregations that have been proposed, are small in number and size, would have a few problems in establishing themselves and establishing the necessary administration to start with quality work. We are convinced that a number of initiatives that are still possible today would die, so it would probably be necessary in a number of cases and very good if the initiators reconsidered the purpose of setting up some congregations. That initiatives will also occur in the future, and I am already sure. In addition, in the history of the formation of Slovenian municipalities we have set minimum conditions for the establishment of municipalities. The basis for establishing our constitution is also a referendum held. In the end, after reviewing all these arguments and in the light of these proposals, we have decided to follow what the Constitutional Court has been saying is that the case of the unconstitutional Koper municipality will be resolved. We are now deciding on the call for a referendum. We know there are two referendums for this area. One proposal made by the initiators of the new municipality of Ankara and another proposed by the Municipality of Koper, which may even be a little cross-cutting with Ankarans. However, both referendums will certainly be the ones that will be able to determine and also show very clearly what is the wish of people in this part of Slovenia, so that after 8 November then it will be easier to determine how to form it in the future. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The Municipality of Koper. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the views of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u112	Your Honor! At the beginning of today's session, I was actually very surprised and disappointed at the way it was predicted that point 18 of A and point B would be dealt with and how some strange acrobatics would be done. I hope that, during this time, there has been an agreement to deal with both subparagraphs, namely point A and point B, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Today, we are discussing whether or not we will please the groups empowered under the Constitution and the law to initiate a procedure to define the referendum area and decisions, and on this basis to decide whether they want to live within a framework covered by an area to become a future municipality. Of course, they must meet all the legal requirements. Today, we do not decide on the establishment of congregations, as many have thought, and as I hear in the halls, we decide today that those who have expressed their will and who meet the legal conditions should say go to the referendum, say what you really expect, and on this basis the procedure for establishing the congregation is just running out. Today we are not establishing congregations, Mr Kontič, this is the way we are doing it, but we are signing a referendum. And I would not like to see, like four years ago, when the National Assembly rejected the proposals made by some of the candidates to which the Administrative Court, without the National Assembly, has provided for a referendum under less fulfilled conditions than in these cases, which we are now talking about. The referendum was called for and congregations were formed. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly must, by a number of decisions, take a few decisions by the Administrative Court and, of course, also in accordance with the law, do what is in it. This is to define the initiative and decide on the decision on the agenda. As is always synonymous with the Liberal Democracy and the rule, when it comes to rights when it comes to very clear conditions, we cannot and will not arbitrarily decide whether or not to a referendum, and consequently if the referendum is positive and there will be a proposal for the establishment of a congregation not to be clarified, as we say. We have no right and we will not take it to say: you meet the conditions, so says the Government, this also says the mother labour body to say now at the National Assembly that you should not go to the referendum. The government says: We do not support the establishment of municipalities, but we find that some of these proposals meet the legal requirements. Or after the 15th or 15th of Article. The Law on Local Self-Government has changed many times and now we have a situation where some of the proposals on the table can be classified as peaceful souls among those referred to in Article 15a that meet the conditions. Alone and members of the Liberal Democracy in previous mandates have never been inclined to not know any finesse and allocation of funds to smaller organisational units, including state-owned areas, which were usually the wishes of individual local communities, to allow better conditions with the municipality, but simply because we thought we would build local self-government until the end, from the start of the first elections in 1994 to the introduction of regions and more. We're still counting on that to happen. We expect the government to come with a built-in law on local self-government, as well as with a law on the financing of municipalities, and some other things that are part of this system, and to round it up. At this point, we support proposals that are on the agenda, which meet the conditions. But once again, as it is said, we determine whether we will allow those who have proposed this to fulfil their constitutional right or not. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] This decree has been backed up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli will set up the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Nationalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. The position of the Italian National Community until the possible vaccination of the Municipality of Koper remains negative for several well-founded and repeated reasons, which are very simple. In fact, any vaccination of Kopra by the establishment of new municipalities would lead to an organisational and opposing vaccination of the already weak national community. It is also an argument that reinforces these reasons, the absence of a clear concept of regionalisation and thus the clear position of the national communities in the region in which the national community is to be included. In this case, I fully support the Government's position on this issue. And the truth of the heart, above these initiatives, as far as Koper is concerned, hangs some strange atmosphere of the use of the majority in Parliament against the majority in some municipal world, regardless of the colors. So there's an atmosphere of conjecture for some congregational leadership. And this does not seem to me legally justified and sufficiently serious reason for starting a vaccination of any congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will explain the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u116	Hello again. We are betting on a strong local government that allows for the highest level of direct participation in decision-making processes and is an important segment of social development. Our aim is to ensure that municipal and other forms of organisation of local communities are confirmed and implemented by attracting the widest possible range of people, their interests, their cooperation and their financial resources to the decision-making and implementation. From a territorial and functional point of view, the reform of local self-government in Slovenia went too far, from one extreme to another. From the largest to the smallest, and from the state powers overloaded to the strongly tempted congregations. Over-centralisation took place at those levels formerly managed by the municipalities. The principle of subsidiarity, which ensures that public affairs are managed at the level at which they can be handled more effectively, more in accordance with the specific circumstances, more efficiently and more cost-effectively and as close as possible to people, is not respected. This is one of the reasons for the lack of effective functioning of the entire state regime. The local self-government is a constitutional category in Slovenia, but Slovenia remains the most centralised country in the EU despite the formation of municipalities. The amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia opened the possibility of establishing the provinces in 2006. The call for a referendum is the first step towards establishing a new congregation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we oppose the further fragmentation of the municipalities and therefore oppose the call for a referendum. It would be a purely ordinary misdirection and deceiving to insist, at this moment, in the Group of Social Democrats, that people should listen and seek the will of their people, and that when people say yes or no, they would decide on their position, which is already clear to me today. This is that we are against further fragmentation of the congregations. This would not be fair to those we wish to ask about their will at the referendum. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats in the vast majority, we also oppose the call for referendums. We have written down in the Law on Community Financing that this law calls and encourages further fragmentation. This legislation will need to be amended. I think that in Slovenia, too, the time has come when it is necessary to start thinking that some of the municipalities will also begin to connect, that we will motivate and reward this integration, also because of what has already been found today in the debate that the local communities have essentially done the tasks they wanted to perform, municipal infrastructure and so on, to a good extent. However, there remain the functions of municipalities for which they find that they themselves cannot fulfil them and that there is a need for integration in the wider local community. So certain legal changes will be necessary. The assessment that we have established in the past municipalities that did not meet the criteria, the basic, 5,000 people - and these municipalities are functioning today, many of them also functioning well - cannot be the reason that we continue to do so in the future. Therefore, as I have already said, we will vote in the Group of Social Democrats, at least in the majority, against the fact that the referendums in the areas envisaged to be signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be represented by Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u118	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President, representatives and representatives of the Ministry! The Republic of Slovenia ratified the European Charter on Local Self-Government in 1996, which states that the signed members will take into account that local authorities are one of the main foundations of any democratic regime. That the right of citizens to participate in public affairs is one of the democratic principles common to all Member States of the Council of Europe. That they are convinced that this right can be exercised as directly as possible at local level. That they are convinced that the existence of local authorities with actual tasks can ensure an administration that is effective and at the same time close to the citizens. They are aware that the protection and re-implementation of local self-government in various European countries are an important contribution to the construction of Europe in accordance with the principles of democracy and the decentralisation of power. The Republic of Slovenia has so far established 210 municipalities to which citizens have come in one way or another. Some with the right to a referendum, including through the Constitutional Court or the National Assembly, confirmed the municipality despite the negative result at the referendum. In order not to take too many initiatives to establish new municipalities, the law introduced a limit of 5000 people in Article 13 as a legislator's wish that the decentralisation of the state no longer continues and that municipalities are established. However, Article 13a provides for a minimum population of 2000. There was no real will for the development of local self-government, except in the previous term, when the National Assembly confirmed all the proposals that met the minimum condition of the 2000 inhabitants and expressed the will of voters in the referendum. It is now back to old practice when, despite the Government's positive opinion, the Committee on Local Self-Government rejected some of the proposals that meet the requirements of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran, Dekani, Škofija-Croatian-Crvatini, Marezige-Šmarje and Mirna. This initiation of a procedure for the modification of the territory of the Municipality of Koper is also due to the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper, whose decision is not new. We wonder why this has never happened before, why it has not been your will so far. We are convinced that this set includes proposals for the initiation of a procedure for the establishment of municipalities, or that we will give the possibility to decide at the referendum also for the municipalities of Loče, Fram, Dobrova and Zgornja Polska, which meet the conditions of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, of which the Government has also supported two proposals. We also estimate that the left policy option has never been favoured by the development of local self-government, except when it was in the interest of left-wing political parties, which is sufficiently apparent from today's proposals. Furthermore, I would like to point out that we expected to vote individually on an individual proposal, as was the case with the working body, because it would be right to consider each proposal individually whether it provides the conditions or not. I think that this is a case that has not been in practice so far and that all these applicants deserve to be given the opportunity to have their citizens decide at the referendum whether they are in favour of the congregation or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. The desire for new municipalities and the related initiatives to establish ever-new and new municipalities have been a constant of all the mandates of the National Assembly since the introduction of local self-government at the end of 1994, and the result, despite a number of changes, is still inadequate legislation in this area and a fundamental mistake that the constitutional right to local self-government is equal to the right to its own municipality. In doing so, of course, we are not prepared to consider developments elsewhere in Europe, where the opposite processes are under way, whether it be in the nearby Bavarian or Denmark, which has in recent years carried out a fundamental reform and reduced the number of municipalities and the number of regions by 3 or more, or the requirements of an international monetary fund, which conditionalises its arrangements in the Balkans with fundamental reforms in the field of local self-government, both the number of municipalities and the number of regional units, whether in Serbia or Croatia. Also, the Council of Europe Commission's 2001 review of the situation in the field of local self-government in our country, which particularly draws attention to the workable and incompetent municipalities in terms of equal competence, regardless of their size or potency, has not yet responded adequately. However, it is not possible to overlook the growing domestic knowledge and to point out that 110 existing municipalities do not meet the minimum legal requirement on the number of people, that excessive fragmentation in the field of local self-government has a negative impact on the successful absorption of European funds, on an inadequate system of financing, which, in particular, has become increasingly autonomous and increasingly dependent on the state budget or has changed into a system for the distribution of state budget resources rather than an autonomous system of financing local self-government, in accordance with the criteria of the European Charter for Local Self-Government, where dependence on state-owned mangers is more an exception than a rule. That an inadequate position of municipal municipalities is that the undefined position of municipalities which are not urban but perform a number of tasks of wider importance, that the unresolved issue of the second level of local self-government is that there is an inadequacy and a definitive lack of delimitation of powers between the State and local self-government and, last but not least, inadequate and ineffective control of the system of operation of local self-government. It calls for all of this and calls for serious consideration of the situation in the field of local self-government and appropriate measures, in particular in the current acute situation of the economic and financial crisis. In view of the above, it is not possible to support further fragmentation in the field of local communities, and any further fragmentation is not in the function of strengthening local self-government and even less in the function of mobilising European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The opinion of the DeSUS Group on the decision on the decision of the Referendum Areas to set up or extend new municipalities is as follows. I think that we are united and that we do not need to look at the developed European countries, which are just ahead of us in this respect of the development of local self-government. They are currently undergoing processes that are just the opposite and the opposite of what we want to do here in Slovenia. We see that practice has shown that the fragmentation of local self-government in many ways is a very bad solution. We do not need to look at this in Europe, we can look at it in our own eyes and put it under the glimmer of local self-government, especially those congregations that are aware that they themselves are not capable of performing not only original tasks but also their work. After some inertia, these congregations join together into joint congregational bodies, thus coping with all these problems in a more favorable and successful manner. And that is probably what should be in mind and before the eyes of all the proposers and protagonists of this decree to extend the referendum areas to new congregations or to extend them. However, despite the fact that it is clear that, last but not least, the opinion of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and our programme is aimed at putting an end to this congregation, because we are talking today about two hundred and ten municipalities, some of them do not meet the conditions, and some of them, besides causing some additional costs, do not perform all these tasks, are not able to carry out calls and obtain European funds. Not only is our client's programme aimed at fragmentation, but the government's opinion that we should stop crushing municipalities into smaller parts, regardless, is in fact a different opinion in the parliamentary group, so I cannot provide a single vote either "for" or "against" this decision. However, it seems important to me that, at the time of addressing this area, we see in the end only the solution in stopping the process for the time being, the analysis, as the Secretary of State said, of which municipalities are capable of carrying out their tasks and in this light continue to set a clear course for the development of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, so we will proceed today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th paragraph of the agenda or depending on the length of the College meeting when you are informed of the exact hour. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 18b point of the agenda, this is on the exploratory proposal for a conclusion that the individual areas do not meet the conditions for establishing a municipality in the context of changing its area and amending the status of the municipality. The draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I give the floor to Mr Willie Trofenik, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Since all that was essential in the introduction to point 18(a) or the previous point, I would like to point out here only once again that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Local Self-Government, the proposals for which the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development generally considered that they met the conditions covered by the proposal for a decree. However, proposals for which the majority opinion was that they did not comply with the conditions laid down by law are covered by the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Government have not applied to this point and the views of the groups are therefore presented. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. At this point, it has been found several times today that there has been a violation of the rules of procedure, legislation, and I believe that constitutional rights or decisions of the Constitutional Court have also occurred. This finding was made out of both opposition and positional types. Mr President, we need to take a decision or point out that, knowingly, some, as well as parts of the leadership of the National Assembly, are adopting legislation and violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The package vote on the evident proposals that meet the conditions to be put in a package with all municipalities is a flagrant violation of the legislation and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that we vote on the decision to force the National Assembly to vote on an illegal proposal which is contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision and that it seeks to further block our judicial system, because it is clear that these municipalities, these communities, which will thus be rejected, will go to the Administrative Court. The Government wants to block the Administrative and, consequently, the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, prior to his arrival at the 18th item on the agenda, the President of the National Assembly explained the way in which these two points, 18a and 18b, were dealt with and decided. It is not possible to change this decision every half hour, nor to make the same procedural proposals. This proposal of yours was not procedural either, but it was substantive. Allow us to move on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovich has the floor of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u128	As we have already said, the area of local self-government is never a twisted story. According to the Slovenian People's Party, there are several problems in this Decision below 18.b. For we have proposals that by law do not meet the conditions, both for the establishment of congregations and for the establishment of city congregations listed. From the previous debate, the Slovenian People's Party's position is that there is one such crucial period in Slovenia where there is actually a lack of development agents in the Slovenian space and in some ways Slovenia today reaps the results of one bold policy of the organisation of local self-government from the 1970s when the so-called polycentric development was highlighted in Slovenia. And given that we have already stated our position in the setting up of municipalities, we would like to stress here, in particular, what was very evident also at the meeting of the 27 European States' local self-government committees, together with the European Parliament's parent committee, which I have also attended, which has made very clear and has provided guidance, guidance in the preparation of a new financial perspective, where there are actually evident problems at the organisation of local self-government and in the development of countries. It was found that the European problem is the concentration of the population in large cities, that the European problem of depopulation is the real reduction of the rural population, that the European problem, which is more evident than we do, is also the ageing of the rural population, that the daily migration of the population from rural areas to large centres is a very big problem and that it is necessary to find answers to the organisation of local self-government. And the guidelines, the reflections presented at this prized meeting go in this direction, as they go in this point 18.b., to suggest that in some way the opportunity and role in the development of the countries so-called'small city' be given to smaller cities, which already have the power to make a gravitational area around which the population, citizens and citizens of one municipality, more municipalities, could do most of their needs, which they have for both local self-government, quality of life, right to work, right to sports participation, cultural participation and so on. And given what I have already mentioned, we think even more in the Slovenian People's Party that in the previous term mistakes were made not to establish a province that could take on this role, but the experiment given by the cities, the municipalities of Piran, Ravne na Koroškem, Krška, Domžale, Radovljica, Idrija, Jesenice, Kamnik, Škofja Loka, Brežice, in 2006 was perhaps a suitable response to the possibility that such cities would then be given the opportunity, at least some symbolic recognition, because, as we know, in the financial sense of some effect for such municipalities, if they become urban municipalities, I am sure that the founders of the development of local self-government in Slovenia will then, that the cities of Mari, who are listed here, will probably still have something in Slovenia, which could be judged by such municipalities, and that they will be the parks of local self-government in Slovenia, that they will not happen as well as well, that they do, that they will not happen, that they will not happen, that they will not, that they will not happen to do, that they will not happen, that they will not, they will not, they will not take part, they will not, they will not, and they will probably do, they will not, they will not, they will have to the realising, they will not, they will not, they will not, they will not, they will not be, they will not, they will not, they will not, they will not, they will be in Slovenia, they will be in Slovenia, they will not be in Slovenia, they will be in Slovenia, they will not be in Slovenia, they will not in Slovenia. Therefore, we think that it is also a bit strange from the procedural point of view, as the rest of the colleagues have been so excited to point out that these matters are united in a joint vote. I am also firmly convinced, and in the Slovenian People's Party we share this view that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should now have its own view of the development of Slovenia and, in our belief at this city level, between the country and the municipalities, find those centres where major projects could also be found, the great challenges of this time, which I have already listed, have been realized. Such an attempt to overcome such attempts [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Also, through the capital law, it is necessary to give some status to the city, and I think at another level it should do something about it. [[...]] If this is not yet visible today, it will certainly be recognized in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and to our coworkers and to all of us. Today we are faced with an important problem and a dilemma, and above all we are prisoners of a story that we are already getting a beard when Members of Parliament in the past did not respect the laws we have adopted ourselves. And it is seen in a number of practical cases that this is a success story in some municipalities, and in some other cases, particularly with regard to the financing of municipalities, this insurmountable problem is causing us. The Law on Local Self-Government lays down the conditions for the establishment of municipalities to be fully met by the proposed area of the new municipality. One of them is the number of inhabitants. The fact is that more than half of the municipalities that have been established do not meet the basic basic condition, which is 5,000 inhabitants. At the same time, according to differences in the size of the congregations, there are also major qualitative differences between them. The question therefore arises whether all citizens have equal access to all public services or the exercise of rights. Another question is also raised as to how to end the process of establishing new congregations. In our view, the only correct response to the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government is that meeting the exceptional conditions that allow the establishment of municipalities from 2000 to 5000 inhabitants has always been interpreted very widely. However, the exception has become a rule in practice and even this exception has been repeatedly violated. The Government's opinion on the establishment of municipalities remains within the framework of the existing legislation and the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which identifies local self-government as the right and also the ability of local authorities to regulate and manage an essential part of public affairs within the framework of their tasks for the benefit of their population. The government estimates that the implementation of this provision has already become questionable in many Slovene municipalities. Why? The revenue of the congregations in the form of funding has been increasing all these years. But it's the first time this year, or it's the first time they'll fall. A further decline due to the public economic situation is expected in 2011. Revenue is falling enormously, spending is increasing most on the social side, on which the municipality is obliged to provide funds for its citizens, and on the other hand funds need to be provided to carry out the tasks of the municipalities, and there are fewer and fewer resources for development tasks, investments, schools, kindergartens and more. The competence of us, the National Assembly, is the final decision on the establishment of small municipalities, but this process should certainly be restricted as soon as possible, halted, in particular with legislative changes aimed at promoting all those activities that can contribute to the integration or reunification of small municipalities. In many municipalities, including large municipalities, in order to make business more rational, we are already establishing joint authorities in the field of red tape, in the field of inspections, especially because we see the advantage of the state co-financing these tasks with 50%. The right to local self-government does not mean, at the same time, the right to its own congregation. The fact is that more than half of Slovenian municipalities do not meet the legal condition of 5,000 and are among the so-called marriage exceptions. It is this very small and inept capacity of many municipalities that also prevents the successful use of European funds. Smallness and incompetence make it impossible for many municipalities to perform exactly the functions that caused them. And here is the key to the final answer, the final question, how to decide how to vote. This is not a customer question, it is not a question at the principle level, it is a question for each of us who will press the key. In the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have a completely legitimate and legitimate view of Members of Parliament, a variety of experiences, as we come from different backgrounds, so we will also decide in today's vote as it is necessary and right, in accordance with our conviction and conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u132	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, today we will vote on pears and apples together at this point. At this point, it is a group of municipalities which have taken the initiative to initiate the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and another group of municipalities which have taken the initiative to initiate the procedure for the establishment of a municipal municipality. The first set also includes two proposals for the establishment of the Municipality of Loče and Fram, which the Government considers to fulfil all the conditions under Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, and unfortunately are not included in the previous item because the applicant is unlikely to be the right one. Today, however, this point also showed what I mentioned at the previous point, that it is more important what position some political option has towards the establishment of municipalities. Our view is that we should vote separately, if not for each congregation in particular, but at least for these groups. We cannot put together proposals for the establishment of municipal municipalities that do not meet the conditions of Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government, and we also join our parliamentary group in not voting for the establishment or referendums in these areas. We believe that in setting up municipalities, four municipalities, Ločje, Fram, Dobrova and Zgornja Polska have, with the amendment proposed by the proposer, that part of the settlement be excluded from the proposal, as well as all the conditions under Articles 13 and 13a for the establishment of municipalities. That is why we will oppose this proposal and protest that this is the way to resolve such important policies as the introduction or development of local self-government in our country. However, the Government representative explains why such assessments are against the division of local communities into new municipalities in order to reduce funding for municipalities in order to need this writer to negotiate the average at the Ministry of Finance, because we have not come up with these analyses ourselves. I think we could get some more money for the congregations. But there can be no reason why the municipalities do not continue to establish themselves because they also have this right from the European Lithium on local self-government, but it just needs to be interpreted. To all those who have been reminded here of the reverse process in Europe, there are 50 years of local self-government and they have everything that has not yet been built with us since the basic municipal infrastructure has already been built. And since there's been an upgrade, they're merging. When we settle this with us by the year when the European Community country promised to build municipal infrastructure, it is likely that when this is built, then we will have a reverse process. But it's a long way to go. I think we need to give those people who want their own congregation the first time they decide whether to do it or not at the referendum, and then we will decide whether to give the congregation or not. I think that before some intervention in the Law on Local Self-Government, an analysis should be made of how much these small municipalities have increased their assets at that time and how much they have received from the State of resources, how much they have built it with their own resources and with their own work. I think that, after this thorough analysis, there would be different opinions as well. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] some clients. [[...]] We will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Since it is a decision or support decision or not, it is a very short answer. We will support the decision, which is logically the result of the continuation of previous positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u136	Explanation, an extensive one was given earlier in the consideration of the previous point. The same as before, I can say that we are different opinions in the Group of Members, and that is why everyone will vote in his/her own conscience and conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, so the decision on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the half-hour meeting will be held at 15.20 minutes unless the meeting of the College is extended. I inform you, especially the leaders of the parliamentary groups, that it will be immediately after the end or after the adjournment of the meeting, and is expected to be at 3 p.m., the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. We can plan that it won't last more than half an hour. Please be sure to monitor through the monitors when the session will continue and certainly not before 3:20 p.m. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u138	Dear Members and Members! I inform you that the meeting of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly is still under way. The president couldn't predict when the meeting would be over. I've been there myself so far, so I'd say we're back together at 3:45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u139	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposed decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We are gathered and able to proceed to the vote. We continue with the adjourned 4th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Business on the Market, under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the e-commerce law on the market. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 in favour, none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and give the floor to Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u140	I also voted at this point with my hands. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, within the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading and the decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. In doing so, I would point out that if the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD, the Zares Group, DeSUS, the LDS Group of Deputies will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 51.) [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment to Article 6a irrelevant, sorry, leaving paragraph 6a in the vote, I apologize. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LSD to Article 3. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6a. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 19. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] The amendment was accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 6a and Article 3. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. I predict that we will table an amendment to Article 3 in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I interrupt this item on the agenda, which we will continue when the votes are closed on the other agenda items. We continue with the 18th stop of the agenda - namely the proposal for a decision on the schedule of the referendum and the definition of the referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities, in view of the modification of their areas. Before I go to the vote on the ruling, I would like to inform you that points 18a and 18b are connected. If the motion for a decision is not adopted, the proposal for a decision under point 18.b will become irrelevant. In this case, the non-admission of the decree would mean that the assembly, pursuant to Article 14a of the Law on Local Self-Government, found that none of the motions for a decree listed a proposal for the establishment of a municipality or a change in its territory met the legal conditions. In this case, the expert services of the assembly will draw up a new proposal for a decision including proposals for the establishment of new municipalities or for the modification of their areas under the unadopted motion for a decree under point 18.a, which you will receive on the bench. The National Assembly will vote on a new proposal for a decision after the end of today's vote. Procedurally, please, Tone Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u143	Mr President, please explain on what basis you have proposed such a decision. There is no such decision under the Rules of Procedure, and this instruction, which you sent to the groups of Members this morning, is not correct nor in relation to the Law on Local Self-Government, nor does it apply to any point of the Rules of Procedure and is over all the rules. If the motion for a decision is put to the vote, it is immediately clear if the procedure is closed and no further operations are required to merge points a and b below point 18. Please act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and indicate which article of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. I believe that your explanation at the National Assembly is the last, if not, I suggest, and I've been talking about it this morning, no consultation, no activity in this direction to clarify it. If you act contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you will, but this is a bad practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u144	I've already explained that. The professional services have explained this. Once again, it is not only the Rules of Procedure, but also the Law on Local Self-Government. If the proposal is not adopted, then a decision must be adopted, a rejection decision and we have also proposed that. That's what we're gonna do. I believe different explanations are possible. I think this explanation I gave is correct. But I allow other people to have different explanations if you want, and I'll just stay. We're moving on to decision-making. Please, Jože Tanko, would you like to explain your voice? Explanation of voice. Excuse me? Procedural. Please. Thank you so much for saying that. Today, in fact, we have been working all day to address this point whether the way of dealing with this point is appropriate, correct or not. And also your explanation is not on the arguments, nor was the rejection of the proposals of the SDS, SNS and SLS sentinel groups incorrect because it was not substantiated and not justified. And given that you have now stated that you think the proposal is what you said it is, it shows that you are not sure of your decision. At the very least, prior to consideration of this point, a reference by the College, as we have suggested, or a change in the order in which the items are dealt with or a reference, would be to clarify at the consultation how these points are dealt with and what would be appropriate, the proper order of treatment of this point. I do not think it is appropriate for you to insist so strongly on well-intentioned proposals, not only on opposition parliamentary groups, including one of the coalition parties and thus on your authority, with your ability to give or not to vote, but this is an abuse because you do not put to the vote, in fact you are forcing the National Assembly to deal with points in a way that is not business and should not happen to this Assembly. I suggest that you be more sensitive to the proposals that we make in the parliamentary groups, more sensitive, that you really do your best, and also all the others, use the other instruments that are available to you, or that we call on the College to do so, or devote them to the informal consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, where we would agree on how to deal with a particular matter that is highly likely to be disputed. In our opinion, however, it is certainly controversial. I therefore propose procedurally that we postpone the decision on this point to one of the following meetings so that these dilemmas, which occurred today at the plenary session and also yesterday, when we gave you the heads of the opposition parties' parliamentary groups a letter to replace the order for these dilemmas to be first clarified. I therefore propose procedurally that we decide on this point at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u145	Just a minute. In accordance with Article 74, you have proposed that the debate on the decision on the matter under consideration be submitted to one of the following meetings: this proposal shall be decided by the National Assembly. Of course, I will put this proposal to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal of the SDS Group to postpone the decision on 18a and 18b points to one of the following meetings? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that this proposal has not been adopted. We're moving on to decision-making. Do we vote please? [[...]] An explanation of the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I also addressed my own request to the President of the National Assembly yesterday for a single vote on individual municipalities, not as much as it is now prepared. If it were possible for a congregation to explain its voice, there would have been much more to say, but there was no such possibility. Therefore, with what seems to me to be completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in history, since the National Assembly has established congregations, this is the first time that we have voted in this way. Although the Left Government has always tried to do everything to destroy small congregations, destroy successful middle congregations, and thank God that its mandate expires before it succeeds. And I'm sure it will be this way. Today, the only investments that are still underway are investments by local communities, by municipalities, because of, of course, there is also a lot of private money, private money by individuals and individuals, where both infrastructure and other facilities are being built for better quality of life. It is fair and proper that all citizens and citizens should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves at the referendum on the establishment of municipalities, and that where they choose to do so they will also be given the opportunity. It is a shame and sad thing that after so many years, you do not realize that this is one of the most positive effects of our country's development.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u147	An explanation of the voice in your own name? In his name he has the word Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Otherwise, I would explain my vote at the next decision where you want to prevent the invitation to tender. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u149	Please, Mr Jerovšek, then, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u150	No, no. I'd like to ask you a referendum question. However, because it is very clear what the conduct is and what the plots of the ruling majority are to prevent this decision from coming at all so far as to be able to talk about the next decision, where I am a candidate for two municipalities, for Fram and Upper Poland, I must say that something so unheard of, so obvious, violations of the legislation and the constitution that we are experiencing at this point in Parliament, I have not experienced in 14 years. And, Mr President, it is a great shame for you, too, that you have accepted the octrolation of such solutions, which are non-profit, illegal and also unconstitutional. I think you are consciously working to block our judicial branch as much as possible, because these proposals will go to the Constitutional Court, where they will, of course, succeed, because I am counting on the principle of equality before the law to be a legal principle in this country. And the evasiveness of the ruling majority to determine up to each individual proposal is irrelevant. We know that most of the proposals meet the criteria and conditions for the establishment of municipalities. And if the same laws made certain congregations in the past, the Constitutional Court will clearly recognize this in the final instance. I have so much faith in our Constitutional Court. Some of you have been smothering yourself a lot in the last few days to the Constitutional Court, but you are in violation of the basic law. That is why, of course, I will support this proposal, but for another, which you no longer intend to put to the vote, I will not be able to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 39, for 33. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. This concludes the 18th point. We continue with the interrupt 18b item of the agenda - with the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for setting up a municipality or for changing its territory and for changing the status of the municipality. Peace in the hall, please! We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, on behalf of the groups of Members. Anybody want to do it on behalf of the MPs? Please, on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. On this point, as has been said before, in the position of the Group of Members, we vote by one vote on two different matters. One is against the invitation to a referendum on the establishment of municipalities, for which we have six or five proposals here, this congregation should not have conditions under Article 13 for the establishment of municipalities. And together with proposals for the establishment of municipal municipalities, which under Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government do not have the conditions for the establishment of municipal municipalities. We did not vote on such a proposal on our home labour body, we voted on each of them individually, so we believe that we should vote here, as on our home labour body, because if someone disagrees with the establishment of city municipalities, we can agree with the establishment of ordinary municipalities or vice versa. And I don't think that's in line with the procedure or the practice in the National Assembly, although I haven't long. We can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u153	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u154	we cannot give together the municipal congregation and the ordinary congregation or sign a referendum for one or the other. [[...]] We also believe that of these proposals for the establishment of municipalities, four out of five proposals comply with Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. According to the number of people in the three municipalities, there are a significantly higher number of people than the municipality of Mirna, which we have confirmed in the previous paragraph to sign a referendum. On all other items or conditions for the establishment of the congregation, however, they have the same conditions as the municipality of Mirna, so I think that should be terminated here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u155	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u156	and the decision to repeat at the next meeting, as it was at the parent body. [[....]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u157	May I have peace in the hall, please? Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on behalf of Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! What was said before me is absolutely true and such absurdity, the fourth term I am in the National Assembly and the fourth time I take part in deciding on the referendum invitation, because in this case we are not yet establishing the congregation, but we are calling for referendums that citizens and citizens will decide for themselves in the area of how they want to live, if they want to live better, what the ruling coalition did not foresee in the previous vote, but it happened only because of this. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u159	Pukšič, let me explain your voice to the 18b point without press comments, what the opposition wanted. Please, well, we'll read this in the papers another day.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u160	But if we feel on our own what the coalition does, stupidity. And thank God that in the National Assembly we also have a huge army of mayors who know what this means, development in individual parts of our country, because if it were not, then we would be at a significantly, significantly lower level of citizens and citizens in remote areas. With this proposal for "non-inclusion" of the referendum invitation, given that the Government has given a positive opinion on some proposals, we will, if such a decision is taken, open the way to the Administrative Court, the Administrative Court will, I tell you today, decide as it has already decided four years ago, and a call will also come for these municipalities to be able to decide for themselves and the left will not be able to decide here, but will be able to do so. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I will vote against this proposal. For on matters which are an exhibition category and which refer to the constitutional principle of equality before the law, I cannot vote for falsehood and for lies. The decision that is proposed is not real is a lie, for it notes that some areas do not meet the conditions for setting up a congregation. These are also the areas of the proposed municipalities of Fram, Zgornja Polskava. By what you force us here at today's assembly, it is voting and stating whether we are Members for the truth or whether we are for a lie and a lie. And of course, I will very clearly define myself as the truth, so I am obliged, as well as others, to vote against it. The historical responsibility, Mr President, is to force us into constitutional categories, Members, that they will have to vote for the untruth. And with that, you'll probably make history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We're voting. I'm breaking up, please, Mr. Tanko. An explanation of the voice? Please report to me a little earlier next time. Please. I'll make an application. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation on its own behalf. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Someone mentioned earlier that this is a coalition conspiracy, and I think it's one of the identifying signs of common sense in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u165	No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u166	With full faith that we have in the past made fatal mistakes that today weaken developmental power in this country, not only do I think that there are enough municipalities in Slovenia, but I think there are too many. Since I hope that we will be able to achieve the political will to reduce this number, to strengthen the development potential of this country in this way too, I will vote in favour today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Franz Bogovich, explanation of voice. Of course, no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u168	I'll hold on to the controversy. I say this: we will not participate in this vote alone and also our colleagues. We're going to press the quorum, because we actually think that, as has already been said today, the pears and apples are mixed. In one part, I think that this part, which concerns the municipalities in particular, should be supported, precisely from these aspects, which Mr Frangež has just mentioned. I will not negate, I will say that an environment with better development opportunities should be established and an opportunity should be given. In the meantime, such congregations, which I know very well, which have established two colleges in the meantime, have provided conditions for the development of entrepreneurship in business zones and would also be at the side of any of those so far past the statutory designations of the appointed city hall. And since this confusion is in today's vote, we will press the quorum in this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also think that there is one great confusion, and if we just look at the Koper Congregation, where it was purely out of "snarling" relations with the congregation of Ankaran, and the additional three congregations were here today at the vote, it is a complete nonsense to continue with all of this, because, unfortunately, they do not have the minimum conditions for them to really be congregations, but they are the political fabric that goes to the rave of the Ankaran congregation, with which our mayor is cremated to death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Jože Tanko, also without controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dear President, I hope you don't doubt me. I will vote against this motion for a decision, because in this motion for rejection there are municipalities that do not meet the conditions or proposals that do not meet the conditions and also the proposals of the municipalities that meet all the legal conditions, as in the previous vote or decision we have adopted. Once again, it is proved that the coalition does not have the criteria to act doublely, not to act on the basis of the law, but on the basis of some other preferences. Such conduct is inconsistent, even irrational. Unfortunately, the warnings we gave in the SDS and SLS groups were not taken into account. We have proposed a preliminary examination of this point in order to clear up these matters so that those proposals that meet the conditions are eliminated and placed in the decree. Unfortunately, the will of the President of the National Assembly and the coalition majority were not so. In short, the chaos we are witnessing when things are not taken into account is not only the work of this National Assembly; and I am also joining the findings of colleagues from the Coalition Group, it is chaos, and this chaos is not only in this National Assembly, but also in the executive branch. And unfortunately, in this way, it will be difficult for this ship, called Slovenia, to lead to some better and better solutions. In short. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Vito Rožej, also without controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u174	One of our constitutional duties as Members is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u175	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u176	that we are the messengers of all the people. [[...]] Few people in this room are aware of that. I think that this conclusion, which is now before us, would of course express the truth, even the previous one is in some way, but of course we have it all wrong or everyone else understands it. I am sure that the municipality in Slovenia is too. It does not seem to me that the small congregation, the new congregation, is already a marriage of progress and so on. However, I am sure that the new number of municipalities has provided for the looting, not only of the state budget, of the state budget, but also of the appropriate spending of all the costs that the introduction of the municipal administration allows, and also of the perfidial indications, such as local legislation, that two centres in the municipality must be connected by the state road. This also applies, of course, to congregations that are physically from the nearest state road five miles [5 km] away, and then the country leads the road to this congregation for its money. This is already one of those ways when it comes to playing the big majority of other citizens, at the expense of one small one, because of certain interests. I do not want to support the establishment of new municipalities, nor do I, because I see that new municipalities are also being set up to put another small municipality as a suitable candidate for mayor in elections. And there are even more similar things, which, of course, this country does not deserve, nor does it need, and citizens could live better, even in larger congregations, if they could only agree among themselves. The events of the National Assembly show us how difficult this is. Even if we are all in our own local and half private interests, I cannot support this as a Member from Ljubljana, because I cannot see how this country, on one side of Ljubljana, can steal millions with its left hand, so that it can then sit down in small municipalities and build state roads, establish new municipal administrations and do any other similar costs that are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u177	I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Tinker Bell. Just like the others, no controversy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u178	Your Honor! There is a need to respect the legislation and therefore it is necessary to vote against it, and I will do so myself. As far as the looting of the congregations is concerned. It has been said that the municipalities are robbing the state budget, one in this country certainly applies, especially after the events of last year. Municipality of Ljubljana is in charge of every population [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u179	Mr. Blackach, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u180	For 760 euros per head. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u181	Please don't compromise.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u182	Which is four times the national average. The Ljubljana Municipality is in charge of over 100 million euros this year, and the state budget will have to be severely robbed if Mr Jankovic wants to get out of these claws. In doing so, the apparently ruling authority is of great help to him. On the other hand, statistics say that since 1995 when the first reform of local self-government was made in the local area of the whole country, more has been done than in previous years, which is logical. Things have come closer to people and those they have in management are managing matters more effectively, more cost-effective than they were in the case of large communities. The activities in this area show that the country as a whole has made significant progress. It is a pity that a step forward has not yet been taken to establish this intermediate level, decentralise matters and thus allow even faster development in this country through regionalisation and regionalisation. This step, unfortunately, you did not follow, despite your ambitions in 2003, when you were in power. And even now, you don't seem to have these ambitions. This is also one of the promises that were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u183	Mr. Chernach, you're embalming.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u184	That is also why we must vote against this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name, just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I have always advocated that the municipality of Idrija be granted the status of the municipal municipality, so in this case I cannot vote otherwise than that I do not agree with the proposal that these municipalities do not meet the conditions for the initiation of the procedure by voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Bogdan Capič has the word to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will explain my vote why I will vote against such a decision as is proposed. Especially because we mix three things within this conclusion. Those who would be granted the status of the municipal municipality, then those who fulfil the conditions under Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government and those which are not established in accordance with Article 139. In one decision, three such different decisions cannot actually be taken. And because it's not possible to accept it, I'm going to go against such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has an explanation for his vote. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is more simple than it seems in this dramatic atmosphere in this Chamber, when we question each other so much, whether she votes in her conscience or she has something in the back or something like that. I've already said a few times about this pay phone, and even today, we don't have a choice. But we really don't have a choice to bow to the will of the applicants, to those who qualify to go to the referendum. What taught us, at least two or three earlier, was the composition of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court, and in the end the Administrative Court, which called a referendum instead of the National Assembly and then established the National Assembly. We did that part. I have a very simple task and a decision on my own. I'm sure of it. I followed the Government's opinion, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Local Self-Government at point a as well as I will at point b. If anything is wrong with this decision, which the Committee on Local Self-Government has prepared for decision at this meeting, then these beneficiaries will seek justice, as they have done years ago. If not, it will, of course, bring about this decision. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision prepared by my mother's working body. I can't, on the basis of what I know, judge for myself whether someone meets or does not meet the conditions. For me, the whole stage, from the submission to the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly on Local Self-Government, is the one on which I can decide and I will therefore vote in favour of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Milan Gumzar. Anyone else wants me to open the application if not. Is there any other desire for this? Then it's just Mr. Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will vote against the decision. Mostly from a simple point of view. Today, when we listened to this debate or for and against it, I came to the realization that in fact there are the greatest evils in this country of ours and the congregations that have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Therefore, as a matter of fact, hereafter [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u193	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u194	I suggest that we establish 11 municipalities in Slovenia and that it develops in the rest of Slovenia, and forget about it, so I will vote against it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members present, 70 votes against 28. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. That's where I end the 18th item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. It's a bill on the ratification of the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no friends to discuss. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Period of the day - This is on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the protocol on the integrated management of coastal areas in the middle of the country. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it is right to explain the voice of the Really Group for a protocol called the Protocol on the Comprehensive Management of Coastal Areas in the Mediterranean, because it is an important instrument for the implementation of the 1976 Convention in the Mediterranean Sea, which gives Slovenia and all States parties the opportunity and also the duty to treat and respect their own shores with due diligence, rationality and legal flexibility. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it means that everything referred to in this Protocol is essentially useful at the level of international law. As you know, our coast is part of a major shopping bay. In this Gulf, processes are under way that severely undermine the quality of life of the inhabitants of this coast and also the quality of our coast. This Protocol and the ratification of the Protocol by other countries bordering Slovenia and dividing the North Adriatic will establish a framework in which it will be easier, through instruments of international law, to protect the shores and prevent those interventions that threaten the quality of this part of the Adriatic region. In particular, this Protocol will be important when the debate on gas terminals takes place, on the wild construction of the coast and on other actions that are problematic in terms of protecting the seashore and the environment. We have no doubt and will vote in favour of this Protocol.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 for, none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On behalf of the European Community and its member states on one side and the Kingdom of Morocco on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE INTERIM AGREEMENT ON THE ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE Ivory Coast ON ONE PARTNER AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE MEMBER STATES ON THE OTHER PARTNER. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, all in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 66 votes in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day - it's on the confirmation of the correction of the official re-examined text of the State Attorney's Office Act. The correction of the official purified text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A correction of the Officially Cleared Text of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office shall be confirmed." We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 63 votes against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the correction of the official purified text of that Act has been confirmed by the National Assembly. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 28. It's on man-loving matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Proposal for a Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appointing a President and members of the National Council for Culture by means of a proposal for a Decision appointing four members of the State Audit Commission, a Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of a President, a Vice-President and members and alternates of the members of the two Boards of Inquiry; a Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia; a Note on the derogations of the two members of the Board of Supervisors of RTV Slovenia; a Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the office of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission; a Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services; a Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of the office of the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on the appointment of the Foreign Policy; A Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Committee for the appointment of a Vice-President and a Vice-President. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. I am moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. We can say that after six months the New Ljubljana Bank has received a director. During this severe economic crisis, it was long without operational leadership, since the former director, who had been politically appointed, was forced to resign because he had granted or ordered Taliban loans or revalued loans. He was probably also the victim of major political battles within the coalition's parliamentary groups. The proposal that we have before us is also burdened to a certain extent by a tycoon story, because the candidate or director, who you probably put on the political line at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank, worked in the world, was the Vice Governor and in the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and he is the National Bank of Slovenia controller or supervisor of business banks. Interestingly, the National Bank, which monitored the granting of Taliban loans, did not detect any specific cases, no weakenings, and now the person who was one of the supervisors of the business banks and who was involved in monitoring the granting of loans to the tycoon, named the director of the largest Slovenian bank that had granted such loans. In addition to the former Governor, Mr Jašovič also took part in the decision to purchase Lehman Brothers bonds, which went bankrupt in September this year and has certainly left a big hole in the Bank of Slovenia even if she has notified bankruptcy claims. A few ten million euros, I'm sure. There was a huge investment of EUR 38 million in first-class bonds, and the investment bank Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and 20, 25 or more million of this money is likely to disappear irrevocably. In short, I would like to draw attention to some duplicity in the conduct of the coalition in certain actions taking place in the Slovenian space. First, we deal politically with those who participated and decided to invest in securities in some other roles through investments, and there has been a weakening of, say, a smaller proportion of the portfolio, such as that of the NEK for 10%, and here the investment loses 60%, 70%, 80%, and there is no process against such persons, no determination of responsibility. Even more, those who participated in such missed investments and did not react in a timely manner, although they probably realized that something was going on in the financial market, on all last days they were professional financiers, were rewarded with new functions, with new services. This former vice-governor and member of the Council of Banka Slovenije received the largest Slovenian bank in management, and the former governor became minister in this government. And I would also suggest to the coalition members, including the government coalition, that it has the same vats to all those involved, by function, with portfolio investments, and that it also introduces procedures against those who have actually caused the loss or loss of funds. Perhaps it would also be wise not to appoint them to such responsible functions. Unfortunately, this is happening, you have double standards, and unfortunately, this can bring nothing good for Slovenia. We will not take part in this vote or we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which it is magnified. Boža Jašovica discharges the duties of Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The discharge shall take effect on the date of adoption of this Decision. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has adopted the proposed decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a President and members of the National Council for Culture, with a proposal for a decision. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Majda Širci Ravnikar, Minister of Culture, for further explanation of the proposal for the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today I know that you are all waiting to get to Maribor as soon as possible, where the celebrated 90th anniversary of the Slovenian National Theatre is celebrated. But that's not the only reason I'm gonna be short. There's another reason. The appointment of the National Council for Culture brings important good and credible names. I have only so much to explain to you that the previous National Council for Culture, which expired a month ago, has a mandate for the highest civil and moral and critical body in the field of culture, a body that monitors, supervises and co-forms cultural policy with this, has worked in the composition of Mr Drago Jančar, Janez Pipan, Mitja Chander, Andrej Jemec, Liljana Stepančič, Dr Renata Selecelj and Miran Zupanič. Since their work was extremely quality, resounding, you yourself know, even in the National Assembly very active when they received the word, we decided to ask them in many consultations whether any of them might have maintained continuity and remained. We invited them to work on our own. With their internal survey or research, they decided that two of them would continue to work, and I think that this is also useful in terms of the fact that this work is well established and has a respectful tradition. The selection of the other members moved somehow during the coverage of certain areas, the breadth and credibility and the authority they have, more or less, there is no doubt here, and also regional representation, although we know that in such matters this is the breadth of the spirit that the proposed members have in the first place. I'd like to ask you to support the members. In many discussions, even with possible different work in the future, they say, even more public, even more supervisory, they have also identified with us and committed themselves to actively not only looking under the fingers, but also to monitoring cultural policy in the broader sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Dusan Kumr to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 16, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, forwarded a decision to the National Assembly proposing to appoint the National Council for Culture in the following composition: Miran Zupanič for the President and members of Mitja Chandra, Meto Hočevar, Dr. Barbara Jaki, Miran Moharja, Dr. Jožet Vogrinc and Matjaž Zupančić. The proposal was also accompanied by explanations and CVs of the proposed candidates. The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture in its Article 16 provides that the National Council for Culture is an independent body that guides the national strategy for culture. The President and 6 members of the Council shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of persons enjoying public reputation for a period of five years and may be reappointed. In the debate on the proposal by the Government for the appointment of a President and 6 members of the National Council for Culture, the members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission expressed different views. Members of the opposition parliamentary groups stressed, in particular, that they do not have any comments on the expertise of the proposed candidates themselves, but that they did not consider the representation of candidates from all over Slovenia to the extent they considered that there was no representative from Maribor, which is the European Capital of Culture, and that not all types of artistic creation were represented; they stressed, in particular, music and amateur activity. Members of coalition parliamentary groups, however, expressed their support for the Government's proposal in the debate, as it is necessary to take into account the legal provision that the Presidents and members of the National Cultural Council are appointed from among the public figures. Given the size of the National Council, the President, six members, is difficult or impossible to meet local criteria. On this basis, the mandate-holder commission supported the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the National Council for Culture by a majority of the votes defined. On the basis of Article 16 of the Law on the Exercise of Public Interest in Culture and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision appointing the National Council for Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister! I think that a strong proposal has been adopted and proposed in the National Assembly at the Mandate-Election Commission. The National Council for Culture is an independent body that guides the national strategy for culture. Another important task is to monitor and assess the impact of cultural policy on cultural development. It is also important to give an opinion on the national programme for culture and annual reports. About his implementation. It deals with proposals for legislation and other cultural regulations and, of course, makes proposals and initiatives to address specific cultural issues. I think that the proponents have done the right thing, that there are some who have new ideas, and above all that work is continuing in this area, which has already been successfully completed. The greatest concerns were, of course, whether regional representation was most appropriate or not. I must say that, of course, all the peasants in the Republic of Slovenia cannot have their representative and candidate, but there are chosen names that enjoy Slovenian, European and international reputations and I am convinced that if they are appreciated in Australia, New York and where else they will be able to see and respect Maribor and within all Slovenian borders. That is why, of course, all those who are proposed will receive the full support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Jože Tanko has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. As has already been said several times today, it is a key body on culture, which has very important tasks to monitor, monitor and co-form cultural policy in the Slovenian space. We have no doubt that these are prominent names that have been proposed. I can guarantee that, but we have some other concerns. I would like to say what concerns our Group has on the basis of a concrete proposal. One of the important areas that is not represented in the National Council for Culture is amateur culture. In particular, in rural areas, as well as in cities, we have a large number of cultural, artistic societies and this culture has not actually been represented in the National Council for Culture several times. This means that those who are not represented are likely to have problems with it as a result; as this is determined by cultural policy, the cultural budget is also allocated; access to resources. Access to resources is probably limited. And we estimate that a large group of people involved in cultural activities are excluded from, or from, sufficient resources to support, cultural policy-making. This is also the case for many societies that are linked to the past, history, ethnography, which ensure the preservation of cultural heritage and so on. It's not just modern societies. The second thing is, there's no one in the music arts. This is, in our view, a significant flaw, after all, a number of years of Slovenian music art has also been successfully promoted in the European space and we estimate that the proposal is not sufficient in this respect to assess that it is appropriate. We also find it inappropriate that it is not in the National Council for Culture, because there is also a cultural policy involved, and I will say, a project of the European Capital of Culture. This is a European project, and despite the fact that Maribor, as a umbrella, has received this project, there is no one from this project, which is part of the National Council for Culture, which means that these projects are, in fact, somehow excluded from cultural policy, particularly in that initial representation. It can be followed and decided on their behalf, but in that right place, and this is the National Council for Culture, these people cannot enforce their opinions or express their opinions. And it's probably one of the biggest shortcomings of this project. And there's something else that's very obvious here. It is a very favoured Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film and Television - AGRFT. Practically half of the composition of the National Council comes from this sphere, from this circle, and I hope that, because this sphere is so strongly represented, at least this film production will finally be produced. We'll get those 20 movies this year, so there'll be 20 movies promised next year. Now, obviously, there is sufficient support in the National Council for Culture for this project and this goal set by the Minister. It will probably not be a problem to find reflections for film production in every budget in Slovenia, even though we are facing a deep crisis and a difficult situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us the appointment of the National Council for Culture. And with one vote, a package. I don't know if we've done that in the past, then it's normal for us to continue. However, that is why I also want to make a statement in this regard, because some of the names here inside are very good, in my opinion, and in fact I am somewhat surprised by the impatience of the Minister of Culture lately, so I hope that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u209	Please, Mr Jerovšek, please, no personal qualifications!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u210	Yeah, you can do that. Now I have to say, some of these [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u211	Disqualification, I apologize to the choir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u212	No, no, no. I was just talking about impatience. I don't think it's disqualification if it's true. Mr. President, you're holding me back. You took one minute from me. Look, I have to say that Miran Zupanič, who is proposed for president, I think he actually celebrated himself as director, and also with his courage that in this Slovenian space, which was so retrogradely oriented, he made the film "Children with Petrička". In this he also expressed his clear attitude towards values, towards a crime that is, in fact, in Slovenia, in some ways, these crimes or the sins he defined himself to by this film are, in Slovenian public space, quite often, spelled out as justified. Of course, in this matter, when we vote in the framework, it is in some way good that it is protected, because I am sure that some of us would otherwise be identified against such a candidate because we have experience in voting and discussing the European Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. I must also say that it is, and I will go back, because Mr Janez Stanovnik once publicly protested over the broadcast of his film on television and probably some are influenced. I must also say that Mitja Chander here is one of the great intellectuals of the Middle Ages. Not only is Beletrine's editor, an essayist and an extremely good thinker and rhetoricalist, who has been very determined in principle lately, but I must say that he has suffered in some way, for Dejan Koshir has also rejected the publication of the letter and the denial as he has to me. With almost the same arguments, I read in a newspaper, otherwise in another newspaper, because there he did not want Jani Virk to publish the work of a critical record. I will remain undecided about this composition, because it also bothers me very much that there is no one on this list who is practically active in the field of culture outside Ljubljana. This is particularly disturbing in this case by the fact that there is no cultural creator from Maribor or from Styria associated with the project of the European Capital of Culture. This shows that this European capital of culture is actually located in Maribor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u213	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u214	Another reason not to define myself, however, is that one of the candidates was very negative about these debates on the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, and very negative about such a resolution, very relativized, in a way, he was impatient with those who expressed the need for such a resolution to be adopted in Slovenia. So this one. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. We're done. We are done with the presentation of the views of Members and Members. I'm closing the debate. Procedural, Mr. Tanko. You Mr. Puksich? You can't, you haven't checked in. You didn't sign up. It was time for your application. You didn't sign up. [[The voice from the hall.]] Yes, there were two registered, one checked out, Mr Jerovšek stayed and also discussed for 5 minutes and 15 seconds. [[..]] Peace in the hall. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I propose that, in the manner you have done in the case of your colleague Jerovska, you do not interfere with the debate of our Members and then prevent them from discussing it. Nothing Jerovšek said in his discussion was such that he could deserve the oral intervention of the chairman or you who are leading this meeting today. I note that, apart from two discussions, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u217	Peace in the hall, please. My friend Yuri, if you'd like to sit down. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u218	Except that there are only a few Members in our Group of Members that you do not intervene against. In fact, anyone who speaks to the word, intervenes, interrupts the debate and somehow errs, speaks up. I don't think that's right. Be equal to everyone, let people say what they think, they are probably behind the words, and in the way that this is happening lately, you are also destroying the work of Members and the debates of Members, as well as the level of debate. I suggest that you be more patient about this in the debates of Members, especially in our Group of Members. You're probably like that if you read your first interview in Magu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u219	I didn't understand the last words because they were silently spoken, so I don't know what was said. In fact, I am trying to be impartial to anyone who, in my opinion, violates the Rules of Procedure. There's only one thing I'd like to say about the controversy. Be as sharp as you can be, and more, but, if possible, do not go to people with personal qualifications. I'm trying to stop this, not always successful. I try to be equal to everyone on either side. I so strongly reject the fact that I am blocking the debate in Parliament, and I think that is enough, I will not say that it is more than enough, it could be even more, if it were better, but I must reject your views. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Franzege, procedurally. All right, let's go, We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for five years the President of the National Cultural Council, Miran Zupanić, and for members Mitja Chander, Meta Hočevar, Dr. Barbara Jaki, Miran Mohar, Dr. Jože Vogrinec and Matjaž Zupančič. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anybody want to do it on behalf of the MPs? Yes, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Indeed, the Flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the members of the National Council for Culture. We believe that the proposal is good, quality, not least today we have heard even from some who have had a number of critical words and concerns in the past days, but also praised about at least two members. Well, it seems to us that all members are suitable, but above all, I would like to say that the National Council for Culture is a national council - what it already bears in its title - and not a set of regional cultural people who are supposed to regulate financial matters in particular. So many things have been said today. It is not about finances, but it is about the fact that this national council somehow monitors how Slovenia implements and has a cultural policy. And here I think we need broad, sightseeing people. People who can rise above regional and above, I would say, the interests of only individual art or culture classes. It is impossible to appoint representatives of all many arts and culture classes in the Seven Member National Council for Culture. It's impossible. And I think it is unfair for us to focus on this issue in decision-making, but especially on the breadth of these people and their visibility. In doing so, I believe that the proposals are good, that they are balanced, that they are people we can trust, that they will really be watching over what kind of cultural policy we will be leading in Slovenia, and in particular politicians, and they will also be setting a mirror for us here. Last but not least, I think it is entirely inappropriate for some regional representation to be judged by permanent residences. These people come from very different parts, their origin comes from all sides, and I think this is a good proposal, originally some are also from Maribor, from Ptuj, from New City, from Primorske Short, I think the proposal is good, but everything else is just a search for hair in the egg.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name, Matthew Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u222	Dear Mr. President! Thank you so much for saying that. From correctness to the proposal, I must say that Mitja Chander, whom I know at least personally, is at home from Hotz near Maribor, but it is true that he has lived and worked in Ljubljana for a very long time. Since Maribor is the European capital of culture in 2012, together with partner cities, it draws not only its development perspective but also its self-confidence. Despite his respect, I will vote against all those who are proposed. Not so much because of this concrete proposal, but because I would like to place greater emphasis on the regional dimension of our human resources decisions, including those coalitions. In Maribor we have many reputations of creators and culturers and, above all, the explanation of this proposal may be offensive to Maribor. In this respect, I cannot say otherwise than "against".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! I think that the Commission, which decided in Brussels and Maribor, with partner cities, including Ptuj, has also granted the European Capital of Culture in 2012, has probably made a huge mistake, making a decision for Maribor and these partner cities, because, as it was said today, that the high-profile people come only from Ljubljana and from the centre. Of course, this coalition has shown that high-profile people, able to lead the country, etc., come only from the center, but now it's all "drunk", also the center, so I don't know how long it's going to be like this. To gain a place in Brussels or a decision to become a city - with partnership - the European Capital of Culture of Europe, I think - to correct me, but so far Slovenia has not had it, as far as I know, I think that it was two years ago Gradec - is in heaven a drunken sin to allow the Slovenian government to propose such a composition that there is no one from one of the leading institutions of culture from Maribor. This is shameful and humiliating. As far as the coalition MPs are concerned, that's all. It would be right to fight this within our own coalition if not, but to say that in such parties it is simply impossible to work and if someone is working against the one who elected you, then of course you have to say it clearly and loudly and take steps. I will not vote against it because people are worthy of the respect proposed. I'll hold on, but it's embarrassing. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? No, no, no. I'm asking you to sign up. At least that's how I'll keep you on screen. The word has magic. Andrea Richter. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I had no intention of making an announcement, but perhaps my dear colleagues would object if we looked at it or looked at it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u227	Dear colleague, this is exactly what I wanted to warn you, you are new, not so new in Parliament. The explanation of the voice is not disputed with the neighbours. They can't answer anymore. Everything that has happened in this regard has happened. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I'll hold on. It would be good to look at a law that is in the public interest - which makes it very clear what the criteria for selecting an individual member of the National Council for Culture are. We probably don't know that or we don't remember it - when we accepted it. It is the second appointment of the National Council for Culture, the second set of individuals and criteria of the region or how the other is not recorded anywhere. I'm surprised you don't look at people. The area of culture and creativity always extends to all interests. I'm sure if we looked a little bit better at the work of individuals, we would see that it ranges from the north, the east, the south and the west of creative all individuals. It would be good to talk so many times about culture, and we all know that sometimes it is possible to abstain from what people have created and what is the purpose of the National Council for Culture. This is a second appointment and I may have been a bit grave: Miran Zupanič is a creator, indeed, of the world metal and he was able to hold the National Council for Culture at the time when the President resigned and when he held back and held back that he had warned about the sustainability, professionalism and all the regularities that happened in culture. And his work went specifically to Maribor and then, not least, to a warning about the arguments for the European Capital of Culture. So, dear fellows, maybe sometimes a little more attention. I've already stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I understand you're going to vote in favour, aren't you? Explanation of Vito Rožej's voice, no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u230	Dear President, in view of my debate so far, we could know for ourselves that such a warning is unnecessary for me, but I am still taking it kindly to know. I'll support this decision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u231	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u232	This is because in this national world there are two Mariborians, one Ptujčan, one Novoměščnica, one Ljubljana and two Ljubljanaians with them. [[...]] I am sorry, too, that there is no one from Kopra, nor from Kranj, Celje, from Slovenj Gradac, nor any from Osilnica, Kobil, Lake and Loški Potok. But I guess that's because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u233	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u234	the larger municipalities, even the more they give for all the things their citizens need, even for culture. [[...]] Cultural institutions are at home in larger cities, but, as mentioned earlier, we do not have a Slovenian National Theatre, Ballet and there is not even a cultural institution that can boast of a venerable 90-year history as the Maribor Theatre can. It's just that urban centers are probably able to offer more to their people than municipalities that do not meet the legal requirements. That is, of course, why the composition of the world is so. As far as expertise is concerned, the forerunner has already explained everything. I will support such a national council and wish it the best possible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Joseph Jerovšek. Please. Explanation of voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u236	I had previously announced that I would abstain from voting. However, I also said that I am afraid that, because of at least two names and some others, this coalition will turn against the President, in particular because of its dogmatic interests and ideological interests. Because I know that the film Children of Petrička caused a lot of unrest and strong protests, publicly expressed that this should not be broadcast. From one of the explanations, I also felt that that dogmatic interest was stronger. And because I fear that so many positive people who have so upstandingly defined themselves in this ideological space would fail, and because every next proposal of this coalition would be even worse, I have changed my decision and will support it, especially because of the positive and upright people in this National Council for Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing four members of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u239	Please, peace in the hall! Contemplation!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u240	Is there peace in the hall or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u241	Please, Mr. Tanko. Unfortunately, for the time being, we could only imitate the visitors on the balcony. Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u242	Mr President, I will start anyway, although there is no peace. We have before us an incomplete proposal to appoint members of the State Audit Commission. Regrettably, the only candidate for President of the State Audit Commission has resigned for unexplained reasons, without an explanation, it has not been said whether this was for personal reasons or for any other reason. However, it is a matter of appointing members of a very important institution, a very important body that operates in appeal proceedings. And given that, in many cases, the political functioning of those in the appeal process is also likely to be linked mainly to the resignation of the only candidate because political pressure is expected on those who will decide on complaints in public tenders. It is probably not necessary here to say that several investigative commissions have been set up to investigate the suspicions of corruption, including the suspicion of corruption in some of the calls. Some other things are likely to open up, which will be related to the calls for proposals that will take place. And given that some members of this coalition, including the members of this coalition, share in the companies participating in these calls, and at the same time these officials are in charge in the Government and where they carry out these calls, it is likely that it is extremely important who will be at the head of this appeal or audit authority. There is probably reason for thinking that this is also the case for finding the most suitable person who will be at the head of this institution, because it will have to be a person, like in the case of, say, the anti-corruption commission, which will deal mainly with those who will report what things, but not with those who have actually caused what things. Otherwise, we have no problem with this composition of the membership of the State Audit Commission, but the problem is that the Commission is headed and it is very likely that, as in cases, the NLB's appointments will decide somewhere in the background of coalition agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing the members of mags to the State Audit Commission for a period of five years. Maya Bilby, Sonya Drozdek Shinko, mag. Nataša Jeršič and Vida Kostanjevac. They shall enter into force on 24.12.2009. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has adopted the proposed assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the National Council of Inquiry to establish the political responsibilities of public officials involved in the preparation and implementation of construction investments of public importance in the area of the construction of motorways and economic infrastructures financed by the State budget, in view of the suspicion that the procedures and transactions have been politically agreed, led in a transparent and non-economic manner, and the suspicion of the presence of clienteleism, corruption and interconnections between the various activities involved in the preparation, procurement and execution of construction works, as well as the procedures for the ownership and management of construction companies and, in this regard, in particular, the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and their role in this regard. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be no presentation. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Melita Župevc. He wants to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u244	But I will briefly, even though the others have given up to present their views on behalf of the parliamentary groups, although this is actually about [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u245	In your own name, your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u246	Yes, of course, I'm registered. Although the others have given up, although it seems important to me that this is a formality when we confirm the President and the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry, in fact what I am about to say here could be said at the next point. I think it would be good to point out that it is a matter of great extensibility to set up investigative commissions. We'll have the fourth in this term, the opposition. I think it's right to point out that investigative committees in the National Assembly are losing importance. There are certain precise written rules that talk about why investigative commissions can and why they can be established. We will therefore be given an investigative commission to investigate Golobic and to investigate Jankovic and what we have before us, the so-called highway investigation commission and the investigative commission to count the deleted. It is right that we know how many investigative commissions we are establishing in this mandate or how many the opposition has established. Of course, it is possible to collect 30 signatures, to apply for an investigative commission. We'll probably have a few more before the end of our term of office. I wouldn't want to politicize it. Well, it's a formality. But the extensibility of establishing and certifying investigative commissions in the National Assembly shows that this is an abuse of this important institution of parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I also thought of quitting myself first, but since the predecessor spoke so negatively about the investigative commissions, about the extensibility, about the abuse of the Institute, I must say that this constant attempt to evaluate the institute of investigative commissions is due to the fact that in some way within the parties who say so, there is a pervasive conscience. In any way, they are trying to prevent by all means what can be done to prevent corruption in a given case, to prevent fraud, to make Slovenia a little more transparent in order to make taxpayers' money so wasteful and so terrible that they do not spill into private pockets without any sanctions, which is why investigative commissions are also needed. If we work honestly on the investigative commissions, even today the desperate and humiliated workers, both in Gorenje, Mura, will begin to hope that this country wants to help that order and justice be established in the country and that this is a value to be respected. That is why I have a positive opinion on this institute and I will vote in favour of this formal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Replica, Melita Župevc [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Reported, he has the right to a replica, I'm sorry. [[...]] Please, Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u250	I was the only one reported for this debate alongside my colleague Jerovská, so I suggest that you apply for another debate and you can discuss it. I must answer my colleague Jerovšek when he speaks of transparency and again about state resources. Let's be transparent. The Slovenian Democratic Party has eight presidential seats, which have been allocated to it by committee. Now you'll get four more presidents of the commission of inquiry. I suggest you set up another commission of inquiry by the end of your term of office, so you will have more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the National Council of Inquiry to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of clientism and the corruption of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Gregor Golobič in obtaining substantial public grants and public procurement for companies in the Ultra Group (Urban City Card project, the Ljubljana Passenger Transport D.o.o., fictitious business of protecting Mercator d.o.o., electronisation of student food, to be carried out by the business company Margento R&D.o.o. etc.), in which Gregor Golobič co-ownered, and in transferring the area of electronic communications from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in order to establish political responsibility for the suspicion that the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Gregor Golobič, has concealed taxes, unjustifiably acquired the status of a farmer for the purchase of agricultural land and has failed to demonstrate to the competent authorities his wealth status and origin, for the determination of the political responsibilities of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Gregor Golobic for the avoidance of taxes in the Republic of Slovenia, with active participation in the exercise of the tax burdens of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the determination of political responsibility due to the suspicion of clientism and the corruption of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Gregor Golobič for the acquisition of poorly secured loans granted by NLB d. d., which is owned by several companies in the economy group of Ultra. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. He wants mag. Sayovic present your position? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since there is no debate between Members and Members, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the examination of the Study with the resignation of two members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, Tomaž Glajar and Nikola Damjanić, by letters dated 21 and 29 June 2009, informed the President of the National Assembly of their resignation as a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia and requested the National Assembly to begin the discharge procedure with that function. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Sayovic, Jože Tanko, would you like to present the delegation's position? Only if you want to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! You wanted to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u253	You signed up, Mr. Tanko and I are obliged to invite you. I didn't want anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u254	You wanted to, well, I'll say it. Now, the derogation of the two members of the RTV Council is somehow in line with the mandate of this coalition, given the manner in which these two derogations are justified and the discussions that accompany them in the media, I can assess this that these two percentages are part of the pressure on the public service of Radiotelevision and, in fact, this derogation gives rise to the policy of creating the basis for amending the RTV Law to amend the Media Law and consequently also for human resources changes in the public institution of Radiotelevision. The reasons on which these two derogations are based are, in fact, such that both should actually initiate proceedings before the relevant authorities and not in such a way, disqualify those who are obliged to carry out the Radio Television programme and also perform functions. Certainly, in this case, when judged in this way by the abuse of the Institute of Derogation, the arguments are not those on which this derogation would take place, and they are not true, but they are obviously behind this systemic approach to the preparation of the basis for action in the media field and also in the field of executive functions in this institution. These two derogations also go into the context of the Minister's performances immediately after the launch of her term of office, when she strongly opposed public broadcasters, including public broadcasters, even on the blog, it was obvious that the very personal discreditation of the one performing one of the business functions was being detected, and we need to find that this principle of discredit and then also the removal or political liquidation continues. These two derogations are the basis for the further steps the coalition will take in this media field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you very much. It was quite by chance that today, four years ago in Slovenia, there was a referendum where we decided between the electorate and the electorate on the RTV Act, which was adopted in the previous term. The result showed that the Slovenians wanted such a marriage because it was confirmed. However, such a law was already a thorn in the 5th LDS, in Zares and also in the SD. They've been looking all the time for ways to change this marriage. Now that this coalition is in power, they want to re-sell RTV as a spoil of war, and to do so, it is necessary to amend the legislation. This was particularly so when RTV just published false statements by President Zares, the minister, and then came up with a way or procedure to find an excuse to amend the RTV Act as soon as possible, the media and so on. The problem was how to justify to the public that this amendment was necessary. The old tested method of LDS, Zaresa, SD was chosen to require first the discreditation, disqualification and then everything that follows. And this is where the chosen method was that the two members of the Supervisory Council, who we know of, are politically defined to have given up on an explanation that is unbelievably, ridiculous and, in no way, convincing. If anything were true, what they were saying as an argument - we have a number of institutions, organs, not least you have a coalition in the hands of a scissors and a canvas, we could do without any difficulty if anything were really wrong. But you all know that's not the case. And now that these two members have resigned or have resigned, the moment has come when all the cannons will try to point to the bad work of the leadership or all the authorities in the RTV that are running this house. However, this medium is relatively objective, although you realize that this is not the case, because they are the ones who have revealed a number of irregularities. That's why it was thrown away so that now you and all the cannons will shoot at RTV's leadership to change the RTV Act and everything that it is, and try to make it as the other media did. Thus this derogation, however it is necessary to accept one such as it is, even though the mandate expires in one way or another, it is funny that this derogation has happened - but whatever: what you imagine you will probably do, but the public - believe it - does not believe you anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We are considering the resignation of two members of the RTV Programme Board [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u259	The Supervisory Council, Comrade Jerovšek, the Supervisory Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u260	The Supervisory Board, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u261	So there wouldn't be any wrong discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u262	I'm sorry. When we are aware of the well-known statement made by one of the retreated members, 'that RTV leadership'must be launched', it is clear that this was an overture and a precursor to experiments that followed later on how to discredit the leadership of RTV. I must say, this RTV leadership has done a lot. Not only did it dare to play, twice probably, the film Children from Petrička, for which one of them protested loudly, but it also caused the minister to smell the sweat of the director of television remotely. I don't know what Freud might mean, but still this scent she introduced. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u263	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u264	as disgusting and has fallen to the lowest level of speech and expression. [[....]] And I think it was impatience, Mr President, because you interrupted me earlier. I have the right to say that such an act is impatient and intolerable. I am aware that this act of this derogation has been ordered, that gentlemen are likely to see themselves in other positions, as they have already been in the past, within this system or that money could flow more intensively from this cake into the activities where they themselves engage. I expect you to sanction these matters further. I imagine that this process will continue so that you will not stop in these exchanges, because in fact this is the only red thread of this government: to replace everything that is not ideologically connected to this authority, let it be in public institutions, to be in culture, to be in the economy, state property, to be in banks. This determination to remove anything that is not ideological and capital-related to the authorities that move this power must be removed. In fact, this statement, which was so frank - hearted, one of the retired members, showed much. You are probably unhappy today that he has shown so transparently what is ordered, so that this process of demolition of RTV and even the adoption of the new law has stopped slightly. Perhaps even for her insolence, the minister was something of a "growling" that she must be more skilled in these matters. Of course, I take it that you have resigned, but I have no hope that the real people will come to these places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The mandate-holder commission presented the following decision to the National Assembly: The National Assembly notes that Tomaž Glažar and Nikola Damjanič have resigned from the functions of the members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, and therefore, on the basis of Article 26, paragraph 7, they shall terminate the mandate of the members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia when the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 8 of the RTV Act are applied. Their term of office shall expire on the date on which the findings are made. I take it the council has made a decision. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the termination of the post of Vice-President and the appointment of Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The draft decision was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will put an end to the position of President Alexander Ravnikar of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats in the Constitutional Commission and call him mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not about this point, it's about the notice you sent. You have sent a notice that receiving material for the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will take place on Sunday between 10 a.m. and 14 p.m. and Monday between 7 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. I would suggest that this material, which will be discussed at an extraordinary meeting, and also at the Committee on European Union Affairs, be distributed to us today during the meeting so that we do not go to Members on Sunday for material and study it or on Monday morning. The material is large, it needs to be reviewed, there are changes, and I think it is best that you make sure that Members can also raise this material by the end of the session today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u267	I'm tied to the government here. Otherwise, on Monday, September 28th, it is possible to obtain material from 7 a.m. on. Please, that's not the point. I intend to talk about this at the conclusion of the sitting, and we will deal with these matters at that time. We will not consider this now - at the end of the meeting. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision on the conclusion of the termination of a member's function and on the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The draft decision was tabled by the Zares Group - New Policy. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. You don't want to explain groups, but you want procedural. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Let me just give you a brief procedural question. I ask my colleague Kontić, does the coalition have 46 votes for election in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u269	The procedural question concerns the President of the National Assembly, not the other Members and Members of the Chamber. May I have peace in the hall? We haven't finished the vote yet. Gather around, we're working, even though Friday is the afternoon or the evening. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that ends the function of member Ivo Wyglu in the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, the Zares-New Policy Group, and is elected as a member by Franc Keka, the Zares-New Policy Group. At the same time, I would like to remind you that if the majority of Members vote for it, this will be 46 or more. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. The assembly is not adjourned, so I am moving on to a re-vote, if this vote fails, I will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. I note that the National Assembly is not concluded, so I hereby adjourn the meeting of the Assembly for 10 minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The meeting will continue at 6.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u270	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session and the consideration of the Proposal for Decisions on the conclusion of the termination of the member's function and the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. We're in a vote. Once again, I would like to point out that the decision will be adopted if it is voted on by the majority of the members of the National Assembly, which is 46 or more. We are holding a third vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the end of the presidency and the appointment of the President and on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The draft decision was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the Zares-New Policy Group. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He has the word Jože Tanko, on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u271	Dear colleagues! We had the European elections on 7 June 2009, and at that time we knew who the new Members of the European Parliament were, except for one candidate. In the National Assembly, we confirmed the terms of office at the July meeting, I think July 9th, and the next day these candidates who were elected were also given a mandate in the European Parliament. Since then, the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy without the President and the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has also been without a member. During that time, we concluded the July 8th meeting, the regular meeting of the National Assembly, which ended four days after the approval of the mandates to the elected Members for the European Parliament. Immediately thereafter, we had a special meeting of the National Assembly, as requested by the Government, and on 8 September a new meeting of the National Assembly, where we discussed war legislation. In short, we had three meetings of the National Assembly, at which we could appoint the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. However, during all this period, the coalition has not been able to draw up a proposal, agree on and prepare a proposal and forward it to the National Assembly. Even more, the leader of the second largest coalition group said that they did not have the right candidate to lead this committee, and you finally agreed in the coalition that this post of Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy should be withdrawn from the largest coalition party and we will only now vote to obtain the competent leadership of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I'm also saying this because it's some kind of stunt, bad job, negligence in the coalition. In some ways, this also reflects the work of the coalition in the National Assembly, when it is allowed that the situation is taking place, that events take place in a kind of unorganized, disorderly way, that everything is done somewhere fast and horribly, and that is why we face such matters. It's only when it's actually found that something is needed that we don't have something, and that's why I'm saying it. During this time, many things have been going on, especially with regard to regulating relations with neighbouring Croatia, and there has been a silent diplomacy. The Committee on Foreign Policy should be active in these developments, and this has not been the case. Even more, one of the two vice-presidents essentially took over and led his story as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Only now that we have confirmed Janja Klasinc as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy will this working body be able to function as it should be. Other personnel matters are likely to take place in a similar manner. We have previously rescued/sainted, I would say, the situation that the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission also did not have a member from the second largest coalition group in this important supervisory body. Even more, even when he was not yet a member, this candidate, whom we had confirmed a little earlier, came to this body operating in closed sessions with the authority, which in fact shows that we are very poorly aware of the rules of procedure, that we are very poorly familiar with the law and laws, and that is why even in the work of the National Assembly there are strange things happening when things are going unregulated, untransparent, when those things that are on the agenda are in accordance with the rules of procedure, obstacles and rejects, while some other solutions are being usurped and that goes on without a problem as in the work of the Committee on Foreign Policy. However, we will support this change or this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you very much. As President of the National Assembly, I have a duty to clarify that the National Assembly decides on new names at its first next meeting, after the expiry of its term of office. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will put an end to the position of President Ivo Wyglu, the Zares Group of Members - New Policy and resolve itself from the role of Vice-President Janjo Klasinc. The President is called Janja Klasinc, Group of Social Democrats, and France Jurija, Group of Members, is the new policy. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. The draft decision was tabled by the Zares-New Policy Group for consideration by the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve Vice-President Franco Juri, Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, the Zares Group - New Policy and Vice-President Vito Rožej, Parliamentary Group Zares - New Policy. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedural? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. I see you've got some problems. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u274	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u275	Dear President! Once again, I would like you to share with us this material that is necessary for Monday's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and also for the previous meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, so that we can get Members to know the above material in a timely manner. If the material is available and I believe that, since the Government has probably prepared it, it is very appropriate for you to make sure that this material is distributed at the time of the meeting, not by restricting Members and forcing them to come and get the material on Sunday between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. or by lifting the material between 7 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. on Monday morning. It does not need to be emphasized that this will probably not meet the conditions for Members to prepare themselves in a qualitative manner to deal with such complex matter as you have placed on the occasion of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I do not propose the suspension of the meeting, but I suggest that you simply allow or ensure that the services of the National Assembly allow Members to raise this material during this meeting and that you do not invite them or prevent them from doing so and that you force them to come and get this material on Sunday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u276	Once again, Mr Tanko, I would ask you, including on your part, for some understanding. With regard to the management of the meeting, we are on agenda item 5 and this procedural proposal did not fall within this point. In the end, I have already announced that I will explain, and I will do everything and the services of the National Assembly for you to receive the material as soon as possible. And I can't add anything to that right now. That is why, as I said, we continue to end the 5th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act, under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday 23. 9. 2009 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the National Assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 180 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Cooperation Act." We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The delegation of the Slovenian Democratic Party considers that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration and will therefore, accordingly, reject and vote against this proposed decision. There are at least five reasons for this. The first reason is very simple. At the time of the recession, at the time of the drastic downsizing of orders and sales of motor vehicles, motorcycles, motorcycles and tricycles, quadricycles, i.e. we record a 40% drop in the sales of motorcycles and about 25% of the decline in motor vehicles, we cannot imagine an increase in the tax burden on these products. This further exacerbates the market situation with cars and bicycles with engines and motorcycles. So instead of introducing subsidies and thus encouraging people to buy more environmentally friendly cars, we go to taxation, extra taxation of mid-class vehicles. We cannot possibly agree that the medium layer that buys the middle class of cars is additionally taxed by this proposal. The second reason is progress, which is remarkable and remarkable in the Republic of Slovenia compared to other European countries, both in motor vehicles and in motorcycles, motorcycles. It is not right and it is not logical that we are also some "front leaders", the country that is most taxed and going like calvaries, as we have done with the implementation of the "Hasap standards" when they burdened and made uncompetitive many of our entrepreneurs and businesses. The third reason is that motor bicycles are being introduced and heavily taxed, which has not been done so far. Even mopeds, the lowest, the smallest bikes with the engine; and here the progression of this scale is abnormal and unacceptable. Light commercial vehicles are taxed, making part of the labour economy even more uncompetitive. Fifth. And proper traffic is not regulated by environmentally-controversial, imported cars from abroad. This proposal will lead to the fact that this medium layer, which has now also purchased new vehicles, will now be affected by cheaper, environmentally disputed imported vehicles. Of course, he'll pay the tax, but he'll pay the same tax, but at a purely different sales price, because it's going to be significantly lower because of used vehicles. So these are the reasons why we will not support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u279	We will support the proposal for a new law on motor vehicle taxation at first reading, especially because it represents a major step forward in the green tax policy. This novelty means that someone will finally pay a tax on a motor vehicle, given how many vehicles he has decided to buy it for. So the vehicle that has more emissions will be more taxed, the vehicle that has less emissions will be less taxed. During the discussion, we were able to find that a lot of vehicles and middle and middle-class vehicles would be cheaper or less taxed for this reason. Some luxury-class vehicles will be reduced by 80%, because the base for taxation will no longer be the price but the emissions. Other vehicles, including medium-, medium- and high-class vehicles, which are highly wasteful and polluting, will be taxed up as is right. We have heard and analysed several times the question of which people will pay the most and which one at least. Clearly, those who opt for wasteful polluting vehicles will pay the most. At the very least, those who decide on environmentally friendly vehicles will be paid. End of discussion. There's no lower, middle or high class here. This is what we have found by the Social Democrats, we know in the coalition, and we hope that, for such a step forward, we can become a good practice, an example of good practice throughout and outside the European Union, mature throughout the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 24. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We will support the law in the SDS, because it means solutions proposed in the law, the burden of a good part of the Slovenian economy, especially micro-enterprises, which are in a subordinate position to large systems because of their smallness, and also because they are the most dynamic and flexible. According to 2007 data, we have over 96% of micro-enterprises in Slovenia. With the support of this law, we will significantly help to reduce costs, in particular the cost of keeping books with taxpayers, and also to reduce costs on the part of the Tax Administration. By adopting this law or when we vote in favour of this law, this law will also have positive effects on self-employment, which is of paramount importance in these times of crisis. And with the support of this law, economic activity will also be able to increase. That is why we will vote in the SDS, as we say, for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. On behalf of the delegation? In my own name. Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I vote on this law, I will abstain, especially for a simple reason, because when I look at some of the data, I have to say that work, manual work, the work of a small craftsman, when I look at what profits they show, I've come to the point that their profit is about 6% on average on their gross income. And that's a pretty big majority. This is where I got 15, I counted it all and it comes to an average of 5%. This means that this law should, in particular, be refined, analysed and really considered. Since this business, which I myself have been dealing with, is out of the question, but above all, there is a great benefit for those companies that sell intellectual services, where costs are certainly small and profitable, profits, very large; and in those segments this would come to terms, while in those sectors that I would like to see come to -- especially in this manual work -- I do not think there will be that much of an expression. I will therefore abstain in this vote and propose that a thorough analysis be made and that the exact results be achieved, and then that we determine how and for what activities this law would apply. And maybe it could even go to higher standard costs - it could happen. However, I am sure that if we had done a good analysis, the country would have profited. There would be more taxes and craftsmen would decide on this because it is easier to manage and regulate this issue and less administrative barriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 28. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 28.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Peace in the hall! Voting is a vote. Why are you surprised? Once like that, another time. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on public property of officials. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on public property of officials is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We have been proposing this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, so it is logical, of course, that we will also support it. The aim of the law is to ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and preventive action in the field of corruption and in the field of clientism. The substance of the law is the public publication of the assets of public officials and sanctions which provide that the assets of a public official who has not been declared or property for which a public official cannot explain its origin shall be taken away from such an official. The law would prevent various manipulations and deal more effectively with corruption. Regardless of the positive intent of this law, the Government has identified it as negative, the European Central Bank positively. What was the purpose or purpose of this marriage? The purpose of this law is to act effectively, to prevent corruption and to this end, we have also gone forward by proposing this law. This law does not abolish the Commission for the prevention of corruption, but it is true that this commission has not lovingly justified its mission in these years of its existence. If I say so, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u286	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u287	what would have happened in some practical case if this law had been passed. [[...]] If this law had been adopted and it had been found that a property had not been declared or published or that it would have been worth a few million Euros worth of property, the one who would not have reported it would have declared that it would have earned EUR 1900 net monthly, but would not have had any other income except perhaps any brewery share and could not have explained the origin of that asset, such assets would have been confiscated and, in the current situation, the Anti-Corruption Commission expects such an official to be asked where the difference between the asset and the liability would have been. And that is what the current regulation, despite allowing it, has not been done. In all of this legislation, we did not have one case in which the assets of someone before entering public office were compared to those of those who left this public function or between, if there were changes in this value of property. This is also one of the intentions that we have followed in this law, which, through this system of public publishing and transparency, should also allow this to happen. Because we did not want to speculate, we have also made this property publicly available to Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much. On behalf of the delegation? Mr Matvež Frangež on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. We will vote against this bill for three reasons, for the first time because there is another attempt to end the anti-corruption commission or at least take an important part of the power, secondly because we would not have taken this law for the real reasons and origins of clientism and corruption; and thirdly, because in some elements the bill may be contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, if not even unconstitutional. To think seriously about the fight against clientism and corruption, we will prove by adopting an already prepared proposal for a law on integrity, by which the Government has fully tackled the fight against clientism and corruption, by recording and controlling the assets of officials, by regulating conflicts of interest, by prohibiting the granting of business to businesses owned by officials or their family members, by regulating lobbying and so on. With the adoption of the Integrity Act, we will significantly extend the coverage and control not only to public officials but also to categories of public servants. Since we believe that the Integrity Act is a comprehensive regulation of the fight against corruption, we will reject the opposition's proposal in this segment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice on your behalf, Dr. Vinko Gorenak? Anybody else want some? And Roberto Battelli. Anyone else? Otherwise, I'll open the application so you can all explain your voice. [[No, no, ……]] So, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, explanation of vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I was going to ask for procedural, but in the framework of what I have at my disposal, in two minutes I will try to tell you why I will vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u292	Mr. Gorenak, would you like a procedural explanation or a vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u293	Why would I vote yes? Thank you very much. I will vote for it in particular - or I will say, on the understanding that nobody listened yesterday, on the understanding that no one has listened to my colleague, I must vote in favour. On finding that we have heard the lies that are called "you are withdrawing the Kosovo Commission" yesterday, in my presentation, Mr President, I also have to vote in favour, three times I said, in the meantime, I have done a number of breathing exercises and breaks to be heard by my colleagues. They didn't hear me! That's why I have to vote yes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u294	Dr Gorenak, I ask you to speak respectfully about your fellow Members and Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u295	That's why I have to vote yes, because they said yes. That is why I must vote in favour, because this proposal, once again, I repeat to the Slovenian public, if some cannot read, does not abolish the Kosovo Commission. But the law that set up the Kosovo Commission has eight chapters. It should be read to abolish six or seven articles and as in the European Union countries - I counted them yesterday, I have no more time today - we are transferring to another institution called the Court of Auditors. And with this institution, this was also agreed in the previous term, and no one spoke of unconstitutionality. That's why I'm here, and I'm going to make a call, Mr President, to say out loud that I'm going to vote in favour. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Because some people lie. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you very much. An explanation for Roberto Battelli's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much. I'll vote "against." You know, not because officials shouldn't tell me everything about our assets. This exists in certain forms already: from what is held under mattresses or socks, or whatever, to bank accounts, to real estate - everything. That's not an issue. The public is in dispute. Because the public, if it goes - of course, the public must be our personal income, publicly all we get, and so-called privileges that are not privileges, and no one has the courage to say to the public that these are not privileges and so on, but that 'rid' in some way because of buying the favor of this same public. In short, the public is at issue for everyone because this actually interferes with the sphere of privacy which, according to international important documents, must [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have all individualism. [[...]] Because it would then reveal certain personal, very personal things, very personal relationships and so on. In this sphere, the public does not have the right to have an insight. You can set up certain institutions, that's right. So this has to be covered with a certain [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The level of discretion. That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I leaned a little lower so you could hear me, because no one listens to me. We will support this law for several reasons [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u300	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u301	For the first time, because we want to make this law very clear in the field of justice and in the area of the transition of lawyers and judges - that is, prosecutors and judges among lawyers, which is a mass phenomenon, to establish order in this area. In fact, the law has one article, which is extremely important, and everyone else is less important. This is to prohibit judges and prosecutors from three years' employment in law enforcement. All the explanations we have heard so far have not convinced us. It is simple, however, that today prosecutors and judges can stop their work at any time at 23.59 and become lawyers at 00.01. This is unfair, this is unfair and this is not in terms of the constitutional guarantee of a fair trial against all people. Another time. It should also be said that the reference, because some have referred to the so-called right to free choice of work, which is supposed to be violated by this judge and the prosecutor, is not sustainable. He cannot bear the fact that such a law has already been passed in this Hall of the National Assembly, and he has forbidden 10,000 police officers to work in security and detective organizations for four years. So I believe, or in the Group of Members, that there is also a need in the field of justice - but there are many practical cases to be said. We have heard very clear from the Minister's mouth that there have been 400 such cases in recent years, which is a very large number. It is therefore necessary to simply make a comparative situation in this area that will make this impossible. A few more comparisons. European legislation or other laws of Europe or by-laws prevent this from happening in many countries. I have cited the case of Austria and Sweden, where, according to the statutes of the solicitors' chambers, which are accepted by governments and not by the solicitors' chambers, as in our case, is prohibited for all judges and all prosecutors, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to become lawyers at any time. [[...]] We only propose three years. I had to be loud, too, Mr. President, because yesterday the last SD member disappeared from the hall. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u302	I don't know if this is relevant to the vote, but whatever. Thank you very much. Self-explanation of the vote [[...]] Anyone else want to do it on behalf of the MPs? On behalf of the SD Group, Mr Križman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be loud so you can all hear me. We will vote "against" in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in your own name, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, if you really think you need it. [[...]] [[Advertising in the hall, incomprehensible.]] [[...]] Please turn off the microphones. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Maybe you don't have to explain your voice in your own name. [[...]] [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] We'll all wait with you. We'll wait together. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]] I remind you that I will not allow controversy and reference to fellow Members from other [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u305	You're not a doctor to pre-vaccinate us. Thank you very much. In short, I must also say on my behalf that I will support the marriage. Indeed, it is very clear that there is a disorder in this area. What 400 judges or prosecutors have been going through - in recent years - is the first reason. The second reason is that prosecutors and judges at any time, even when they are captured by the prosecutor's law or the court law, when they go into an act which means that they can be sanctioned in any way, simply resign and leave. Therefore, the situation in the Slovenian judiciary is that you do not have any prosecutor or almost no prosecutor or any judge who is subject to sanctions. Of course they're not, because they're leaving the lawyers. They wait a few months or years there and maybe come back. But more important to me is the right of all people to have a fair trial. However, it is not that prosecutors or judges are able to make any known, at any time during their work, to the writings, to the situation or to anything else, to the limitations they have today and to which I know that anyone can refer is not effective. They're not effective in any way. And it's unfair for ten thousand police officers. And that's why this law has to be passed, at least at first reading, but you can fix it. You can complete it and at least show the cops a little more beautiful face because they're four-year-olds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, the third consideration, within the framework of the shorter procedure. You have received an amendment to the amended draft law today, a reduced procedure, a third hearing, so I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes. Five minutes, please. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party has re tabled this amendment to try to correct the injustice and also the unconstitutionality which, of course, the basic text of the law also brings. For in this way the provision of a Roma councilman is discriminatory towards the majority population and, last but not least, to the Roma community itself. If I tell you the case. I already ordered it today. In the New City, which we have a relatively high population of the Roma community, we have two Roma saints in the municipal world; one who has been elected directly, indicating that if there is an interest among the Roma community, they should approach when regular elections are to have their own representative, of course they can also get it; and another saint who has been elected by the legislation that allows it. It's true, as they now say, that we don't have it right now, but we don't have it because he passed away. But what I want to stress is the inadequacy of this law, of this proposal, and the fact that, right now, the electoral commission is facing a problem that can even lead to a complaint before the Constitutional Court. Because the candidate or two candidates who are now ready to run in these elections, one is Roma, and one has declared itself as a representative of the Roma community, which of course is not, and now we have a conflict right between the Roma population that opposes it. Finally, it is also apparent whether such choice of candidate is constitutional. And they are already predicting in the event of this candidate's election that the Constitutional Court will have to determine whether such a candidate is constitutional. For, as I have mentioned, such a law and such a change as it is now, in no case does it guarantee that the status of municipal councilman can be achieved by the indigenous Roma. Here there may be numerous abuses that it is legislators, such as it is, not allowing. Similarly, these congregations are now listed here as having to have a municipal councillor, and if they do not so choose to be judged by the State Election Commission. Roma are a population known to like to move. It means that if a Romani group moves to Koper, I wonder if we will then change the law again so that Koper will have a Romani saint. Or I wonder why he doesn't have Ljubljana right now. We also received Roma in Ljubljana, as we know. Such a law, such as it is now, far from solves the problems of providing a Romani saint. And once again, there is no need, really no need to discriminate against the majority population, which has one electoral right, but the Roma population has two: first they elect municipal councilors directly and then only those candidates who are for the Roma councillor. It means that discrimination is more than obvious here. And last but not least, I wonder how many municipal councils where the Romani councilman could contribute, but by his own vote, that the resolution of conflicts or any problems that are always or in most cases between the majority and the Roma population, or that the municipal councilman of the Roma species, could contribute to the speedy resolution of these problems. It is right to save them, and they must, but in a different way. Such a law will by no means solve it. Therefore, with such an amendment, which we have now tabled and will support, we would make the law at least in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u308	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I hope that I have heard my fellow Member wrong or that I misunderstood him when he spoke about the Roma population and about the pure population. But if I've heard it correctly, then I hope you'll warn him in the future, because it's certainly a major racial discrimination that's already taking place within the National Assembly. Which is not enough to separate ourselves from "our" and "your" or that the SDS party is doing it again and again, now we are talking about the pure population. What happens when we get to the pureblood and then so on, and I'm afraid we'll be in a state just before World War II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u311	Mr President, I propose to young Mr Levanič that he read the magnetogram [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u312	I need you to address the question to me on a procedural basis, not to Mr. Levanič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u313	Well, please provide him with a magnetogram, where it will be written very clearly, that I spoke about the majority population that is known to be, and this does not mean any racial discrimination between one or the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you very much. [[The ad in the hall: "Apologisation!"]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u315	Excuse me? I expect an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much. The word is Bell Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of these amendments, for this reason, because I believe that a mistake has been made already when the Assembly of Mind determined, without any criteria, that there should be a Roma saint in 20 municipalities, and that the Government should then take care of the criteria and criteria for determining whether the congregations themselves should have a Roma saint or not. Now again with this law, we make the same mistake and injustice to certain congregations. That is why I will support this amendment because I think it saves at least one congregation where they feel that they do not need this Romani saint or have no right of the Roma to a saint. I would also suggest that it be resolved once and for all by hearing the Constitutional Court, which ordered the Government to prepare the criteria and criteria and then get rid of these Roma councilors on the basis of these criteria and criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko? I'd like a new round to discuss. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u319	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is a copy of the amendment, which has already twice achieved rejection in the National Assembly in the second reading, once at the home working body, for the second time at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Of course, what is the main reason for the proposed amendment is known by the proposers themselves. However, we can find that the illegal situation in the municipality of Grosuplje is due to the unlawful decisions of the municipality in which the Slovenian Democratic Party has the most votes in the municipal world. Why so Grosuplje, why is the Romani clergyman thus weakening the congregation? Perhaps racial discrimination is behind this, perhaps simply a misunderstanding of the roles and opportunities offered by the Romani councilman. No matter what, in the debate we also heard some very interesting arguments that raise questions not about the role of the Roma saint, but about the whole system of positive discrimination against national minorities and ethnic minorities in Slovenia. Indeed, we have heard that it should be problematic that a Roma citizen or a Roma citizen in Grosuply may have a double voting right. Yes, because this is not only a system in all municipalities where they know the Roma Councillor, a system in all municipalities where they know the saints and saints of the Hungarian National Community, but also a system where two of the 90 Members and Members of the National Assembly are elected. Does the Slovenian Democratic Party now raise the issue of positive discrimination against the national community at all? Does he want to change the Constitution and the debate on this amendment begin? Apparently: yes! And apparently the masks are falling slowly. So behind this amendment, which is supposed to be of a technical nature, is hiding something else; hiding the rejection of another, hiding the rejection of what is not purely Slovenian, hiding the seeds of such racism that we have seen, regrettably, on several occasions in Europe and has already had very devastating consequences for the whole continent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u320	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Today, I have come to this subject and have discussed it in a similar way. Somehow, I think that all those local communities, where it has already been defined in the legislation in the past, that we have a Romani saint, I must say that I do not imagine in any way that it would happen, but probably also those colleagues who come from areas where the Roma saint is probably not imagining that they would now go into such a change of law and abolish the right to vote as a Romani saint. But where problems may have occurred in the past, and there have been many of them, there may have been a need for some kind of tolerance and understanding. And even for the benefit of customers and newspapers who somehow think otherwise, I do not know whether it makes sense and right that here, in the present case, there are some facts and issues that are not in the best interests of coexistence between different nationalities and nations in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I propose that the opposition's colleagues also think carefully about what measures are being taken, because the protection of human rights also - Roma also belong here. I don't know if everyone completely agrees with this thesis and this thinking. Think carefully, and perhaps you will change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to touch on yesterday's words by Minister Zalar, who advocated some position in the Law on Lawyery. He said, "But we can't regulate laws that apply in general, some individual excess. Individual excesses happen to us in all sub-systems of the country, which is why we do not adopt another law every day." This solution, proposed by Members of Parliament with signatures and the first-signed Mr Yuri, saves a certain excess. He's saving something that's an event that doesn't belong to a general solution. And I think it would be right for this amendment to be adopted if we wanted to maintain that the law generally regulates this matter without regulating the case of excellence. The second thing that's controversial about this marriage is jurisdiction. Under the Law on Local Self-Government in the event of irregularities found, non-execution of laws is the State Assembly which disposes of an organ that acts unlawfully. The State Election Commission has no jurisdiction in this regard. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that anything must be done, the body acting unlawfully must be resolved and the relevant decision should be proposed at the National Assembly. This solution exists in the Law on Local Self-Government. Why doesn't the government do that? Why do you propose something that is not consistent with the thesis and the statement made by the Minister of Justice? The next issue that is at issue in this law is the expansion of the congregation council beyond the criteria. Each municipality has a number of saints, which is determined by the number of people living in the municipality, and has a certain number of inhabitants by size. Expansion with the law, exclusive in the congregation of Grosuplje, means that one of the municipalities of Grosuplje is to break the relationship with the other municipalities of this size class. It means a precedent for us to deal with it this way. The next problem is that this solution also interferes with the Law on Community Financing. However, this law is not governed by this because an additional councilor is an additional burden on the municipal budget, and this burden is not covered either in principal or in appropriate consumption or wherever you wish. She's not involved because it's an extra matter. And another thing that Minister Zalar mentioned yesterday: proportionality of action. I wonder whether it makes sense to get a new municipal councilman in the congregation of Grosuplje a month or two before the call for new local elections. Does that make sense? This is an appropriate or proportionate measure. I do not think this measure is appropriate. Since this measure is appropriate, it is much more appropriate for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose the discharge of the Grosuplje Municipal Council and the re-election of members to the municipal council in the Municipality of Grosuplje. That's a reasonable measure because it has a legal basis. And when you make a decision about such an explosive solution, you certainly expose yourself to the constitutional judgment of this solution. If you don't believe me, take a magnetogram. Yesterday, at 9:30 p.m., the Minister of Justice made this statement and said at the time of the consideration of another item on the agenda. He spoke of both the matters of excellence and the proportionality of the solutions. Mr Potč was present, Mr Gantar was also, the President, and can be confirmed, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I said. [[...]] However, if there is any problem with what I have said, Mr President, if you consider that this statement and the statement made by Minister Zalar should be made known to the members of the coalition parties and those who propose, I propose that you order a recess to receive this magnetogram on the table, read it and then, on the basis of the position of the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who comes from the coalition lines - he was a judge and a justice minister - and that, on the basis of this statement, you also judge your conduct and your decision. I urge you to read this and direct your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you very much. You know I can't discuss this town. I'm reopening applications, please. The word is Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you very much. I'm today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u326	There's no limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u327	has already commented that solutions justify solving those who have the least experience or knowledge of problems with the Roma population. [[...]] Either they have a few or nothing. That is why I have already kindly invited you, and for 14 days we are happy to welcome you to the New Town so that you can face the problems that they are and that we will then look together for solutions. You'll see that the one you're suggesting is definitely not. And now let me give you another specific question. In the event that this law - because I believe you will also confirm it - the National Election Commission determines that the election of a municipal councillor of the Roma species is to take place. It means that when we talk about them, the municipality of Grosuplje needs to change its statutes, because the statutes set the number of saints. What happens if the saints don't want to confirm the statute?Oh, my God! We're back in the same situation as we are now. Clearly, you do not know this problem, and this is not how it can be solved. And again. Roma are Slovenian citizens, but those who are here and who are so defined, with all rights and, of course, also with duties that they often do not fulfil. However, the problem of co-existence between the majority population and the Roma population must be addressed in a different way. Such a law leads to only greater discrimination between the majority population and the Roma population. And this also brings dissatisfaction to the Roma, many times also problems. There was much trouble or confusion when Roma candidates for municipal councillors were sought. And as I said, I would like to see in which municipal councils the Roma saints really contributed to a quicker solution to the problems that are present between the majority and the Roma population. So once again: if you confirm such a law - I believe you will - these problems will not be solved. There will be the same situation where the municipal council will not want to change its statutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. [[He's cancelling the debate.]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. In doing so, I remind you that if this amendment is not adopted, the debate and the vote on Article 6a are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that this amendment to Article 3 has not been adopted. This also makes the vote on the amendment to Article 6a irrelevant. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Procedurally, but colleague Tanka, if you talk about the materials for an extraordinary session, he'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u330	Peace in the hall! Do not disturb your head of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u331	Mr President, I'm predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you very much. In accordance with the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure, it is certain. [[Those who will not come back, please, just in case, take all the material away.]] We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. So, we're re-voting. We're voting. There are only 42 Members and Members present. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. The third vote will begin at 7 p.m. and 25 minutes. Please gather 44 Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-25-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u333	We continue the point and the adjournment of the meeting of the National Assembly. We turn to the third vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Please take places to vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. Bravo. So I note that there are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 9th regular session of the National Assembly. Before you leave, I ask you to listen. An extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the issues of the negotiating points of the Republic of Slovenia to the Republic of Croatia was convened for Monday, 28 September at 15:00. As you have already received notice, you will be able to accept the material on 27 September and 28 September, so it is written. Of course, we will try to make sure that the material is sooner and as soon as it reaches the National Assembly, we will let you know that you will be able to reach it. However, the material is, of course, marked by the level of confidentiality "classified" and will have to be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Secret Data Act. I would also like to inform you that a public presentation of the opinions on the proposal for a family code convened by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs for Monday is 28th. 9. 11 o'clock due to an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly postponed. The Chairman of the Committee and we ask everything for understanding, because, therefore, the meeting is closed, so the Security Services need time to prepare the Chamber for a closed session and cannot be used at this time for other purposes. That is why, of course, I ask once again for the understanding of both the President and the members of the Committee and those who will take part in this public presentation. A new public presentation date will be set later. I would also like to remind you to take all things, computers, documents, materials from the hall, because the hall will have to be prepared for a closed meeting of the National Assembly on Monday. Thank you very much.
