ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member, Mr Miran Potrč. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the agenda, let me point out that the National Assembly team last weekend in the composition of Ljubo Germič, Anton Anderlič, Anton Rop, Silva Črnugelj and Samo Bevk won first place at the 16th European Tennis Parliaments Championship. Congratulations. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] You can see the cup and a few lessons in the lobby of the hall. [[...]] We're moving to 3. Period of the day - that's a third defensive proposal for a law on supplements to the law on insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, before the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Magi Act. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u2	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, respectable colleague and colleague! The new insurance law was created with one purpose to finally end one unacceptable practice in our only mutual insurance company Mutually, where a handful of leading regional directors decided everything, decided what the owner and owner usually decide or the key element were members. Members are insured, 900 000 insured in the Republic of Slovenia. Because of the poor insurance law, most of the leaders in the Mutual have found themselves, and through the collection of powers and lax provisions in connection with the collection of powers under the Insurance Act, the owner has played a role. There have also been such eccentric cases where the regional directors themselves, with the powers gathered at the assembly, could have a sufficient majority to replace the supervisory councils and, consequently, decide on themselves. It was a clear conflict of interest, an entanglement of some separate functions between the authorities of this company and, therefore, a group of members of the Slovenian Democratic Party decided to regulate the stricter way of collecting powers for the Mutual Assembly as well as the possibility of convening a meeting of members of the Mutual. In fact, I am pleased that this proposal has also come across parts of the coalition, especially because this unfortunate insurance company has been shot with an affair. One of these is just happening. We know that it is a management crisis, that politically-set people at the head of this insurance company have begun to account inside this insurance company with those who do not share their position, and thus create additional pressure and an additional bad atmosphere not to say business in this insurance company. Let's remember what this insurance company has experienced in the past, property trials. Mr Jaklič, who has now flourished again during the period of this government, has again tried in some way to overthrow the insurers, to dominate and, consequently, to put the country in an unenviable position. Thus, the entire purchase of some affairs has been taking place with this insurance company in the past, and it is therefore right that, even in accordance with corporate practice and principles, certain issues be settled in connection with the gathering of powers with the assembly. In a way, we are partly satisfied with all the amendments that have actually changed the basic text of the applicants. He's been softened up a bit. For we have laid down stricter rules, both to collect powers and to prevent those who collect powers. And that is why we also have on this text, which was created after the amendments adopted in the second reading, additional amendments that go in the direction of collecting powers for only one assembly, not "may" - it is said that a slightly clearer dictatorship has been put in place here and that the powers gathered against them have been set at zero, which means that, as a result, the decisions voted with such powers are null and void. So, I propose that, honourable Members and Members, in this third reading, in today's debate, we improve this text in the light of the proposed amendments. With this, I think we will take a big step not only for the country, because additional health insurance is one of the important pillars of health insurance in this country in general, but especially for the insured, for the members of this insurance company who want to exercise their rights, their interests also through the assembly of their votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion, Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Honourable Members and Members, President-in-Office of the National Assembly. Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Insurance Act. The proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Act provides for the collection of powers to exercise the rights of members at the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly, organised as a meeting of all members, and for the reference of the Assembly to a proposal of a minority. The aim of the bill is to address the issue of decision-making provisions by achieving the interests and rights enjoyed by members or insurers of the mutual insurance company. It follows from the explanation of the basic proposal that it is essential for the applicant to settle these issues for a specific company, in which case the Ljubljana Mutual Health Insurance Company, in which it is intended to have the greatest decision-making power of its employees at the assembly, should have the powers to receive them for an indefinite period of time. It should be noted that the Mutual Health Insurance Company was established by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act 1998. This law laid down the conditions for the establishment of a special insurance company in the form of a mutual insurance company to which the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance transferred the entire insurance portfolio of voluntary health insurance for payments. On the basis of the examination of the Proposal for an Insurance Complementation Act, the Government estimates that the aim of the applicant was to try to regulate certain specificities in the collection of powers that would apply only to the Ljubljana Mutual Health Insurance Company, and therefore the Government considers that these specifications should certainly be regulated in the law by which this mutual insurance company was established, it is said, in the amendments to this Act, not in the general system law. The Government’s view is that the regulatory regulation of the specific characteristics of a company, such as the Mutual Health Insurance Company Ljubljana, is by no means part of the content of the Insurance Act, which is a general and systemic law governing the operation of both insurance undertakings which have the status of a share company and insurance undertakings which have the status of a mutual insurance company. This position is also fully supported by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Insurance Association of Slovenia. In preparing the Government's opinion, the Ministry of Finance also consulted representatives of the Ministry of Health, which also rejects the proposal for amendments to the law, while at the same time possessing information that the Ministry of Health is preparing a new law on health care and health insurance, which is intended to reorganise the entire area of voluntary health insurance. Dear Members and Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to take into account the considerations in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when adopting the Law on the Complements of the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Willi Trophynik will present his position. He's not here. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. For the area we are talking about, the financial industry has been characterised for the last period by the fact that it has been extremely dominant, that it has been extremely flexible fast, innovative, etc. and that regulation is often, and control has also dripped for this industry. This is where insurance belongs. The DeSUS Group, because of what has been presented in the course of the adoption of this Act, is also initially favoured by the proposaler and the need to amend the legislation, knowing that the placement in this law is poor. In the meantime, a large number of debates, compromises, amendments have taken place, which have improved some parts of the text, and in the DeSUS Group, we believe that a compromise solution is worth our support. Just as the financial industry and insurance with it have increased its impact, as it has been innovative, has invented new financial instruments, has avoided supervision, so has the ability to empower small owners by function, by the role it has played, so we consider that the measures needed to minimise this will prevent it, so that it will be as much a manipulation of interests as possible and that those who own it will really reach the possibility of exercising their interests through representatives of the assembly. In March, the Group of Members and Members tabled a proposal for a law that did not meet the Government's support and we know the reasons given by the Government in rejecting this law. We also know the reasons or opinions and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, which are also valid and worthy of consideration. We therefore have to weigh whether these reasons are strong enough to make this law inappropriate, and we were not waiting for it to come to our bench - not knowing exactly when-, some new law, but in the meantime, manipulation and taking over the functions of owners can take place smoothly. We believe that, with decisions that have been different in the National Assembly and in the working bodies since the decisions or positions of the Government, even different from the Council of State and those that Mr Minister originally listed today, but have changed their decision and the Members and Members of Parliament, we have provided support in the National Assembly for this ambition, which the proponents have highlighted, modified it and, at least, in the DeSUS Group, so modified. We estimate that the way of collecting signatures has changed, that the deadlines have changed, that it has given the possibility of influencing small owners, that the impact of those who have so far had so much in their hands is dramatically limited - so that these amendments and these provisions in the law are appropriate and allow for better, better quality and more fair management of the only mutual insurance company in our country. These are the reasons why - indeed the Government does not support this, that the State Council does not support it, but also some other agencies and organisations - we support and judge that we are on the right track, at least until the time when this is really regulated in another law, we prevent the possibility of manipulation, abuse and all that has happened in the past with regard to the insurance company. We know that the system, consisting of 900,000 members, is extremely complicated. We know that it is very difficult to expect that in reality all the interests of small insurers will come to the fore. We also know that this bill, if adopted, has not yet ruled out all possibilities of manipulation. We know that it will be extremely difficult to convince such a crowd of people to comply with the forms, to deal with bureaucracy, and it will also be very difficult to monitor it, to control everything else that will be involved. However, we estimate that this is a step further from when all decision-making power was really too concentrated in just a few hands. So these are the reasons why in the DeSUS Group we will support this bill, which has already been amended twice, on the Committee and in the National Assembly. But I'm not sure we'll support both of these amendments. I myself have doubts about them, and if it turns out in the debate that my concerns are not justified, I am prepared with my colleagues to also talk about this and to see whether the additional amendments are worth supporting or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with the team! Much has already been said about the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Insurance Act. Let me start by stressing the point. The point is, what we now often find in the consideration of laws, is that two parties that coordinate, who want to find a solution, are by no means found. It is good to say that it would be good to make a law on insurance, a new law that would be good, which would be appropriate, which would be correct, which would legally abstain, which would be in line with the directives of the European Union, but which is not the case and must be found solutions. You know well that the first and second reading of this law was a great deal: a single or double-tier system, a way of managing, managing, and a lot of content. The worst part was that the law was written on the one hand, despite the fact that the Law-Legal Service could not cooperate, because the Rules of Procedure were such that it did not cooperate. And after the law has been written, there are several comments and amendments to articles such as articles of the law, which, of course, is unacceptable to the executive branch of power and, above all, to the legislative branch of power. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Insurance Act if it is supplemented as we have heard from the first speaker today. The fact is, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that we must ensure that the rights of the Assembly are exercised by the members, not by the administration. The fact is, we cannot accept the truth that the only right of a few hundred thousand members would be to help with capital adequacy and be those who would recapitalise such or otherwise. Of course, we can't let that happen. The direction of the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Insurance Act is on the right track. Once again, if the amendments are supported, the Slovenian National Party will still support the amendments and also the law; if not, everyone will decide on their own conscience. However, I expect, because we have a memory a little longer for some content, some quickly lose it to expect a quality new insurance law so that it will not be spent so much time and effort for some unspecified content. Let me finish. In the event that amendments are adopted, the Slovenian National Party will adopt a proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Law on Supplements to the Insurance Act, which is regulated by insurance companies, including insurance companies which have a status form d.d., as well as insurance undertakings which have a statistical form of mutual insurance company. This law therefore contains general provisions applicable to all insurance undertakings. Why am I stressing this? In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we cannot get rid of the feeling that the proposed solutions, which are before us, are intended to address certain issues for a specific society, namely the Ljubljana Mutual Health Insurance Company, established on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act 1998. We are asked whether it is appropriate in the system law to regulate matter in a way that solves the problems of a particular legal person. Whether these same provisions will be acceptable and rational for any other mutual insurance undertakings that may arise under this law in the future is, of course, an issue. We certainly agree that, in the case of a congregation organised as a meeting of members, the current rules of the Ombudsman are totally inappropriate in Article 54 - of course, if we have a concrete mutual insurance company in mind. Even if this provision can be misused in such a way that the powers are collected in a way that the directors of regional business units can accumulate them in their own hands, without a time limit and without any substantive guidance to decide on the specific issues decided by the Assembly, even in the absence of formal arrangements for the organised collection of powers. We find it particularly controversial because, in fact, the same persons decide both in the role of owners - the Assembly and in the role of administration - so the directors. These are applications which, due to conflicts of interest under the general provisions of the Company Act, should be separate. On the other hand, the proposed law in Article 2 governs the collection of powers differently from that of the Company Act. The proponents of this solution did not convince us of the need for such a solution. In the opinion of our Group, it would be legally consistent and fully satisfactory to summarise the solution contained in the Company Act. We are also afraid that such a solution, as proposed, will not prevent the concentration of decision-making in the hands of some resourceful individuals, but will only make it easier. The composition of the Assembly and the way in which the powers are collected may lead to a decision-making at the majority assembly, which will be measured in the course of the members. Our main criticism therefore relates to the non-systemic approach to the problem. If the Mutual Insurance Company requires a different arrangement, then this should be resolved in a different way, by preparing a special law to regulate specificities that will apply only to the Mutual Health Insurance Company d.v.z. Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Minister and coworkers and, colleagues and colleagues, all of you. We are certainly talking today about the necessary and important topic in which, like many times in the life of the solution and the end of the road is never complete, ideal, but especially predictable, so I must say that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we attach to colleagues of the law that where the area is unregulated, something must be done. And when it comes to the protection of the rights of more than 900 thousand members of the Mutual, then it is essential to us what we will achieve with this law, rather than who has introduced the law and the political aspects, that is why we certainly attach this to the reflection of our colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. The area needs to be further and better regulated; it is certainly what the government representatives say and what was heard from my colleagues before me that the approach is not systematic, that it is not comprehensive, that it is not complete. But in a time of economic crisis, when we are forced to put out fires, to change laws repeatedly, we can certainly overlook that. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we want a law that will be written on the skin of the insured, not the administration, which, of course, over the past ten years, has proved that it is always found, turned around and put on the right hand side what is just the best. I have to say that we want an insurance company with which to be satisfied with the board of directors as well. But we also have insurers when we learn to share, and we certainly have our share of the blame. Let's see, a hand on the heart, a lot of times when applications come, requests for powers, just swings your hand, saying, "I don't have a direct impact on this matter." If the insured know how to organise themselves and that we will be better committed or aware of our rights and duties, then the decisions of the administration will also be better. One of the important things we see in the Liberal Democracy Club on this subject is that the system approach is desirable, welcome that we will have other insurance companies once in the future, but until then I think it will be a while, and therefore, if we regulate a concrete mutual insurance company, an insurance company that combines 900 Slovenes and Slovenians, there is nothing wrong with it. We also welcome the spirit and support the new setting of rules. They are not ideal, but they are more transparent and transparent to simply limit these regional exposures to the collection of powers. As for the amendments that have been tabled: the amendment to Article 2 we believe that the word "may" remains, can also be deleted but is not essential. The legal meaning of this Article is not significantly different. We certainly agree, however, that if we have gone into amending the law, if we have laid down the rules of the game, how the powers are to be collected, and if the last article of this amendment states that "the powers gathered in contravention of the provisions of this law are null and void" that this is a matter that stands and is fine. That is why we will decide in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia what is best for 900 thousand members of the Mutual. However, the final decision will, as always, follow the debate on the amendments in accordance with its conviction and conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you. Dr. Luka Juri will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u14	Nice greetings, workmates and coworkers. The Law on Amendments to the Insurance Act is a good example of how a constructive part of the coalition and the opposition can lead to a good final proposal, which in fact represents a deliberate and necessary improvement in the area of mutual insurance. With them we will better regulate the area of citation, management and collection of powers for mutual insurance assemblies, which in practice currently applies only to one insurance undertaking, Mutually. We are of the opinion that this area has been poorly regulated so far, since it has given the Joint Insurance Office itself too much authority to refer and manage, which has thus easily controlled the progress of the Assembly and has been able to take decisions, of course, involving all those who determine the very fate of the supervisors and, consequently, the administration of the Mutual Insurance Office, so strongly, to the extent that it has taken over the function of the owner in fact and illegally, although legally. Such a double role is, in our view, unacceptable. In carrying out the functions of the manager, the new regime will actually commit itself to the administration. The board will therefore manage and no longer, the Supervisory Board will supervise, and ownership will in fact return to legitimate beneficiaries, members and members of the mutual insurance company. With the new regulation, employees will no longer be able to collect powers, with which some leaders, in particular directors of regional units or even members of the administration themselves, have been actively engaged so far. The powers will no longer be permanent, but they will apply to each congregation individually, thus preventing the collection of the powers of members of the mutual insurance company from being held in stock. Nor will the Governing Board no longer appoint a president of the Assembly, who may be a very important or even deciding actor at the very beginning of the Assembly’s work. Similarly, if at least 1.5% of all are to be collected, members of the mutual insurance undertaking themselves will be able to request the Assembly’s appeal and the consideration of the required agenda items. Such a change is particularly important in the light of recent events currently taking place at the only mutual insurance company in Slovenia in the Mutual, which cannot be proud of an economic society of more than 900 000 members and practically half of the Slovenian population. The administration and, above all, its President will now be much more at risk and under the gallows of the members of his insurance company; and that is correct. Of course, we are aware that there are also a few questions in the new regulation, if adopted, that we will have to wait for the practical application of the law to be answered. While the previous arrangement allowed for the management of powers and thus ownership by the management of a mutual insurance undertaking, the new does not ensure that the powers can be equally collected by all. Larger companies and organisations that can easily reach their members will be able to obtain powers more easily and more quickly than, say, ordinary citizens or citizens. Therefore, it will be necessary to follow closely the new situation created by this amendment and to assess objectively whether further improvements are necessary. This is expected in the announced new law, which is intended to respond comprehensively to all open mutual insurance issues. Social Democrats are very close to the concept of reciprocity, because one of those answers is to classical shareholders, where, as we may have felt on our own, Slovenian citizens and citizens, many abuses, deceptions and even managerial acquisitions are possible. It's also close to us because of the double role of mutual insurance. Through the principle of reciprocity, ensure that insurance costs are as low as possible, while at the same time ensuring that people are effectively co-managed by an undertaking that is technically comparable to their co-owners. Since the proposed amendments to the law strengthen these two, and since this is certainly part of the social democratic guidelines, the social democrats will be supported by the proposed changes to the law, as they were made over several months of work and coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that the National Assembly adopted, at its second reading, the amendments to the Insurance Act at its previous meeting. It is also good that the law in consideration, in quality treatment, has been further upgraded and improved by the amendments adopted. Perhaps there is very little in this final reading, which we have before us today at third reading, to come up with a really clean and undisputed text. We can reach it in such a way that we can all jointly support the amendment that we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for this purpose. We are also pleased by the Government's ambition that in the future this solution, which we estimate will be upgraded by the new law in view of the support expressed earlier today. However, it is urgent, and this has also been expressed in the views of the other parliamentary groups, to regulate the area as soon as possible and to in some way establish a normal relationship in the exercise of management or ownership entitlements. Indeed, a truly specific insurance company, a special shareholder company of 900,000 insurers, is mutual, but it is quite clear that it was not intended - even when the law now in force was adopted - for a handful of leaders to decide on this insurance company. It was not intended for two or three people to decide on decisions involving all 900,000 insurers and insurers, nor was it intended to express through the Mutual Agreement any other ambitions that were not in line with the principles for which this insurance undertaking was established. And one of the steps in this direction to make it possible for us to make a more transparent and more normal decision-making approach, and in particular to ensure greater entitlements for those who also set up the Mutual is, of course, this amendment to the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not have any illusions that when this law is passed, all 900,000 insurers and insurers will begin to exercise their rights. Far from it! We believe, however, that this change paves the way for a more normal situation, for those who are members of the Mutual to also be aware of their rights and responsibilities and, on the other hand, to be able to fully exercise these entitlements. If you'll excuse me, a few more words about the amendments that have been tabled for third treatment. With regard to the first amendment, which proposes to delete the word'may', much has already been said in the second reading. At that time, we somehow estimated that this "may" might have slipped into this text or, after the awkwardness of this text, remained. We therefore propose that this word be deleted, but it is not as insignificant as it may seem at first sight. If we delete that word, it means that powers will have to be collected for each assembly individually, which is the only right, which is also comparable to the provisions of the Company Act applicable to other shareholders, and we do not see any reason why this company, which is actually operating under a specific principle and law, would be an exception. Thus, we feel that it is right that powers to avoid such or other abuses are collected for each congregation individually. And the second amendment, which speaks of nullity, is, in our view, important because, at least in the first period when these changes will enter into force and will take place for a certain period of time, for a new practice, there are likely to have been cases where only after the Assembly has just been concluded did something wrong in this procedure, which is a condition for the legitimate exercise of the Assembly. If the diction that is now recorded in this law, which has been adopted in the second reading, remains, then this corrective step cannot be done. Thus, this condition that the decisions taken at such a meeting are considered null and void that "ex leges" are known to be at any time to be challenged or absent. We therefore propose that, with the second amendment, the adoption of this second amendment, which we propose, also regulate this area in such a way as to ensure legal certainty and that it will also take effect after the assembly has been concluded. So, to sum up, I think that the efforts made so far in the National Assembly, first by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which has proposed these solutions, and then by all the others who have participated in co-forming and upgrading these solutions, are good for us to come up with one quality solution and that by adopting these two amendments, which are now being tabled in the third reading, these solutions will be upgraded accordingly. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support both amendments and the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. First of all, Mr. Rezman has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Anderlich, too. Mr. Likar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. One of the tasks of the National Assembly as the legislative branch of government is that the laws and regulations we adopt here are as clear as possible and with as little doubt as possible about the way these are implemented. With this amendment to Article 2, we wish to make it clear and unequivocally that the Commissioners must collect powers for each assembly individually and not only that they are given this option. In this way, members or insurers will be given the opportunity to take decisions in the congregations to the fullest extent possible in order to exercise their interests. Last but not least, such an arrangement is also in the Law on Economic Companies, which provides for an organised collection of powers to be exercised only by one assembly. Of course, it must also be made clear that, contrary to these, the powers gathered have been determined null and void, which is also what we wanted to achieve with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Well, there may be one additional explanation in particular for these changes, although a particular debate on amendments is then envisaged. Article 54a, first paragraph, states that the plenipotentiaries may collect powers for each assembly individually. The provision is not very clear, it is ambiguous, and it is also not right to be introduced into the law in this way. For this reason, we propose that this word, which leaves doubts about appropriateness, be deleted. The second point, which is somehow essential, is related to the ninth paragraph of this article, which speaks of the fact that the powers gathered in contravention of the provisions of the preceding paragraphs cannot be exercised by voting rights in the assembly. The amendment suggests that such powers are null and void. What's the difference? The difference is that, in view of the extremely strict provisions governing the collection of these powers, there will certainly be at least a first period of cases where the non-compliance with the powers will be demonstrated only after the Assembly has been carried out. And in such a case there is no correctional examination or no possibility; although some lawsuits are possible and so on, this is not the purpose of the law. The purpose of the law must be that the rules of the game are clear and unequivocal. And in this case, I think that the provision on the nullity of such powers is very clear and is in the interest of ensuring the safety of all those who will intervene in accordance with the law and who will wish to exercise these rights. In short, we protect the interests of insurers and insurers with this provision and introduce some clarity, including nomotechnical clarity, into the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Bezjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased that we have finally found a common consensus, all political parties, on the new insurance law. After all, as it has been so far, we are all convinced that it has not been right for 900,000 insured people to actually decide on about 10 individuals. From this point of view, it is very important that we add now, as has already been presented, and support these two SDS amendments, so that there will be no more ambiguities and machinations. For such an insurance, as it has been before, leads nowhere. We ourselves know that in the past there have been many thoughts about whether to create a single system or a double system and what would be better. Surely the most important thing is to make a law as it must be, not allowing any hole in the system, because the Slovenians are known that the law is not yet outside, and they are already looking for holes in it to drive thirsty people across the water. It is therefore important, honourable Members, that we actually follow these two amendments, which accurately define positions, and we will all take a major step forward in the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you. I would like to reiterate on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that we are talking today about this proposal for a law amending the law, we have probably all heard on the left and on the right in good faith that we want to do something better, better, more transparent, more fair with this addition. That's right. However, I reiterate what I said in the introduction, that we expect to see a roof law that will be fully clear. When I listened to the other colleagues, because I say it's good to listen more, so we have two ears one mouth - the more we listen to what we say - the colleagues on my left were right when they doubt it or when they think it's actually a top law, the Law on Economic Activities and the amendment of one law change some of the provisions that are covered there. I don't know, I'm not like the Government proposing laws, I'm not even a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, but I'm a legislative branch of government that can easily think about what's good and what's not. And I think that in this direction it is now necessary to determine whether by adopting this proposal for a law amending the law we are talking about, insurance, we will achieve some positive, some good effects, under the conditions of course that this law must be completely overturned or set out in the Economic Activity Act. I agree with Mr Žerjav when he says that the provisions of the ZGD must apply equally to everyone, whether it is an insurance company or all those who are obliged to respect this law. You know, I imagine that, and my colleagues at the Slovenian National Party, so that if we crash, if we can stay in the sea, we have two options: whether we swim in some direction in the hope of going to the mainland, or if we take some board and hope that the current will bring us to the mainland; but in both of these cases we do not know whether we will reach the mainland or not. That's a comparison I'm making. I believe that everyone hopes for a good cause, that is to say, to achieve the land, whether we will or not, and we don't know that today. And with such changes, we sometimes put out fires and rush into hope, which is not good. That is why I am glad that the debate has taken place, even though, in my opinion and in my colleagues' judgement, insurance through first and second treatment is a little too much, and that in the end you can no longer know what you are talking about, where we are, what will be the solution, what will not be. More people know. I would like to stress that we will adopt this law, confirm this law in good faith, that we are doing more transparent, fairer, and we hope that we will help someone, that something good will come from it. However, we still insist on the need to regulate roof laws, both of which I have mentioned, both on insurance and possibly on the Company Act. I am pleased that today's debate is more substantively in depth, that it is not politically oriented, left - right and right - left, but that we are trying to find solutions together. The Slovenian national party will, as always, contribute constructively to this, in the hope that we will all eventually be united at the time of the adoption of the amendments, which are very important, as well as the adoption of this law amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u26	Nicely greeted! Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, Mr. Vice-President, here present colleagues! Much has already been said today, and it is my wish that there will be as many legislative procedures as possible, as well as debates, when amending laws or adopting them in such a way as in the specific insurance law. The importance and functioning of the insurance company Mutual and in particular 900 members of the Mutual in the Republic of Slovenia are probably not to be lost words, as we know it is extremely large. However, it is right that insurance rights are protected, as this insurance company is also established, and it is right that the law will be written on the skin of the insured, i.e. those who are beneficiaries who are insured, not those whose task is to manage or manage this insurance undertaking successfully. Therefore, I think that the debate on this subject today has been a timely one and that it is also right that matters be dealt with in such a way that there are no doubts, dilemmas or any irregularities found in the audit reviews and then also in the reports. It is true, however, that, as we say, the stick has two ends, even in the case of the Mutual, to look at the side of the members, as has been said today: the signature of the mandate does not mean just some way to get rid of co-ordination, co-decision in important matters. Therefore, I also assess that, for the members of the Mutual, i.e. the insurers, it is of utmost importance that in the very important decisions themselves, i.e. in the congregations and signatures of powers, they only think carefully, stand together and here also discuss concrete problems, possible doubts, as has already been said today - it can happen. Of course, amendments are still in place, which are complementary to or even more exact to certain matters. However, it is never so good that it will not happen to us that we may still be this year or a year later, two of us have found that we have missed something or that we can improve something else. Therefore, I myself will support this change. I am pleased that today's debate is here too, whether we are sitting on this side or on that side, I like it very much, but I wish that in all this cooperation, even at the next points of the meeting of the National Assembly, that they can be as proper as possible to each other. I will support this change of law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Visjak has the word - he's giving up. Mr. Yuri. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In the present debate, however, a brief discussion has been repeated on the one hand, what we have already said in the presentation of positions, so that I will not respond to this. On the other hand, a short analysis of the proposed amendments was also opened. Personally, I think that the amendments are better clarified and give the law the effectiveness that could otherwise be lacking or without which the law could only cause more problems than it could solve. So it is my personal view that these two amendments are worth considering positively, and I am pleased, as it seems, that we will end this story constructively today and that the law will soon enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Would you like a minister? You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u31	And also, Mr. Visac as a proponent? No, no, no. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the amendments of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? I see one hand. Mr. Visjak, please be your candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u32	Look, this amendment is very important and very simple. It proposes deleting the word "may", namely the ambition of the amendment, that it is clearly stated that the powers for each assembly are specifically collected. For if there is "may" left in there, then there will never be a special assembly, because everyone will go to that, because that is an option, but the possibility is also that for more congregations we collect powers and, of course, such an open possibility allows abuse and we want to prevent it. For we know the ingenuity of the people who have done so far with these powers, they have run out of channels to collect these powers. For this reason, I believe that the deletion of the word "may" and the specific collection of powers for each assembly would achieve this primary purpose, which was also introduced by the motioners with the novel itself. So, an important amendment, and I think it deserves support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you. Anyone else? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public finances. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Križanič, Minister of Finance, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Dear President! Allow me to present a proposal for amendments to the Public Finance Act. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance is prepared only to the extent necessary to avoid the consequences of possible disruptions to the functioning of the financial system in the current financial and economic crisis. At the same time, the amendment of this law seeks to ensure that the measures taken to mitigate this crisis are implemented in a way that will enable the envisaged objectives of these measures to be achieved. In addition to the proposed law, the legal basis for the establishment of a fiscal council as an advisory body of the Government or civil society is laid down. Article 1 of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Finance provides for two new types of assigned revenue, namely the revenue from environmental pollution benefits resulting from the removal of waste water and the revenue from environmental pollution taxes due to waste disposal. There is no doubt that the dedicated revenue of the budget is those set out in the Public Finance Act, and the assigned revenue is also the revenue set out in the annual budget implementation law or those set out in the expenditure to be used for the adoption of the municipal budget. The Law on the Financing of Municipalities defines the revenue from environmental taxes on environmental pollution due to the removal of waste water and the revenue from environmental taxes on environmental pollution caused by waste disposal in accordance with European Union rules as the assigned revenue of municipal budgets. This means that all municipalities, each in their own decree adopting the municipal budget, should set those revenues as earmarked, since otherwise these revenues would be treated only as the revenues of the municipality’s integrated budget. Since the obligation of dedicated spending for all municipalities can only be laid down in the Public Finance Act and, in order to prevent the different conduct of the municipalities, there can be no doubt that the proposed regulation is reasonable and appropriate. Article 2 of the proposal of this Act will provide an appropriate basis for the transfer of EAGF funds [[It's a country's single account.]] up to three years. The reason for such regulation is in the latest amendment to the Public Finance Act adopted at the end of the previous year, which allowed the State to impose an additional amount for the implementation of the State budget in the current financial year to pay off the principal of the sovereign budget due due in the next two financial years and consequently to pursue the objective of achieving, to the maximum extent possible, the neutralisation of the additional debt carried out. As additional debt applies only to the State, the holding of deposits shall be carried out only in the single treasury account system of the State and not in the single treasury account system of the municipalities. In addition to that proposal, this Article lays down, in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, who manages the funds of the single treasury account of the State or municipalities and provides for the obligation to register with the AJPES. Article 3 of the proposal of this Act aims to reduce the exposure to the risks of money management and to regulate the prohibition of the conclusion of those lending transactions which are intended for so-called manager purchases of equity in companies. The prohibition on the conclusion of bank transactions intended to buy out shares or shares of companies by members of management and companies and related persons shall be limited to cases where there has been a breach of the law on the market in financial instruments, takeover legislation or in their operations of a found infringement of competition. It is envisaged to monitor compliance with these restrictions, to be implemented by the Ministry responsible for finance. To this end, the Ministry of Finance has the right to request information from recipients of State aid or guarantors of the guarantee scheme on transactions subject to restriction. The proposal for this Article, as a sanction, provides for the nullity of transactions which have been concluded in contravention of the prohibition and the procedure itself is carried out by a public defender. These are two levels of limitation: no internal redemption credit may be granted with State aid and no such credits may be granted or extended at all by financial institutions if they are included in State aid and if the recipient of such loans has infringed the acquisition or the law of market concentration. Finally, Article 4 lays the basis for the establishment of a fiscal world as an advisory body of the Government and body [[...]] [[End warning sign]] companies which will draw up their views on all the measures proposed by the Government. As an independent expert body, it will be competent to provide an independent assessment of the public financial policy and the implementation of structural reforms, or an assessment of the consistency of public financial policy with the objectives set out in the annual budget. The establishment of the fiscal world is justified as annual and medium-term forecasts of macroeconomic objectives must be as objective as possible as a basis for setting public funding targets for the current 2 years and for the medium term. [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] or carry out macroeconomic forecasts and comparable institutions in other countries as well. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi Committee. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 13th urgent session. 6. 2009 and following by the meeting 16. 6. 2009 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Finance, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal to examine and adopt the law submitted under the urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Services, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect. The Service made comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 of the draft law and also pointed to the lack or ambiguity of the explanations of individual proposed articles or solutions. The comments of the service to Article 1 shall be taken into account in the Committee's adopted amendment to Article 1 below. Most of the comments made by the service under the old Article are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the three coalition parliamentary groups, which were also adopted by the Committee. In addition, the drafter provided a detailed explanation of the provisions of Article 2 in writing. The proposed law has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 and by the Social Democrats' Group of Members of Parliament, Mr Res and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia on Articles 2, 3, 4 and 6. In the introduction to the explanations of the articles, the Minister of Finance, as a representative of the law's proposers, lays down the basis for a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. He stressed, inter alia, that, by amending Article 68 of the current law, in order to invest money in the Single Account system, the State would allow for a more flexible operation of the Treasury for a maximum of three years in order to address the consequences of the financial crisis or prevent a credit crunch. In the debate on individual proposed solutions and amendments tabled, the Committee's members paid the highest attention to issues related to the prohibition of transactions in respect of loans intended to finance so-called managers' purchases of equity shares in companies. Various opinions and assessments were expressed on the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the provisions of Article 3 of the amendment. With regard to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 2 of the Proposal for a Law on the basis of which an integral part of the report on the implementation of the budget, as well as a report on the effectiveness, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the implementation of the single treasury account system and the management of the free money in legal persons' accounts included in this system, would be included. However, the correctness and usefulness of carrying out these funds would be subject to an audit every year. The representative of the bill's proposer stressed that such a solution was not acceptable. The debaters also paid some attention to the proposed establishment of the fiscal world. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4 and 6. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 3 and 4 have not been adopted and have not been defined until the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 2 and 4, as they have become irrelevant as a result of the decisions taken by the Committee. In the light of the amendments adopted and not adopted, Article 5(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which forms an integral part of this report, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The DeSUS Group will provide support for this bill because we assess that the Government is right when it considers that otherwise it would be difficult to correct and when it considers that we must do what needs to be done immediately. It has therefore also proposed a procedure whereby we adopt an urgent procedure. This is probably the result of a government assessment assessing the situation in the financial market and in the real sector market, which no one can view as good or as satisfactory. It is likely that such an assessment by the Government implies that the measures so far have not been effective enough to be sufficiently timely or fast enough, and that the forms of State aid, whether it is lending to credit institutions or whether it is a financial investment, whether it is a possibility of redemption or whether it is a possibility of State aid, have not been captured in such a way that the real economy can start again with some start-up activity. These State aid measures may be slightly more successful in the financial sector, in the financial industry sector. The real sector still bears a heavy burden, which makes it kneel more than it stands. This means that the financial upheaval has not yet failed to allow liquidity problems to plague our economy and that, as a result, as real growth is falling, we must invest much more in organising and maintaining the social network. At the same time, the government wants to prevent these State aids from being misused. To be used contrary to the purpose and purpose or to be abused in any way. It has therefore also provided adequate control and has threatened with appropriate sanctions for those who have infringed. In order to prevent the use of funds for other purposes than she would have wanted, it went beyond banning the lending of management credits to credit by a decision of the Supervisory Board and preventing possible business damage to the borrower to the limits when the three areas of legislation were breached, which are also mentioned in the law. This is a market for financial instruments, acquisitions and competition. The government, however, is introducing some new developments with this law. With regard to the news that is trying to prevent local communities from misinterpreting duties and the environment as assigned revenue, we in the DeSUS Group agree that this should be properly regulated in law. As for the new institute, which some consider to be toothless, financial world, we consider to be worthy of support. Not to imply unnecessary duplication of institutions that are already engaged in decent analyses, assessments and recommendations and that allow for a greater selection of assessments that will be the basis for our government's policy-making. It should be stressed that there are two functions of this world. One function is the function of monitoring public finances, using, loading and so on. And secondly, I think it's more of a forecast of structural change. These include monitoring demographic trends and probably recommending measures in the field of health, pension and disability insurance. We hope that this will be the case for Almunio in the form of a multiple, that there will be no seven people here who will understand these two systems in a neoliberal and extreme manner, so we will be very careful to monitor the work of the fiscal Council in the area of the preparation of structural reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. We understand, we went constructively, and we approached the review. We understand that the main solution is to reduce exposure to cash management risks. Point 1 and point 2. - regulation of the prohibition of the conclusion of loan transactions intended for so-called management purchases of equity shares in enterprises. Fair enough. The law was supposed to achieve this goal. But all of this stops and I am confident of it and I hope to prove it, on the proposal or basis for the establishment of a fiscal council as an independent body for independent evaluation of public financial policy and the implementation of structural reforms. And now I ask very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Why is this fiscal world needed? Who needs it? What's he gonna do? What will be the effects of his work, with all the millions of jobs, the millions of jobs we have? We have a bunch of services within individual ministries that carry out such and different analyses, inspections, controls, financial, I don't know what else I don't invent, where you look at a million of these services. The biggest nonsense in all of this is that this service, which already is, will be with the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We do have the secretary-general of Mr Squeaks there, and he's already too smart anyway, as far as finance is concerned. Does he have to have another job now to do something with him that everyone else is already doing? In order not to fall under the provision of Article 4, which speaks of a fiscal world that it will have seven members, four of which must be Slovenians. What else? That's too bad. Why? Make it seven strangers. What nebulosis, what nonsense. That's a joke from people. We have an UMAR. If it's this job, it should be in the Treasury Department. Just like we did yesterday, and we put technology traffic, we put traffic in high school, we gave it to Mr. Golobic, if you say, "You have your company here so you can steal what you didn't know before." Are we now going to give fiscal advice to Mr. Brickle in the General Secretariat? What else? Then let us put European affairs on the Committee on the Economy or on the Ministry of the Economy. Let's move to the Ministry of Health. What nonsense we're doing. I understand that this government wants to have a law that would reduce exposure to risks and prohibit the conclusion of those transactions that are dirty, but not by setting up a fiscal world that has nothing to do with it. But now this one will supervise the supervisor who controls the supervisor and the supervisor controls the contractor or what? And we're talking here, it's completely unclear to me right now, about the proposal for a law that introduces new types of dedicated revenue from the environmental tax on environmental pollution, for decommissioning and so on. The provisions of the proposed law are necessary because the revenue of the municipal budgets are listed and otherwise their intention would be linked to the decision of the individual municipality. If anyone can explain this sentence to me, I'll sign his doctorate if I have that authority. In the meantime, as I understand it, we do not have these content regulated in the relevant environmental laws, ladies and gentlemen. And this law, I'm sorry, despite the good intentions, was a complete stalemate, as it turned out at the first meeting of the Finance Committee, and I didn't go to the second one, because I preferred to handle municipal affairs at 5 a.m. and I'm not going to kick at 8 a.m. because the government, I don't blame the individual, the government very flatly, superficially and, forgive the expression, negligently prepared this law. So we had to meet again, you had to meet again. And today is no better. The SNS won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will translate the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to postpone the formation of this law and the criticism of it. On 7 May, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. On 14 May, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdraws a draft law submitted a week ago and submits a new one. On 4 June, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdrew its proposed law for the second time and filed a new one for the third time. On 8 June, we get an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is larger than the scope of the bill itself. On 10 June, the Committee on Finance and the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Anton Rop, also to my disdain, interrupts the meeting with the words: "I must say that I, as Chairman and Chairman of this Committee, do not hope to lead this meeting of the Committee. So here is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to prepare this committee meeting. Now we have come to the point of breaking this point and continuing after the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service have thoroughly discussed and prepared any amendments to the Committee." I can't say anything but shame, disaster. It is a shame for the Ministry of Finance, a disgrace to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that such important projects are carried out with such superficiality and irresponsibility. Slovenia and the Slovenian economy of pokat by seams, measures from nowhere. What comes into the procedure of the National Assembly is prepared at the level of operation of the Ballard Society, not to say anything worse. Of course, as we're used to this coalition, it prefers to deal with itself and solve its own problems. Let us recall the so-called Squeakle Act and argue on which chair Mr Erjavec will sit and argue about Rupl and Veselinovic and, of course, for the last 10 days, when the entire coalition infrastructure, with the president of the country at the helm, was engaged in a rescue project for Minister Golobic. And what about the very law before us? It would be responsible of the entire Slovenian policy, without going to this place to who is basically responsible for the origin of the tycoon stories - according to my assessment, the entire Slovenian policy, but in the future, to prevent such a matter from being repeated, and not to support the new measures that have already begun. The solutions should be directed primarily to the economy and to the mitigation of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, I find that this is not the case in this law. The government even legitimizes good and bad tycoons and allows the continuation of tycoon stories and even the opening of new ones. In the parliamentary group of such a bill, we will never, ever and never, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you! Thank you for your word and say hello to the Minister and co-workers! In such debates and at such times, when faced with a crisis, it is nice to place on a scale, who is in favour of a substantive solution to the problems, and what is in favour of compiling political points for any of the parties. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we assess - Mr President, Mr Petan has a proposal, a distraction and an end to my debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u45	I didn't see him raise his hand, and even if I did, I'd give him my word after you're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u46	Then I ask for a warning not to disturb the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u47	Please, he's the only one with the word he's given to the chairman!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your support, and I hope that you will take the next step. In the short term, we estimate that the most important part of the proposal is the part that will allow the country's deposits to be renewed in business banks from one to three years. This is a temporary release of the Republic of Slovenia, the source of which is mainly the issue of the euro market bonds of the Republic of Slovenia. The extension of the maturity of deposits means direct assistance to business banks as they will obtain an additional quality long-term resource through this measure. It is therefore a measure which, in addition to the measures already taken, will work towards the weakening of the credit crunch. At the same time, it should be stressed that the country's short-term assets in business banks currently amount to just over EUR 3 billion. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome the change that will allow for a more flexible activity of the treasury in dealing with the consequences of the financial crisis. The second part of the story that we think is important and must be highlighted is the novelty of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of a Fiscal Council, which will be composed of top experts in the field of public finances. Of course, the fiscal world on the one hand means a certain cost, a certain burden, but on the other hand, at a clear presentation and a good part of the fiscal world, positive moments for public finances are essential, significantly more. It's an extremely modern body that's already operating in a number of developed countries. Its establishment is on the condition that Slovenia, by entering the euro area, has finally lost its monetary policy and the situation of the deep financial and economic crisis, we believe, is necessary. Its urgency can also be justified by the current state of public finances. The deficit over the Maastricht border this year, according to the LDS, is not yet problematic, of course, assuming that it is only a temporary stabilisation deficit and that both policy and social partners will agree in due time that we will begin to address it in poor economic conditions. So, right now, and not somewhere else in the future. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we are also committed to establishing strong legal rules to limit the scope of public debt, and therefore we certainly need a fiscal council as an independent expert body to monitor the quality of fiscal policy and the long-term sustainability of public finances and the quality of implementing the necessary structural reforms. Moreover, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are of the opinion that even some levers of fiscal policy could be transferred to it. The third part of the bill is the so-called anti-Tacoon article. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we certainly support the provision of public funds by prohibiting the conclusion of loan transactions aimed at the purchase of ownership shares by managers and carried out without the necessary permission or by other proven irregularities which have led to the imposition of a procedure against such legal persons by the competent authorities. Then we have opinions; and irrespective of the fact that such anti-Taikun provisions are likely to be applied only on two or three cases which have been disclosed and all the known cases; that it would be better and better if this issue were regulated in a specific law, but not to burden the marriage texts with three or four other laws. Also because it is an important intervention in the independent business policy of banks requiring legal, correct, clear and unambiguous solutions. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the Proposal for a New Law on Public Finance because it is an important anti-crisis law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good day to all present. A particularly pleasant day for Mr Petan in order not to have to bother in the middle. The Group of Social Democrats will fully support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance, as it brings some urgent improvements, in particular in the area of a single treasury account. In addition, the restrictions already laid down in the Guarantee Scheme Act, namely to extend the ban on the refinancing of loans for managers' acquisitions to the entire operation of banks that acquire guarantees or loans from state resources under the Public Finances Act. Furthermore, it is important that this amendment introduces a fiscal council, which is supposed to be composed of truly top financial experts, in particular in the area of macroeconomics and fiscal economies, so that we have the supervision or monitoring of actually the implementation of budgetary planning in a given fiscal year. Moreover, the members of the fiscal council will not have the opportunity to repeat their mandate, but every five years the entire fiscal world will have to be replaced. And another interesting thing, I think maybe a little bit overlooked, due to too much attention in the area in the other three areas. The fact is that this amendment of the law defines the purpose of environmental taxes, which are the income of municipalities. However, in the absence of an explicit determination, the resources obtained by the water loading tax, the environmental loading tax, could be used inadvertently. We think that this is a useful provision that defines the use of these funds, so we will support this law, as we say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! According to the proposaler, the law that we are considering today is necessary in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State due to possible disruptions to the functioning of the financial system. Indeed, the Government must ensure that the measures taken to limit the effects of the financial crisis are implemented in a way that will enable the objectives and objectives to be achieved. However, the main purpose of the amendment to the law is to prohibit banks receiving different forms of State aid from all types of lending, refinancing and renewal of loans before or at the time of maturity, where those loans are intended to finance the purchases of undertakings by the administrations of those undertakings and related persons, so-called managers' buy-backs. With one thing, I will say, a beautiful mistake, a ban applies only if the company or its management is in the process of a suspected violation of the law before the Office for the Protection of Competition or the Agency for Securities and Securities. In the SDS Group, we find that the aim and purpose of the proposalr is precisely reversed and denies what is said in the explanation. With this provision, in our view, this will not be achieved, even more, in order to approve or reprogram so-called management loans to a wide open door. Since this is the exact same substantive solution as the amendment to the Guarantee Scheme Act, we oppose this solution in our Group of Members, so we have also tabled an amendment to Article 3, because it is unacceptable that the proposal for a new law allows for the possibility that liquid assets for investments and the development of enterprises can be earmarked for the issue of new or reprogramming existing loans, so-called tycoon loans. Indeed, most of these loans have proved to be detrimental since the funds they create are intended to repay these management loans. So companies are paying themselves off instead of earmarking funds for business and development. The most painful consequence of this is the multitudes of workers who are fired and thus the increase in unemployment rates, which instead of contributing to the state treasury, are recipients of social transfers. We do not support the proposal to set up a so-called fiscal council, which is intended in particular to assess the sustainability and stability of public financial policy. In our view, the introduction of a new body, in times of economic crisis, is unnecessary, but especially in terms of cost, as other institutions such as Banka Slovenije, Umar, the Government Strategic Council, and so on, could or could already carry out the proposed tasks. We also believe that the universal establishment of a number of new agencies, bodies and commissions does not lead to greater efficiency and efficiency of public administration. Above all, we see no reason for establishing such an authority by law. With regard to the amendment of the Article, which discusses the management of the cash assets of the single fund account and the management of the free money in the accounts of legal persons included in the EAGF system, the question of the possibility and form of control of such a parallel monetary system is raised. For it is not clear who and on the basis of which the rules govern the municipalities in the case of the provision of liquidity assets. In our view, it would be appropriate to include an integral part of the budget implementation report as well as a report on the effectiveness and efficiency achieved in managing these funds. However, regularity and prudence should be revised each year by an authorised auditor. We will therefore vote against the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group unless, by any chance, our amendments are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u54	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! Don't mind me if I, as the last representative of the Group of Members, may have picked up something that has already been heard. In the Group of Members, we really believe that these amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act contain the following substantive changes or sets: The first change would be to complement the definition of earmarked budgetary revenue, which now includes earmarked revenue from environmental taxes on pollution by waste water and municipal waste disposal. Both types of assigned revenue belong to the municipal budgets. By supplementing the Public Finance Act, the legal basis for the relevant municipal decisions on the implementation of municipal budgets is provided. With a second amendment, we can manage money and free money through a single treasury account of the State or municipalities, which provides that at the state level, the Ministry of Finance and municipal administration manages a single treasury account. Part of the Ministry responsible for finance, or part of the municipal administration, or of the administrator of the single treasury account, which will manage the single account, will be registered with the APPES, the Agency for Public Records and Services, with its home number, while at the same time the administrator of the single treasury account system will be classified under the treasury code in the register of budgetary users. In accordance with the principles of security, liquidity and profitability, the law also regulates the duration of investments, at national level up to three years and at municipal level up to twelve months. In addition, the amendment provides a legal framework to reduce exposure to cash management risks and to regulate the prohibition on crediting and financing collateral for so-called corporate equity purchases. So far, this has been regulated by government regulations, and only for transactions financed by a state loan or a state guarantee, and this amendment to the law extends the prohibition to the entire operation. Credit and financing insurance shall be prohibited for all cases where infringements of the financial instruments market law, takeover legislation or infringements of competition have occurred in the proceedings. The limitation on lending or the granting of guarantees for these management loans shall be limited to the duration of the measures or to the duration of the loan guarantee or the time of repayment of the loans. Perhaps it would be worth mentioning here, even in view of the opinions already expressed, that I do not know if we are all in this country in a clear way, in what way we should be able to obtain property at all, and that our legislation is likely to allow wealth, since we ultimately have such an economic system that it is actually intended to do so. And if we decided to do that 18 years ago, it probably wouldn't be appropriate to criminalize anyone who's going to go into entrepreneurship right now. It's probably some kind of value, at least it should be. Clearly, however, these values have changed in the midst of this because today, according to a number of debaters, it is understood that the balance sheet is the one we are staring at and that no one should have more than someone else. We believe, of course, that the current regime, such as it is before us today, will be the most exclusive cases that are, of course, illegal. The third area, or the next area covered by this amendment of the Public Finance Act, concerns the establishment of a separate body, a fiscal council, an independent evaluation of public financial policy and an assessment of the implementation of structural reforms. This seven-member Council, appointed by the Government on a proposal from the competent minister of financial experts and economic direction for a period of five years. At least four of them must be Slovenian citizens, for others it is not necessary, which may somehow give us a different picture of our finances than otherwise we could all create ourselves. The Fiscal Council will assess the sustainability and stability of the public financial policy, the adequacy of the public financial objectives set, the effectiveness of the use of public funds, the long-term sustainability of public finances, the transparency of public finances, the quality of economic forecasts, as well as the effectiveness of the implementation of structural policies and the assessment of the government debt policy and the guarantee policy in terms of sustainability and the stability of public finances. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law complemented, of course, by the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups that were adopted at the meeting of the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group, where this is a new paragraph 6. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. There are no applications, which is why I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article. It's a new 86b. Article 1 I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Likar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. The amendment tabled in Article 3 of the Slovenian Democratic Party should prohibit banks from lending or reprogramming these loans, but not for those exceptions provided for in this Act. If we have a serious intention to help businesses in difficulty, then these funds should be earmarked for this. As I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, these liquid assets should be devoted to investment and development, not to the issuance of new or reprogramming of existing so-called tycoon loans. Let me say again that such loans have proven to be harmful in the past, and they will probably continue to be harmful because these funds are used to repay the company itself as such, rather than to devote these funds to the business or development of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. I can still see the deadlines for this article to be discussed, so I am reopening the application. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my opinion, the formation of the tycoons is the responsibility of all Slovenian policy and all political parties, since we have not prevented these anomalies in time with the relevant legislation. We may not be able to make enough changes in return, but in the future, if we mean it, and if we mean it first and foremost, we can also prevent these anomalies. The bill states, if I simplify it, that the beneficiaries of the measures must not lend and renew loans in the context of their operations, provided that three conditions are met, of course, which are clearly stated here. So if these three conditions are met. But if these three conditions are not met, this could happen. This is a disaster for me because, in fact, with new legislation, we are allowing the creation of new tycoons, so we are not serious and we are not honest. This is actually a scandal for me, however we turn here or there. What happened happened. If we are serious, this time we should all prevent such matters from happening in the future. I can say that we're creating some bad tycoons and some good tycoons or some kind of friendly tycoon or some unfriendly tycoon that I'm not going to go into any other division. The crisis definitely can't and can't be an alibi to help the tycoons, can it? It really bothers me that the condition of banks to approach the guarantee scheme, which we have talked about extensively and in which this same clause, that such a clause be introduced into the law, was actually a kind of requirement for banks to participate in these measures that the state wants to implement. I wonder who's actually in charge in this country? Are these banks or maybe typos from the background, and are we really doing some new totalitarianism, where a handful of people, rich people, will manage and run the country beyond politics? I believe that all these measures, which the Government has prepared, must be used exclusively for the purpose of reviving the Slovenian economy, which has been in a serious crisis, but not for some other story, some of the abnormal stories that have happened and will obviously be happening. I believe that these stories that have happened could have been managed by banks themselves, if they are true, as recorded in the New Ljubljana Bank press conference's online Evening, where it was said - Loans secured by securities are for 900 million euros, of which 250 million are loans for managers' purchases, and I quote: "At market prices we have 1.2 billion securities in the form of securities. We think they're very well insured. There's a lot of talk about how we were able to finance the manager's takeover, which is not true. They certainly had between 25 and 40% of their own resources. The amount of EUR 250 million from the bank's point of view is very manageable and greater risks than we can see from conventional credits," said Aloise Jamnik. This means that the bank, this quote was from the press conference of the New Ljubljana Bank, controls these management loans itself. There is no reason for a country to embark on these stories, which should only help the Slovenian economy at this time. And that is why I see no reason, no reason at all, in these laws, which had a clear purpose when we talked about the guarantee scheme, and also the fact that we are helping the Slovenian economy, that we are enabling here through the back door, not to prevent, but to allow new, similar stories to arise. This is wrong and, of course, we will here support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which prevents such matters. And if we were to be honest and serious about ending this story, we would also make this very clear, very clear in the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. It is unlikely that this amendment will be adopted under the Public Finance Act if an identical amendment has not been adopted under the Guarantee Scheme Act. Things were even more scandalous there. The ruling coalition has decided that these loans, which are controversial, will not only be renewable, renewed, reintroduced, but even through state guarantees. It's a kind of scandal, but it's not the only one. In recent months, we have witnessed these cases several times a day in the National Assembly. It is not entirely clear when this way of acting and monitoring decisions will end. Whether it will end when 100,000 people are unemployed in Slovenia or 150 000 unemployed will be needed. He'll have to one day. However, the price to be paid for this will be too high, ladies and gentlemen. The moment you have taken care of the loans for managers' buyouts, or now that your leading "leaders" have started to speak shamelessly about the tycoons; which they denied a year ago that this is an inappropriate term, we can also say that; you have a tycoon story to worry about. When you're worried about how you're going to try to fix these things with a government guarantee, you lose hundreds of people every day. Why is that necessary? Is this really necessary because the banks threatened not to enter the guarantee scheme unless what you are now offering in this law is enabled? For what you bring into marriage is terrible. You're talking about banks being able to benefit from the measures under Sections 81 and 86 of the Act, in so far as there's nothing legal in tycoon stories. Most of the time, everything's legal. That's not what this is about. The point is that in times when the economy bloodyly needs fresh liquidity means to produce, it is immoral and unacceptable to extend Taiwanese loans. Worse yet, this is happening to the state guarantee. The amendment proposed is very clear and indisputable and prevents this story. It's blocking. What, though, did you call for the resignation of the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank and why is it actually a resignation? Because he extended credit to Infond. According to what we have on the table today, he did nothing wrong. Why did you invite him to resign in Zares, which then happened? He also acted in accordance with your new paradigm, in accordance with what you have enacted in this National Assembly at your previous meeting and today you are further legislating. There was no need. If he acted in accordance with what you're legitimizing and what this ruling coalition is apparently going to confirm today. Was there a reason somewhere else? Was there a reason for the family to argue with each other, and that individual family members were impatient because they got a feeling, especially one of the heads of that family, that they would no longer have access to these so-called union loans that took place in a very narrow circle. For if a loan of EUR 6 million happens in real estate, which is worth EUR 100,000, what is different from the family business in terms of the families we know from Palermo from Sicily. It's a business of the sort. And such transactions are now legalized here with this change of law. Why are we doing this? With the good purpose of the preceding article relating to a single treasury account, something that does not belong to this law and which is unacceptable is once again suffered in this law. Unacceptable, it is immoral for Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers to be forced to rehabilitate Slovenian banks again. This is a disaster, and it will happen as long as we follow this paradigm that you are now introducing. For this reason, I propose that this amendment, if it has not already been adopted under the guarantee scheme, be supported by this law at least. For something essential will not happen, for the substance has already happened at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, but at least a little less of this immorality, unethicality will lie on your shoulders. The amendment, of course, I think, needs to be supported by hygiene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment to this article? I'm opening the application. First of all, Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. However, it must be said that Mr Veselinovic has gone into trouble, which is why he also offered to resign because he was not in favour of solving the Mercator affair. In fact, this sphere falls under this Article. Infond belongs to connected persons under the Banking Act. And that's where you had to react. He couldn't get this reaction out, he didn't have enough power, so he resigned, and it was because he didn't expose the authority, and he accepted the resignation. The Mercator affair, with all this takeover and the activities that are now taking place, was created in the previous government, created in some trade with these shares and got involved in a level that probably was not expected at the time. Such an explanation is ridiculous because it is pathological. The rest can be resolved by further amendments to the GAG or by special law, where this High Council could actually change the entire management buy-back strategy and then instruct the Government to carry out a financial part of this business, but the matter must be carried out constitutionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Hello again! There have been some interesting discussions at the Committee on Finance. I can't say that many people didn't have the right debate, but I was disturbed by a few terms relating to the banking system, to banking, for which they worked in the bank for 17 years, I have to say that I don't remember ever using them. At the last meeting of the Finance Committee, a debate was held on Taiwan's credits, and I am already hearing about union loans worth €6 million. I think that I have a few terms in this regard that have been clarified and that I have also had the opportunity to use them in practice, but these two terms in a substantially different way, even tycoon loans, I do not remember. But when I look at history, I don't know, there's a scandal debate. Now I don't know if it's a scandal debate, maybe even an Ultra Scandal, in some people's opinion, and so on, I don't know. But I'm curious -- because there's a debate about tycoons, I've also looked online about what the term "Tycoon" means. As a recent foreign word, the word "tikun" refers to a very wealthy businessman, and it comes from the Japanese word "taikun", meaning "great sir". In the former socialist countries, however, this term has turned to a slightly more negative variant of terminology than to someone who is very quickly enriched. But I don't think it's appropriate today to talk about some family heads, Palermo and so on. However, let me correct the colleague who discussed the union loans of €6 million. What I remember in life, in 20 years of working time, was usually granted a union loan, even in history it was approved by trade unions even without interest. Not at the amount of €6 million or sometimes dinars or tolars, but these were substantially lower amounts, so I don't think this comment is best placed here. But it would have been an interesting answer, because, six months ago, a period of lending and large loans had not begun, that is a fact. These credits were obvious before and now, I do not know whether the Prime Minister Borut Pahor's government is responsible for all of this or whether it would be right that we are somehow correct in these discussions and that we also think that these credits have been granted before, that there was probably agreement, including probably previous governments or responsible people. If there are loans from state banks, so it has been here, clean wine or water should be poured and when the debate is not particularly acute and extremely critical to the current government, but in this direction, the responsible persons should be brought forward, but realistic and correct. Of course, what is unacceptable and immoral? When the debate was held by the Committee on Finance, how should we, somehow in that article you call "the tycoon article," I was just about to make an announcement at the meeting, and I will say that now. When the debate was about the need to limit lending to some who have been somehow understood by tycoon terminology lately, I thought of something. So, I come to the store, I'm not exactly a model act, and then the salesman says, "The lady for you is not bread, we don't sell you bread, because you are, as far as the law is concerned, so much so that we can't sell you bread in our store, because it's probably so defined already in which, I don't know, law. And something like that seems to me to be with these particulars, it seems to me that we're not real here, that here, I don't know if that's right. Even when, I don't know if all successful entrepreneurs, economists, CEOs in Slovenia will be defined by this unpleasant title. For who will then live us? We must not forget that the economy is the one in Slovenia that helps us in any way, that our people have a job, and also in stressing the need for quality transport connections, to mention the completion of the lower leg several times, to see, not the ones we are driving on these roads, but probably almost all of us, but also to keep in mind the economy, including companies associated with foreign companies, and that we will no longer be asked in the long run by foreigners or foreign business partners, or, say, Revoz will still be working vehicles for Renault in Slovenia if we are not more flexible in the transport relationship, etc. Therefore, even in these definitions of so-called tycoonisation, tycoon loans, union loans, immoral, unacceptable scandals, mention of leaders of "leaders", tycoon stories with state guarantees, etc., this has all been mentioned today. I don't think it's right for us to go to such a low and low level. However, it is appropriate to carry out checks, audits. However, if necessary, I think it is appropriate to do so even for a period of time, if any, of dispute, for a period of time in the operation of those governments or those governments which, even then, granted these loans to the tycoons, if they are really tycoons. In my opinion, they're economists, they're people who work here, and they wouldn't throw all people in one basket. Therefore, let us be careful, careful, and reflect on the fact that when the story goes backwards, it can be found that any irregularities or overlooked facts have already been possible within the mandate of the former Minister of Finance, etc. Let's be correct, let's not use such terms now and not insult each other, but let's try to solve what to do and see more broadly than just to let someone do evil, let us somehow stop it, stop it or whatever, I didn't say verbally correctly, stop it - I apologize, but I think we are also looking at people who have jobs in businesses, that our people, workers will not be unemployed because of possible unwise decisions, including decisions and votes of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u65	[[...]] [[From the hall.]] It's a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'll give you a replica right away. Then we'll give it another chance to apply because it's still an interest. Before doing so, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, that on Wednesday, 17 June, we will adjourn this 7th regular meeting at 3 p.m. due to the urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, at which the representatives of the Government will inform the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the latest content of the European Commissioner Olli Rehn's proposal for a settlement of the dispute between Slovenia and Croatia. That's what needs to be done. The interruption will take 1 hour and 45 minutes. We'll continue the meeting at 4:45. Unfortunately, we must do this at this time, because later the President of the Government will be on his way because he has a Council meeting tomorrow. I apologize for this inconvenience, but on the basis of Article 73(1) of the Rules of Procedure we can do so, and I think it is for the benefit of all of us, especially Parliament and the members of the Committee. So much for information. You also received information from all parliamentary groups today after 10 a.m. We're moving on. Mr. Blackach has the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. It must have been in my debate to understand that I was talking about the union loan in terms of the transferred meaning and in relation to what I had just said. I also compared the story with another country, where it is known that several unions were linked to mafia families. What is more than a family-agreed story if a personal friend of the President of the Management Board of the largest Ljubljana bank in December, when the credit crunch was the worst and when companies or individuals failed to obtain a few tens of thousands of euros of credit for production, gets approved within a week of December, not for production, not for a project, but for a few thirds, a multi-million-dollar loan secured with a 10-fold lower value than the value of this loan. What is this other, distinguished Mrs. Brunskole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. If we want to be consistent in this anti-Tychoon operation, if we want to act the way we do, or otherwise, so far, it is probably necessary to take some measures, which make certain things more acute or certain, as we have found, they will also rule out deviant phenomena. I would like to remind you that yesterday we decided on the composition of an investigative commission that will deal with some management acquisitions, namely two, we are talking about Pivovarna Laško and Istrabrenza. These managerial acquisitions were implemented because certain restrictions in the regulation adopted in the previous, previous and many previous mandates did not limit certain activities, certain business decisions of banks, business banks and so on. Some processes could only be carried out because we were not careful enough or because the legislation in force allowed this. If the coalition wants to be consistent, already because it has signed up for the establishment of an investigative commission that will determine the political responsibility of those who are supposed to help to implement these managers' buy-backs, then both in the Guarantee Scheme Act and in the last Public Finance Act that we are considering now should support the provisions that these phenomena, such as those that we will investigate with the investigative commission, will prevent. However, the coalition in this part is not consistent. On the one hand, he wants to point out something, he wants to identify the political responsibility of those who have made it possible for managers to take over and, on the other hand, he proposes laws that allow such exceptions. Two laws in this mandate, two laws in the last two months that allow it. There's no other way to find out than that the coalition is two-faced. That in the real field, that is to say, where we adopt legislation, exceptions are allowed and, for the public's sake, an investigative commission is set up to deal virtually with identifying the political responsibilities of some who are supposed to enable management to take over. Virtually, just so the public can hear something, we'll see that the coalition is supposed to fight tycunization, against management acquisitions and so on. On the other hand, it makes it possible by means of a guarantee scheme law, by means of a law on the public finances of the revolution and credits for precisely management acquisitions, precisely for what the investigative commission is supposed to be fighting against. This is particularly sad because, during the period when the economy deals with what the President of the Government said yesterday or Monday, we are witnessing a free fall in GDP. This means that in this period, after November, the Government did not take any measures to prevent a free fall in GDP. No inhibitory measures, otherwise there would be no free fall. But we are primarily concerned with how many people who have come to unexplained large ownership shares in very large Slovenian companies are allowed to complete these processes. On the one hand, we are talking about a credit crunch, but it is not just a credit spasm, it is also a financial spasm, a financial spasm, because companies do not receive funds, they do not get payments, we limit and prevent companies from getting overpaid VAT, we make it impossible to reduce the country's payment deadlines, it is said that the country would pay earlier. On the other hand, we accept public guarantees, state guarantees for some who will also be able to complete this management takeover by means of postal collectors, companies with an unknown owner, hidden owners, receive enormously large funds, enormously large loans to complete this management takeover, all under cover that if this management takeover does not come to an end, it will be a national problem. That won't be a national problem. Finally, it doesn't matter whether he owns a company, Boško, Igor, Janez, Bine, Andrijana or anyone. This is no relevant problem for Slovenia. It doesn't matter who owns it. And I don't understand why legislation has to allow a known name so that they can capitalise their political involvement in a certain political bloc by means of a state guarantee. I do not understand why people who belong to a particular political circle should be allowed by law to carry out their intentions for themselves or perhaps for someone else. Nor is it and I do not understand how it is possible for companies that cannot be identified as owners to obtain 10 million or 100 million loans from state banks. How is it possible for a mailbox to get five, one, ten, thirty million Euros of credit without finding out and knowing who's behind this mailbox? Doesn't it strike anyone as strange that they get such enormous loans to such companies? And now that you have prepared the Public Finance Act, and have already adopted the Guarantee Scheme Act, you have done exactly that, you have enabled all anonymous companies, postal collectors who are only hosting at some address the opportunity to get a lot of money and are deliberately using this money to buy and capitalize or take over these companies. I don't think that's how this is supposed to happen. If we know what was going on, it's time, and now it's time, because some things have probably happened in this process of enterprise property transformation to stop these things. The ownership transformation processes of enterprises have also been carried out in agreement. During all this period since 1992, 1993 it is known who was the head of the Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation, who was sitting in Kadu, who was sitting in the Court, who was in the SRD, who was in the DSU and so on. These were the institutions that carried out this capitalisation or property transformation in Slovenia. There you will find the very well-known political names, which were secretaries of state or ministers, sitting simultaneously in these agencies, Kadu, the Court, either in congregations or supervisory bodies. Even by allowing persons to sit in ten supervisory councils, in five "moms" companies and in five "daughters", these systems were allowed to grow. All of these related persons who participated in these supervisory bodies acted by reaching agreed concentrations. There have been some links and we now accept these exceptions in the Public Finance Act and have already adopted them under the Guarantee Scheme Act. I think that responsible policy should actively prevent decisions that are demonstrably poor. If we do not have a policy in the National Assembly to prevent these excesses and such deviations, then something serious, something difficult will happen in this country. And what my colleague, Mr Chernač, said about the fact that some had access to money under union conditions, he certainly did. Since they had such ratings that they probably received loans under lower interest rates, on better terms, to obtain credits by securing them for less than they received credit, some have also provided collateral for this loan 5 times, 7 times less or invested assets to obtain liquid money and so on. In these cases, we are talking about a union approach. And this is only possible if management and policy cooperation are involved. And we know who was involved in this relationship. I'm sure he knows. Mr Posedel, who has been leading the investigative commission since yesterday, will probably also identify these political links: between politics, the financial system, the judiciary and elsewhere. All these matters could not have happened if a fair relationship had been in place, a proper relationship, if the rules of the bank had been followed, if the rules of ethics in politics had been followed, but there had also been a free fall. That is why this has happened, and these stories are also happening, because in this case there has also been a free fall for all those who should do more in this area than to miss or even keep their hands together. I don't think we need to go around these things like cats around hot porridge. Things need to be made clear. It must be said that in the event that the amendment is not adopted, this means that we legalise that you legalise with the law of management taking over. And you allow all those who have not yet completed the process to complete the process of materialization or acquisition. That's the essence of your marriage and both of your laws. If things were to be revealed, if things were public, they would vote against it. And since you are taking a different approach, covering your networks and backdrops, it is obvious that the Public Finance Act will also be an exception and will allow the completion of management acquisitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting to the coworkers and the coworkers! When I listen to the debate by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the moralization, I feel like the Red Cross Pol Road is talking to me about human rights and respect for human integrity. Even cynically, those who have allowed themselves to be taught moral lessons about how to deal with tycoons at the time of their rule are now being taught. That's right. Let's be clear, the tycoons were created in the time of the Yangtze government. So I wonder why the previous government, if we know so much today, you know so much about morality, about ethics, about the effectiveness of laws, why there was no action, why nothing was done. We've only heard the word of a war against the tycoons. But this war against the tycoons, I'm sorry, but it's as effective as Bush's war on terrorism. Nothing but words. I also heard about some family business in Palermo and Sicily style. If we are speaking, let us be clear when we are talking about mafia business, what is more similar to the mafia business than the one that took place in the office of the then Prime Minister, Janez Janša, when Mercator was sold? What if it doesn't sound like a mob business? And then his roommate at the bench is gonna moralize me about what Mafia business is and how it's gonna be done. Please! The President of the current opposition, the then Prime Minister, who is already a prominent and active member of the Communist Union, concludes a business that is then a typical and top-of-the-line mafia business, and then from the same party, they moralize me about what mafias are and what tycoons are. The peak of cynicism. What about the other companies currently suffering in the Slovenian and global sphere, which were recently proud of the Slovenian economy? What about clientism, the corruption that's triggered in these companies? What about the flirtation of the previous government with Istrabenz and until the recent President of the Istrabenz administration, now members of the Istrabenz administration, Igor Bavčar, who has actually allowed the management takeover of Istrabenz and the current almost collapse of the society that I was proud of until recently as Istrian? What about the hit in Nova Gorica? What happened to Luka Koper when a company with almost 250 million capital went into a state where it has 250 million debts and is in such a crisis today, and it is the only port we are proud of, not only Slovenia, but it can be proud of the whole of Central Europe? The peak of cynicism. Well, at the end of the day, if we had heard the adjectives "ultra" before or yesterday, we could say today, if we used a little differently and said "mercator" cynicism. I would like to remind you of the postal mailboxes that filled all our mailboxes before the elections with newspapers, such as the Express or the Slovenian weekly, which were made on mailboxes, whose funding, in my opinion, is very, very controversial and was in fact a covert, illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign. Once again, I can agree with the piece of content, but I'm sorry that Paul Pute is going to talk to me about human rights, and that's not credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I am reopening my application for discussion, which is the third amendment to Article 3. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I have no intention of killing anyone in this place, and I will distance myself from these things. I don't even mean to condemn anyone in this place, which has happened, is likely, and I hope, I will find and come to some conclusions from this investigative committee. But once again, I must stress, in fact, only as far as this amendment or this Article 3 is concerned. If we are serious and, above all, sincere, then I wonder what the Government or the proposer thought about the goals it is pointing to. The objectives are, inter alia, to clearly identify those types of loans to banks which are incompatible with all the forms of State aid provided for by the law, as well as against the basic purpose of the State's action to stabilise the financial system. I really don't see the reason or why the purchases of business shares and shares by the administrations of these companies and the related persons should be why they should be received, we can say, state aid. In this respect alone, I do not oppose or support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because in my view these funds are intended to save liquidity for companies that, we can say, are still above water, above water, above water, are not yet submerged and have the opportunity, but also the will, not least to invest in investment and development, but not to support it, and this through loans made by banks, buying out various business shares, shares of these companies, especially by the administrations. But I don't mind if the banks continue to give credit for such transactions, and I think they will already make sure that these loans are adequately secured - at least I hope they won't approve credits that would not be adequately secured, because we know that insurance alone is not sufficient, they have to be adequately secured - but from some other sources, not from those, as this law says. That's the only reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! First, I would like to refer a little bit to the previous debaters. In fact, I have heard a lack of interpretation of the term 'Tajkun' as a great gentleman, but in the Balkans it is a great gentleman who has come to his wealth unjustifiably, with ties, with knowledge, in a non-transparent way and is as useful for the economy or for the country, for the wider community as, say, some parasite in the store, because he will always need new and new resources. On the other hand, if we look at so-called tycoons, their businesses, what they're running, I don't even care when they're made. Of course, it is now most convenient to show for the last four years, but the figures show that there were only a few 100 untransparent purchases in the previous government over 2,400 and in the time of the Janša government. And tycoons haven't been since yesterday, so not only in the last four years, but mainly with their mentors, they have longer roots. It pains me more because they are bad masters, or on purpose, because they have to do such business, which is at the edge of legality, that is, different cows' trades, or are already such, generally bad masters. If there was not so much debate in the current crisis time, when it was necessary to revive healthy production or discovery, we have identified ourselves as a technologically advanced society, and at the end stage this house at the time of each meeting is hosted by an eminent lecturer, under the Knowledge of Harvest project, and we also see, at least yesterday, that knowledge is also applied in Slovenian production. Companies apply this knowledge, but still not enough. And in the end, there is a danger that such eminent experts will keep their discoveries on paper, on CDs, DVDs, etc., and they will not come to the market because there will be no money, because money will be for those others who, I think, somewhere I've detected a concept, a strange economy, because they don't deal with the basic principles of economic logic, but they have to work within the family, as my colleague mentioned, under some family rules that might be written by "pater familyias" so a father that we don't know or we can only imagine. This is not a transparent economy, this is not a new development. If we look at it, I've tracked it down in Finance, but what if, for example, Istrabenz is taken over by foreigners, I think 24 leading jobs are at risk. What's the damage? They're probably going to go after the ones we should be replacing. The other employees will do what they have done so far if they are doing a useful job if the new owner finds that they are needed. Perhaps the only change that will happen will be a new working clothes, a new logo, perhaps a new contract for an employee. For those 24, what's the harm if they were working with property that they came up with in a very easy way, like a pig with a moss? We would expect the donated money to at least invest well, new markets opened up. Bulgaria and Romania have entered the Union, a major investment opportunity, i.e. to expand production, for what I know, to move that part of the labour force where there is still cheap labour, etc. The markets of the Western Balkans are opening, there is no more embargo on Serbia and Montenegro. Moreover, Montenegro is becoming a great and important partner, from which it has embarked. By the way, immediately after the secession, their GDP increased according to the country's home country, to Serbia's partner. Well, what do I hear? Someone in this circle is even running. Split Brewery will be sold instead of being opened in Romania and I don't know where else. All the breweries have broken into Serbia. There's no world brand so we don't have a license beer or at least a sale. And if they can't manage money, why would they continue to spend money in that area instead of promising technologies? Only two, Akrapovic and Boscarol, are unlikely to save the Slovenian economy. But there are a lot of potential, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, not giants, who are already crammed by overindulgence at first. Therefore, there is no point in supporting money to invest in such areas, but indeed in promising technologically advanced industries. With old existing products, the world market is saturated, the automotive industry is saturated. Cars are already on a five-year lease. Those who drive on the road today will only be paid in five years. Everyone already has their own Nokia and so on. New products, energy, pharmaceuticals, communications. These directions must be given an opportunity, not a tycoon, which will be very specific within ten years, five years from now, it repeats itself as natural cycles. I don't know how many times we've saved the banks, and we're gonna have to do it again. But who can expect such or-or companies to ever be able to return this money? Never and never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. We listen to really interesting discussions concerning the amendment to Article 3. I have to say, I don't see any special added value in it. That, of course, it is the basic purpose of this law and this government to deal properly and specifically with those managers' ransoms with which something has been wrong. We are simply Slovenians, in history, well known for having never, in fact, ever had any real owners, not bad people, not capitalists. With independence and with our country, we have received a part of it. On the one hand, on the other hand, what property brings good, on the other hand, we all learned together, and went there on the sidelines, which need to be repaired and disposed of. I think that the Ministry of Finance is correct and, in the context of the possibility, is actually correcting and decommissioning, but not everything that has been wrong since 1991, to be corrected and changed overnight. Of course, those who would be mean in politics see everything black and black. We have already started our own self-sustaining story with tycoon business, because in that period, less than where millions and millions of then branded guns disappeared, we are interested in this and are concerned whether anyone who was wronged in that period will ever receive any compensation. This leech, or this tick, which has been thinning and developing since the 1990s, has, of course, been the most inflatable and sucked up since the August 2005 story, which we call the Mercator agreement with the former Prime Minister of the Government. There was really push up and added value. And then, now that all of us, regardless of the political color in these stories, have been sobered by a story called the economic and financial crisis. And I think that, at this point, we owe it to everyone who is in politics to save what is to be saved, without forgiveness, especially without pointing to the culprits, or more from the left or more from the right. Most of all, not the culprits, but most of the victims are those who, because of these stories, because of credits, because of the operations of banks, are losing their jobs today and are living so hard. I think that the Ministry has proposed concrete solutions to the fact that the anti-Taikun article is what is currently the most possible under legal options, which is why, as a Member and also a Member Group, we support the provision of public funds by prohibiting the conclusion of loan transactions aimed at the purchase of ownership shares by managers, and therefore those which have been carried out without the necessary permission, or where irregularities have arisen against such legal persons, leading to the imposition of proceedings by the competent authorities. However, I am of course also of the opinion, regardless of the fact that these stories can be used in the first step only on a few of those cases in Slovenia that stand out most, and it will be easier to prove that there was something wrong in these stories. But it is certainly true, once again, that once again in the future in this area it is necessary to make a special law where we will not be a politician, but lawyers and experts will define who has done something wrong, who is the so-called tycoon, and above all that those who have made the executive buy-outs according to the rules, and today, because companies have become, even better, more successful in hiring, entering other markets, increasing employment, being competitive, and also separating tycoons, those who have created ownership with a history from banks, than those where managers have set up to solve this problem of their personal property. And there have been some in Slovenia in both the past and recent times. And of course there's nothing wrong with those. But it is important to be careful here, because when politics dictates to banks, to whom it should lend, to whom it is not, we step on one thin ice. The task of policy is one, and the tasks of the banks' administrations and bureaus are the other. And I am sure that if steps in this direction are decisive, but gradual, cautious and thoughtful, we will achieve what this country wants most and needs: a stable economic environment that will preserve jobs gives new added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word has a Black Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Earlier, the previous debater read what article 86.b is talking about and why we want to amend it with an amendment. If I put it simply, he's talking about banks being unable to participate in the scheme if they're acting illegally. Banks must not act unlawfully at all. They have to act in accordance with the law. If a certain management takeover does not work in accordance with the legislation, it cannot be done, it must be stopped. Why does it have to be written here in law? By allowing the original sin to be committed at the previous meeting, even the State guarantee with the guarantee scheme law was made possible by this case. Now he's smaller here than he was in his previous session. But we're listening, again and again, "the tycoons were created by the previous government." Even if that were true, you now have an ideal opportunity to make things right. Why aren't you fixing it? And now you build up this story, now you give them a government guarantee, or you give it to them at a previous meeting of the National Assembly. Or if I paraphrase the former MP, the current Minister of Economy, Mr. Lahovnik, the tycoons were created by the previous government, but they're sticking your heads out. Not one of our governments is among them, not one of them. Let's be serious! And this famous record of 12.8.2005, on which the former Prime Minister is to be sold by Mercator. How? The government didn't have any shares in Mercator. The minutes have been published several times, it is clear what is written in them, signed by the former State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem. And it would have been really good for me to stop this nonsense and focus on what is the subject of the debate in the National Assembly and what are the real problems. Not that Mr. Finance Minister here says, "Yes, he is, the main problem is Mercator." If that were true, why isn't Mercator explicitly on that investigative committee recently set up. It is Laško, and Istrabenz, a type of other business is not, there is no Viator&Vektor, there is no BTC, there is no type of other telecommunications business that should also be looked at in this story if the intention was serious. But after what happened in the last 15 days, it's perfectly clear why this investigation committee was initiated. Exactly because of what we said when it was justified: to distract attention, nothing else. Because someone must have realized that certain things were about to happen. About the companies you keep mentioning, and the last one on this series will talk about it again, Luka Koper, you destroyed the Hit and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, you have everything to exercise in your hands, manage effectively, manage effectively, prove that you are better. At the end of this term, we will ask you whether more profits have been made in these companies than in the previous term, and we will see how the invoice will speak and what will remain under this line. As far as I know, you have the most problems with yourself. In Hit, you have been coordinating a contract with the President of the Board for two weeks now, because it seems that this fight in the family is continuing in Hit, the family can't deal with it, because obviously one part of the family that is supposed to be the President of the Board of Supervisors has been overtaken, so the President of the Supervisory Board, who disagreed with it, has resigned, how and in what way this unloving person, who has now been chosen by your side, should be pressured not to sign this employment contract so that the family is saved. Let's be, let's be serious! You did not get this country in charge because, through clienteleistic links, you would assign to your departments those areas that are the most in the domain or where you have mailboxes so that you could have an impact through business even after you are no longer in power, but in order to effectively manage what you have been entrusted with, in these times when effective executive power is needed, you would act in a coordinated manner and in the interests of the whole country. And one of these things, which should be accepted on your part without any comment, is this amendment to this article. That's why I suggest you support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word. Procedurally, Mr Barovic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u81	Dear colleagues and colleagues! With all due respect for the importance of this law, Mr President, I would ask you to stop such and similar discussions, because today we are talking about the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Finances, not the issue of tycoonism. So left and right. Who dares, who dares, who dares, whatever. If you look closely at the amendment to Article 3, it is very clearly set out in the five paragraphs. Please, Mr President of the National Assembly, call on both sides to stick to this content. The stories of tycoonism, which have already been in various extraordinary sessions, will never be over. And it is not fair that we are talking about everything else, only the amendment to Article 3 and Article 3 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finances is not. Please, because this isn't going any further. I understand that you want to be patient, but this is not the content of today's debate, who was a tycoon, when there was, what is a tycoon, the definition - it's all written in a foreign dictionary, if not another. Read it. Let us stop this, let us go through the amendments and articles - 4, 5, 6, and so on and end this law and talk about its contents, not to resuscitate various extraordinary sessions. I hope that you will take into account my procedural proposal, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u82	Dear colleague Barovich. I couldn't agree more with you, but the debate expanded before I took over the session, and now I can't just limit it back. However, in line with what you have said, I call on all future debaters to focus more on the amendment and less generally on what they would call a global historical debate on tycoonism and tycoonization, an epochal world historical debate to correct myself, and I ask that you really define yourself more. Of course, it is no longer possible to limit this debate completely because it has already started. But it's still time to go. Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. I fully agree with my colleague Barovic that this law has nothing to do with the tycoonism and the things someone wants to do with the debate here as well. The Law amending the Public Finance Act speaks of two important things. The first important thing is that the Treasury Minister will be able to invest up to three years. That's the first thing in here. And the other thing is that a fiscal world is being established. That's the point of this marriage and nothing else. Of course, I would expect the amendments to be for this. And if the amendment were to allow the minister not three but five years to invest, he would support it, because, of course, banks would give slightly longer-term resources to be able to lend and give these things. It is true, however, that, as in some other laws, the Government has tried to restrict those banks that will have these assets in their credit portfolio to the granting of certain loans. She didn't write a tycoon loan because, of course, there's no definition of what a tycoon loan is, let alone to be a definition of what a tycoon is. Comrade Milenko Ziherl said earlier that this is a great, well-groomed gentleman with acquaintances. Maybe. Let's just remember how big it is. Is that a meter and a half? And we're not Comrade Ziherl, not me in there. Or it's a six foot [60 m] where we're both trapped inside and a gentleman with knowledge. Let's talk about how many acquaintances: three, five, or ten. Because of this, of course, we count how many of us are inside of not going to the thousands, but we probably all have more than three acquaintances. This famous 86.b article, which is also an amendment, speaks only of the fact that the Government in some way wanted to restrict the granting of those loans or the renewal of those credits where there is no permission to take over, where, of course, there are certain procedures which are at stake in taking over and where illegal things might occur. Whether they are illegal or not, this law does not. It cannot be ascertained that some other authorities are responsible for this. It should also be said that this government systematically works in all the laws in which it gives State guarantees and actually comes into the banking system to limit the granting of such loans. For this government, I suppose, at least so, because there is the same diction in the Guarantee Scheme Act and now in the Public Finance Act, that disputed loans and those controversial loans and these things are very clearly and well defined. No one else can do that. But for the first time, this government has written down in the Banking Act that we have adopted, I think in December, as one of the first anti-crisis measures, when the state guarantees 12 billion state guarantees for borrowing interbank loans on the global banking market. It also stated that the funds obtained on the basis of these guarantees could not be used for redemptions, namely for no purchases. Of course, how many of these guarantees have been used now? Nothing yet, because, of course, the banks are very careful to benefit from this, but as far as we know, none of this has been exploited. Secondly, the Government has recorded this or recorded it in the Guarantee Scheme Act as one of the guarantors that banks that will benefit from this guarantee scheme amounting to a billion 200 may not from their entire financial portfolio, which is intended to lend such loans - not from a billion 200, from the whole. This is very important. And for the third time, which is now in this Public Finance Act. Fortunately, we have successful banks in which the balance sheet they are lending to the economy and in some ways helping to keep this economy alive is even higher than a billion 200 and will be higher than this guarantee scheme, mainly because of this, I think about 45 billion, which is, by the way, more than the GDP of Slovenia. That's why, of course, it's pointless to say, but now, we don't define what a tycoon credit is, when we don't define who a tycoon is, and when we don't define who those are, except for that definition that the government has given here. Therefore, I will not be able to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I will support the text that we also supported on the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nicely greeted once again in my name! Why we have tabled this amendment to Article 86.b in the Slovenian Democratic Party - precisely to prevent the continued granting of these bank loans that are not covered. A good half year ago, a party colleague of yours, a very well-known personality, said: "Marjan, we have learned to own so much that we hope in Slovenia that every company will take over." Yeah, but not with your assets, your money, at the expense of others. That's the problem. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment to Article 86b of this Act in order to actually prevent these things from happening. We're talking about tycoons. No connection. Let's call them successful people. But they are successful people for their own pocket. That's the difference. Personally, the word tycoon doesn't sound good to me, and it's not right for them to call themselves that, because they're successful people for their pocket. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will stand for justice so that there will be no more such machinations. These people were born in the 1990s, not in the previous government. In the previous government, Mercator was sold somehow, but if there was no exchange of former President Mercator, this Mercator would certainly be Serbian today. Ask the previous President and gentlemen from Serbia, Mr Miskovic, how much money have they taken from Mercator. Now, unfortunately, they didn't come together to build the Stožice football stadium. That's what you're asking. My colleague Yuri said that in the previous term or so many years ago, the tycoons were discovered and so on. I'm sure I agree with him, but I would focus on doing what's good today, preventing what happened yesterday, and thinking about what's going to happen tomorrow. We are too young to actually think about what was the 45th year, with quite a few Members who have nothing to say and start looking back after the 45th year. That's when we put up the monuments, we have the holidays, we remember that day. Why should we burden our craftsmen, our heirs with this? It's out of the question. We're not going anywhere with this. For once, let us shrink our strength and think together about the future of Slovenia. Left, right, middle, whatever we call them. It's not going anywhere. People, let's think about what's good for Slovenia tomorrow. And we're burdening ourselves with colors. It's out of the question. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. I hope you're thinking about the words I said. I hope that we will all start to think together about our future, not over and over again about our past. Just one sentence to get me back. Today in the evening newspaper, sort of the regions. I'm sorry, the coastal region is as set up as Italy used to be. Are you funny? Give me a break! Our ancestors fought for Slovenia, and we must preserve it. That's the whole point. I hope that you will support this amendment and thus prevent further mismanagement of certain companies. I can also tell you from my own environment, from Maribor, at the Maribor Car Factory at the time of the collapse, that companies had to buy out the bankruptcy in fact objects. And from this bankruptcy mass came a new TAM, the Maribor Vehicle Factory. It would have been better if that money had been made even more development for those companies than now, this new Maribor Vehicle Factory had failed again. But this person or this man drove the Maribor Factory for free. These are the problems. That this will no longer happen, so we propose a key sentence in this amendment, which means that it can no longer come to this. Let's start thinking about development, not filling pockets for private purposes in the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. As far as this amendment is concerned, the matter is more than unclear. Our amendment sharpens those conditions and nothing else. And it would be wise for us all to sharpen them together with the support of this amendment. However, in the debate on what some of the facts have already been said, and I believe that I am obliged to respond somewhat to these shortcomings if they have been said in connection with this amendment. Talking about how the tycoons were created during John Janša’s time is a relatively irresponsible act. Someone else was in power from 1990, 1992 onward until 2004, and probably had significantly greater opportunities for one or another ownership than the time of the government of Janez Janša, because you continue to stress two, three acquisitions that occurred at the time, but we forget everything that happened before 2004, as if this had not happened. And that's not right. Of course, there was a lot of talk about Mercator. Thousands and times we have already said, and thousands and others, it will have to be said that the government of Janez Janša Mercator did not sell, since it was not the owner either. That there are official records on this and that matters have been checked not least in Brussels and you were also answered there that the matter is fine. No, we're just saying it again. We'll just answer to you. Why did these problems not occur during the previous government? I'd say it's the other way around, in the time of the previous government, they started getting rid of each other. The former government inherited two key supervisory institutions, the Securities Market Agency and the Office for the Protection and Competition of Inviolable Gentlemen, who did little but were legally protected so that we could not suspend them. But when Mr Soršak appeared there, there was someone else, but we started to work and discover these phenomena. If this makes one think that tycoons were created during the time of Mr Janez Janša and his government, of course, he is deeply wrong. You know, about the mailboxes and so on, someone also talked about it, and about the Slovenian weekly or which already, again, has nothing to do with the amendment. But these kind of mailboxes still exist today. I throw freebies out of these drawers in the trash can every week or I give them to some kid because they're collecting paper. Because I don't read them. The weapon was mentioned. I don't know what this is about with the amendment. Yes, for God's sake, from 1992 to 2004, two or three commissions worked. Find another one if you think you need it, search it, and don't read anything that hasn't happened. Investigate, since you've been investigating 14 years, you can still investigate and not consider this matter. To conclude, just one more thing. Someone once again reported to Mr. Janez Janša how he was in ZK. Ladies and gentlemen, our president has long said that he was, and he's told us a long time ago why he got out and when he got out. That's when he started building his own Slovenia, and that's why he got locked up. Other matters [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u88	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u89	Can you please calm down?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u90	Please limit historical debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u91	I agree, Mr President, with you, or I will have to say as you did yesterday, "if I were allowed, I would say so." Just to wrap it up. It is not right that these matters are mentioned that we are talking about these matters in this amendment, he has clearly stated, he has clearly taken his position when it was closed, even because of such views; and not to read it to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I was never a member of the Union of Communists, yet I still had, at least until today, a point in the agenda and to this amendment, one of the most left-wing left-wingers of this national council, perhaps I would have shared this passion with my colleague Kumr to the left if we had not experienced a new paradigm today. And this is the paradigm that comes from this amendment of yours that convinces me that maybe we're not pale sociodemocrats or really just liberals. True communism is happening today on this side. You want to shut down management. If you want to end capitalism, say so, maybe we'll even work together. We will create a new program where it will finally be possible that no one among the managers, among the capitalists, among the potential tycoons will ever get credit again. The former, Janša’s government was very close to introducing even a single tax rate. She wanted to introduce some neoliberal receptions and also provided the best conditions in the short history of independent Slovenia for managers taking over various companies. Today, however, from the opposition, i.e. from a very mild and favourable position, sends the mind to a position which considers it liberal-social-democracy-oriented and wants to phase out some of the bad practices of the past without introducing a revolution. Now this opposition is trying to tell us that any lending that works for some companies, managers and so on must be banned. In doing so, my colleague Bezjak, who unfortunately left, but I hope he listens to me, even used the word "wrong property". That is why today we have a law proposed by the Government to prevent further illegal, illegal property. I will read from this report: 'The ban on the conclusion of such banking transactions is limited to those cases where infringements of financial instruments market law and takeover legislation have occurred in or are detected in their operations in infringements of market competitiveness law'. This is a framework that prevents incorrect acquisitions. You want to go further, you could talk about the meaning of a more radical approach. The credibility of this fundamentalism, which is extremely leftist and could thus even fascinate me, is a weak point of inadequacy, and comes from your true purpose. When you were in the government, you triggered a neoliberal model of quick, easy-to-take businesses, but now you would like to try this government to limit it in one rational way - because this government is well aware and I think you are also aware of this, just from the opposition you do not need, but you know that the economic system is something very sensitive. If we make a mistake at one point, the system could collapse on the entire line. Therefore, when we are talking about the guarantee schemes and the sense of the instruments offered by this scheme, we cannot afford the laziness, ease that is evident in this article, so at first glance very, very revolutionary, the article, in order to say anything first, means restructuring an undertaking in terms of taking over legally and by those rules where it is clear and transparent that it is not an irregular takeover. It is a matter of allowing normal lending, the whole world is facing and facing a crisis today, and it is not a case that the Keynesian governments are the ones that favoured the guarantee schemes and the billions of dollars in injections that enabled this system, the economic system that relies on lending, to continue smoothly. But no abuse. Because abuse has led to the collapse of the financial market. And we're trying to limit these abuses to this law. Therefore, I believe that your article, in a certain sense, is also justified, even ethically solid, but its consequences can be for the economy of Slovenia, which now needs oxygen, needs opportunities, opportunities to be put back on its own, on its feet - such an intervention is fundamentalistic, which could be affected by flattering, endorsing angry workers, angry citizens and citizens who expect radical action, then turns out to be a populist intervention that can harm; and in the long term, it is the most damaging to those workers we need to give the opportunity and the future. That's why I'm not going to support this kind of amendment. I think it's right for the government to undertake the rehabilitation of tycoon abuse in a rational way. The law also introduces a fiscal world, a supervisory body that will also determine this transparency, even though I do not agree with the assets of new and new bodies. But gentlemen of the opposition, please tell me if you have ever helped this country to operate on the basis of existing supervisory bodies. Like the Court of Auditors. Who "shooted" the Court of Auditors? Is this part of the National Assembly? No, no, no. Criticisms and attacks and attempts to undermine the work of those bodies that control, from the Court of Auditors to the anti-corruption commission - the attacks have always come from your side. And today it's very unethical to see the non-necessaryness of such a fiscal world. Maybe it's pleonazem, some kind of supplement that might not be necessary if all of us were willing to admit that the Court of Auditors and other competent bodies that are called to do so are credible and acceptable to all. So, once again: I see no reason, I am not convinced by the opposition's arguments. I believe that if we want to radicalise our fight against capital, let's say that. So let us say and place ourselves in one such ideological framework, where such discussions will be compatible, and so they sound very balish, very unserious, because you are dancing and going from extreme neoliberalism to extreme, I will not say to wounded communism, but to the extreme socialist demagogist approach. We want a society where public interest is ensured on the basis of sound judgements. For the time being, we are still in the market economy and let this be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. There is more time than enough to discuss at this point. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I will say that I do not belong to that group of Members and through discussions over the last half-year, which want capitalism without capitalists, or socialism without communists, or the Church without clergy, and not least the banking system without loans, just saving. However, I expected Members and Members of the largest opposition party to know at least a little about the history of their President, if they are already talking about his CV and today I would just like to tell you that your President has not left the former Union of Communists. He was after a long struggle and insistence to remain inside, in some period of time excluded [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u96	Mr. Kumer, it really doesn't matter. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u97	only incorrect reference [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u98	They're going to read it in biography somewhere else. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u99	But I assumed they knew the history of their president, so I had to fix it because their MP said [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u100	It's not your job to teach them. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u101	I got it today. Otherwise, I support and do not support article 86.b of the amendment, because I believe that it limits to a sufficient extent those loans that may prove to be controversial in these management buy-ins or other matters. I think the very contradiction of these loans with the definition given by the Government is quite understandable. However, I think it is important for the public to point out some of the facts, why in this period, in the last six months, we have to correct some of the things that have been in the past four years - not to blame for all of this previous government - but to correct them in this mandate, because mistakes were made at the time. And however things turn around, unfortunately in August 2005 there is no way to avoid it, as some concrete measures have been followed since this meeting in amending legislation. And in the spring of 2006, the takeover law was amended, and the Banking Act was amended in the same year, which allowed management to take over. And if you are already citing statistics, then please be consistent here: by 2005 - two downloads, by the end of 2008 - twenty downloads! Be precise and precise here, not to say that they have been taken over since 1992. In the end, there's something else about the mailboxes. Postal collectors in this or previous mandate in Slovenia are nothing new. The mailboxes have been in fact since 1992. Some of you here today mentioned the arms trade. Since then, there have been mailboxes. Since then. Perhaps one of the players who argue with each other today will remember that they also went abroad to the casinos to wait for "cashflow" and put him in so-called mailboxes. So the story of postal collectors is not the story of the left, of the transition left or of the transition right, but of all those who, after 1990, took possession of the former social property and actually adopted it in one way or another. And it's a tradition, 18 years long, not the last five, six or eight years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Citizens expect us to resolve the situation in the area of entrepreneurship, credits, takunization in a certain foreseeable time, which will be acceptable to those from whom the country draws money, to fill the state treasury, as for those who live fairly and depend solely on their own work, and to ensure equality before the law, regardless of which customers you come from and who you fear to resent, because someone is rich and the wealth has gained it in a very short time. In most cases, all these people have very large capital and people who are employed there. Exercising and thinking that people will be out of work if we land the tycoons in some way makes no sense. Because in the developed world, the change of owners is constants, and workers mostly don't feel these exchanges. Who the hell are these tycoons? You have created all of you who have so far been in the government, all of you, who have made any economic decision, have made it possible to make managers' buyouts. But today these people can't figure out how to proceed. I wonder why you're arguing about what you created yourself and things could run like fairy tales! I don't know why there's so much contradiction and proof of who's right. One thing is for sure - the goal that was achieved had more interests and "fettered". That's what burned the left and right. The Slovenian national party has not participated in this and has nothing to do with it; it is only an active and constructive debater and draws attention to the irregularities of those who are going into a deeper abyss without a way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Today there is a lot of talk about the political history of individuals, even though I do not know whether this is part of this amendment. Let me add that I have never been to the Communist Party of Slovenia or Yugoslavia myself. The amendment to Article 3 is welcome, but it is more reasonable and useful than it is to impose restrictions that are necessary to prohibit where these prohibitions are necessary. This amendment imposes control, which I hope we all agree on, is necessary, and this amendment also speaks of the nullity of contracts when, of course, there are reasons for it. If this bill contained this, of course, this amendment would not be necessary, but if we had done it 10 years ago, I do not think we would have talked so much about tycoons and similar things in this House today. After 1990, Slovenia gained its political elite quickly after its independence. I think she won this political elite in some democratic way because we chose her in the elections. Every country, every new country also needs an economic elite. This economic elite in Slovenia has been born in a strange way, and we have to admit that. Those who were at the trough at the time had a fine possession of the social property of that time, and this process is still taking place today. Not all things are still in place, everything is not fully privatised and this elite has more access than everyone else and is supported by banks; unfortunately, banks that are predominantly state-owned, because credits, especially unsecured loans or under-secured or partially secured loans, are intended only for dedicated persons, not all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. During this period, this government has sent several 10 laws to Parliament, and this law that we are talking about today is, in its entirety, a bad law. Unfortunately, we must say what I have already said here, the worst law adopted by the government of Janez Janša is much better, still much better than the best law of the government of Borut Pahor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? I'm not filing a report. Anybody else want some? Then, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u107	Just for a little while. With regard to arms trafficking, if Mr Kumer knows anything else about this arms trade, he can propose the establishment of any commission of inquiry to detect what is not yet discovered. In this mandate, you have a majority of all mandates until you have found out nothing. As far as the mailboxes are concerned. It is true that many things could have happened in the past, but two important institutions, the Competition Office and the Securities Market Agency have not worked. There were two straw presidents who did absolutely nothing to make the procedures for competition and acquisition transparent. Nothing, until the change in the previous mandate, until the change; and this change has led to the discovery of postal collectors, only then did this happen, until then, the systemic approach of previous coalitions, before the government of John Janša, and the current one, in fact, can still exist and get the best credits, the most favourable credits to the one with the mailbox. In short, we would not repeat that story from the arms trade, it can be afforded by someone who is "eternal path" close to him, if he wants anything concrete, he can propose and set up a procedure differently. But it is right to support this amendment and to close all of these things that are going on in an untransparent way that is going through the mailboxes. And if anything illegal has happened, this matter will be null and void. Certainly, however, it is not in the national interest that postal collectors receive better credits, the most favourable loans. Even the names of some postal collectors have a very significant issue, suspicion, and it is right to investigate these suspicions, and because there is likely to be a lot of controversy, we also respond appropriately and sanction matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? Mr Vito Rožej, please, amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The debate that took place on this amendment shows, of course, that its consequences should be much broader than those of this law alone, at least to understand, because it is obvious that our views on the economy, which is organised in our country by the system as it is, about which colleague Juri has said a little more, are not completely cleared. I'm funny, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u110	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u111	that in the same breath there is talk of unjustifiable wealth, of tycoons and at the same time of national interest. [[...]] We need to know who is even theoretically easy to possess or possess former social property. All the years so far, and perhaps in the last four years, we have come to the point that, first of all, the state must withdraw from the economy and, second of all, that there must be one basic concentration of capital, that short-term ownership must become, not now the domain of all of them, but of the countries, but of certain individuals. And it is necessary to know that in the social system that we used to have, there are probably no people who would have just gone through the money in their socks to buy what generations have created in the '40s, '50s. If the money could come from where it came from, it could have come theoretically from people who had received property returned by denationalisation, but to a greater extent from abroad, where such a system as we have, had knowledge of decades before, and therefore some capital could be accumulated. That is how we must now decide what we want: we want domestic ownership, because it is in some famous national interest, or we do not want the locals to be owners. The second option is that the owners are foreigners, because they're the only ones who have the money. I therefore think that the schizophrenic argument that I have seen in the arguments of the debaters who have advocated this amendment also goes on to seek the reasons for the non-support of this amendment. A decision has to be made, and this government has decided that a way that is legal will allow those who know to be able to do so, to know how and with what they have, to come to a greater wealth than anyone else has, taking into account all the legal provisions that are contained in it. However, I think that the complete closure of the door to credit would mean even more in short, a cramp than this economy has experienced otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The old proverb says that whoever has enough fat can spread it a little on the wall. If we understand money under this fat, then we can find that money or the euro is always missing, and in this situation at all. And that is why it seems necessary for us to be as rational as possible and as reasonable as possible in better times or in times of prosperity, this is not desirable or even possible to say that it is not possible at a time of crisis. As far as this fiscal world is concerned, we believe in our parliamentary group, and I can also say that these tasks can be concentrated in existing services, bodies and agencies, such as Umar, various professional councils and so on. And it would save a lot of money. This fiscal world, I can't say it's unnecessary, but I hope to say it's unnecessary in these times. And as I have already said in the opinion of our Group, in these times, especially from a cost perspective, 200,000 euros is foreseen as financial consequences, in this respect it is wasteful to set up such an agency, especially because, as it is said, this could be organised more rationally in other services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendment to Article 4, which we absolutely support in the Slovenian National Party. Let me explain why. Article 4 shall have 106.a., 106.b., 106.c., 106.c., 106.d. and 106.e. Firstly, the Government sets up a fiscal council as a consultative body for the independent evaluation of the public financial policy, and in Article 106th article states: "Operational and administrative and technical tasks are carried out by the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The ministries and government services and the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia are obliged to provide this world with the information necessary for its work free of charge." I mean, three nebulosises that don't go together, like pears and apples and rabbits. They're not going. But what remains in this famous article 4 is: "Members of the fiscal world [[Article 106(4)]] act unprofessionally," but are entitled to the payment of the meeting. Secondly: "The President of this Council may conclude a contract to prepare analyses, broader opinions, starting points, concrete solutions," blah, blah, blah. [[...]] The contract - for some work that everyone in all ministries is already doing, well! And this is supposed to be a contribution to saving at the time of this country's recession! Now I really don't know if anyone's reading what we're accepting, whether someone invented it, I mean, it's literally a joke. [[...]] Fine! Fine, I'll be a member of the Fiscal Council, I'll make a contract, and I'll do an analysis that I'm going to rewrite from the UMAR analysis, which I'm going to rewrite from the Ministry of Finance's analysis, which is going to be copied by all the municipal officials and government officials by the administrative units who are going to report to local communities and administrative units. And we're all going to rewrite the first source, we're just going to merge it, we know how to sum it up, we're going to make a deal - and I'm going to make a nice 20 thousand euros, I'm going to be a member of the fiscal world, and I'm going to be a big loser. In doing so, I will be supported by the Secretary of State of Government, Mr Squeakl, and his staff - it says here, but they will support me, free of charge, with the materials we receive every day so much that we throw them away so that we can be ashamed of ourselves. Let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen! Let's be serious! I am sure that I appreciate the minister - this is one of the few ministers who is working hard, who is always with us - I am sure that he is not convinced of this article and of the establishment of this fiscal council, which will do something that already does the accreditation council that we have besides all other worlds. Well, how many more will we have? 82? And we're going to hire four Slovenes in this world, but three foreigners? And we have a thousand foreign audit houses that we're talking about today - "Braumhouse and..." and I don't know what they're doing. And we have a review, and Kosovo has a commission, and foreign audit houses have control of the supervisory councils, and supervisors, and supervisory authorities at different ministries, and now we're going to have another, 27th, which is going to be - what does it say? - who's going to work non-professionally, but he's going to get a meeting for it and he's going to be able to conclude an analysis contract, financially. Well, please, come on! This really isn't the time for a recession to have someone do something that's been doing hundreds of others. Please be smart. Accept the amendment, Article 4 should be abolished, and I promise we will be in the Slovenian National Party, if you accept it, this law, whose main solutions are listed, are suitable for solutions, but the law is not appropriate and we will accept it. Seriously, read all the articles. It is indeed a mockery from us, from citizens and citizens, from the National Assembly and all. What will this fiscal world serve? What for? To provide an independent assessment of public financial policy and the implementation of structural reforms?Oh, my God! Yes, we have 200 of these independent assessments and independent and structural reforms, and now another will make this assessment, which will, of course, be called by the government, and the government knows who the government is. The government has a coalition that's strong, and it's right that it's strong, that it's responsible, and they're going to do their job again. And then how can she say she's independent? Of course she won't be independent! It will be government and it is the same, because they have power and have that right. So think about Article 4, really. This would be a precedent if this article were to be adopted under this law or if you were so smart, smart, sober, and accept the amendment we are deleting in Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u117	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Colleagues, colleagues! In this article and in justifying support for this amendment, I can only attach to what my colleague Barovic has said so far, and allow us to also summarize from the materials that we have been given, some very interesting things which also point to, indeed, in my deep conviction, the incomprehensibility of this article, while also in some way leading the country that has been emerging in this country for the past half year, to which I am very critical, and I will base this on the following. The introduction, where you are speaking about the presentation of regulations in other legal systems, states: "The proposed solution is specific and adapted to the situation in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore cannot be compared with other legal systems." It is very clear that in all countries, there are certain authorities in all countries, that they are linked to the official institutions we have in Slovenia for years, from the already mentioned Bank of Slovenia, Umarja, to all the number of professional councils operating in the ministries, and that is why this fiscal world is incomparable. When it is argued why we are applying it, it is even more interesting to read the explanation of Article 99.b. The arguments for the establishment of a fiscal world are based on the perception that elected governments do not manage optimal public financial policies, notably in five respects, countercyclical fiscal policies, bias towards deficits, the enforcement of certain unsustainable policies, the short-term focus on the fulfilment of pre-election promises and the submission to stakeholders. And here is the key to this problem for me, the key to the way in which it is managed, the way in which it is ruled in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not in favour of those who are severely attacking all human resources changes, but you agree with those who say that when a coalition gets elections, on the basis of such an elected coalition, the government is elected, and this government must rule in the country. And with this rule it also assumes responsibility for all of these things, which are now because it is the perception of this government or someone that it is not being done, which is indicated here as an argument, why this fiscal world is being classified; and this has been happening in our country for the past six months, unfortunately, unfortunately. We have an energy council set up by the President of the Government, as far as I know, that this world is already being dissolved, to use a very graphic word, or at least the President who is supposed to lead it, I no longer know what powers it has. Therefore, I do not know why, for God's sake, we have to introduce into Slovenian legislation the Public Finances Act that if the Minister of Finance wants to have a society of wise men who will help him to manage fiscal policy, in the management of various policies, he always has the opportunity to set it up, to dissolve it, but not as described further to the explanation of article 99.c - to read again, "for ensuring the independence of the work of members, a member of the Fiscal Council cannot be dissolved unless it is found that he does not meet the legal conditions for his appointment." For God's sake, what did you put in your explanation?? If someone is illegally appointed, then we must resolve him, or we must not resolve him for five years; but in this entire document, I do not see a single sentence in which he is responsible, to whom he is responsible, and to what his work serves. This country has, as I have already said, so many and so many ministries, so many state institutions dealing with it, and I think that we all have such a good memory that we all know that what is happening in this loving country is really happening to warn Banka Slovenije, Umarja is not taking it seriously. And now I don't know if there's any other issue that's going to cost 200 000 euros after all, and I doubt if the hard work you've given her is going to cost 200 000 euros, and with some delay she's going to create a few months ago. Therefore, colleagues from the coalition, with the Government, stop this practice of different worlds, cash and I don't know what, and for God's sake - people who are responsible, who also have every opportunity to be called by the expert group to take the job into their own hands and to be responsible for it. That is why I am fully joining my colleague Barovic. If this article is drawn from this law, I will carefully consider supporting this matter, and that seems really painful to me. And as I said before, the minister should establish such an organ, dissolve it, and reestablish it, not give it a five-year mandate by marriage. Excuse me. I think you really kicked in the dark here if I may say so myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I also really ask you to accept the amendment and actually delete the Article 4 Article 10a of this Article - the Fiscal Council. Just for one reason: about a country or a parliament, we sometimes ask ourselves how we are going to end some things, better said - I ask the Minister if I can instead, because now the fiscal world will be set up, that the data will be erased. It is true that this will not be professional, but these people will spend so many thousands of euros again from the state treasury. This is what you in the coalition call "measures for" - at a time when it is an economic crisis. I do not know if anyone else hopes to make so many fools out of the citizens of Slovenia in this economic crisis. If the Ministry has arguments which institution will end, but not one, two, then let's confirm it. Is it by chance that such and such supervisory or fiscal councils are also paid for by elections? Then he's out of touch! When will the Slovenian economy be able to produce so much, so much work that, as a coalition, you can spend so much? I don't know. I asked the Minister of Economy on purpose to tell me how many companies went bankrupt from December to May, so that there were no excuses: the previous government. 117! We have to think about these things! But we always reward and create infertility, reward the week. People, start thinking once that all you have to do is pay for your job. He's been living on the job, not on the job! Because we will do this work again in Slovenia, believe me, in the jargon I will say, lazy people, it is hard to make people work and create again. This marriage is going to do it. There is absolutely no point in even marriage, which is what President Tone Rop himself said on the working body, because at the end of the day, the minister can invent this without the law and he doesn't have to ask anyone about this fiscal council. But I'm asking him, how many departments that are already doing this are going to be shut down so we can get one smart guy? I hope those words tell you something. I believe that you will accept this amendment, which we have tabled, that this fiscal council cannot in fact be allowed into the Public Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, 18 seconds, Mr Jerovšek, has the word to see how fast you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you. So, this fiscal council is for university professors and the payment of copyright awards, which they seem to recognise, but the economics professors have not announced a recession, no action, and I thank the government, which is what the explanation says. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] This is a reality that the elected Government does not lead optimal public financial policies. [[...]] This explanation is sincere, I thank her, but this fiscal world to such a [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek, your time has run out. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 4? Mr. Rogers. Anyone else? If I don't file a report. Please, Vito Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. The debates on the relevance of this amendment also raised concerns about payments, the prizes that members of this world were to receive and referred to EUR 10 000 and mentioned some responsibility to taxpayers in that money should be spent meaningfully. I agree that for a good job - we will probably all agree - everyone deserves a good reward. However, we are extremely inappropriate, in fact completely unethical, for someone to discuss such allegations who, for example, is a member of Luke's Supervisory Board in a year received 19,500 euros for meetings, but what is the current economic situation in Luka Koper? It seems to me a great deal of deception, and I cannot express my disgust over such deception and such a duality. If someone does a good job, let them get paid for it, and whoever doesn't do his job gets paid, I don't think he has anything to say about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Bezjak, unfortunately, you no longer have the opportunity to reply, to debate, the replicas are not in these debates, and time is spent by the Group of Members, so I can no longer give you the debate, and if you talk in procedural terms, I will interrupt you. You can have procedurally, but if you're going to talk contently, who wants procedurally? [[...]] Mr. Blackach, please, procedurally. But I'm warning you, I'm going to interrupt you if you go for a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u125	Dear Mr. President. I'll tell you what I think. But your sovereign right is that you can turn off the microphone at any time. The position you occupy gives you this right. Is that ethical and moral, you will decide for yourself. You also spoke yesterday about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but at the same time you debated things that had nothing to do with the debate we discussed. I would expect you, given that you must be equal to all Members of the National Assembly, your fellow Member coming from your party, to warn that he has discussed a matter which has nothing to do with the amendment, that he has violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you will remind him of it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would expect that from you, and I expect you to do it after I finish my part. My fellow Member also insulted my fellow Member. There was something to be said about a disgusting thing that referred to the fact that a fellow Member for a fair work had obtained a meeting in accordance with the rules laid down and adopted at the level of this executive authority. He probably got a smaller session than those who will now sit in these chairs after a new one; for, as we hear, all those who have now reduced their sessions receive some contracts along with one and a different kind of advice, as it will obviously be, with this provision in this law in this fiscal world, where we allocate 200 000 euros for various professors' advice. So, Mr President, I expect you to follow the rules of procedure and to remind your fellow Member in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also invite him to apologize for what he said about my fellow Member, Mr Bezjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I would even say, I must say, that you spoke in accordance with the purpose of the procedural proposal. As for my warning to Members and Members of the National Assembly, of course, I will judge and judge on the basis of my sovereign decision. Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, procedurally. But I'm warning you, you can't answer substantively, I'm going to stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Indeed, I will speak substantively, not as a fellow Member has let himself down, in fact to such a low level that, after all, there is a Member from the types of employment to an economic operator. Why do we oppose this fiscal world - once again, I stress [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Bezjak. I have to stop you. This is a substantive debate. Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 4? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. POSITION OF THE DAY’S LINE - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGAL AGREEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR COMMITMENTS FROM A CONSTRUCTION BY THE PUBLIC FUND OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT, DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETITION IN THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE FINANCING OF INVESTIGATION THAT PROVIDED THE SUSTAINITY OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE context OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u129	Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Allow me to present briefly the proposal for the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the liabilities of the loan leased by the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development to the European Investment Bank for the financing of investments that promote sustainable development. The proposed law deals with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the European Investment Bank loan liabilities of EUR 30 million to finance investments that promote sustainable development in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It will finance the investments of small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities. The Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development provides regional incentives in the form of favourable loans, capital injections, loan guarantees and grants, with a view to achieving more lasting public objectives in regional development and rural development. In recent years, the Fund has granted incentives mainly in the form of favourable loans. It shall use for its mission free-of-use assets, funds from received repayments of loans and external sources of loans. In recent years, the inflows of the fund from purchases and repayments of long-term loans, which are not sufficient to allocate new loans to a sufficient extent, have been reduced. The Fund makes it possible to use long-term loans with a moratorium on principal repayments up to 5 years and a repayment period of 15 years and an interest rate of slightly over 4% fixed, which reduces the annual availability of funds to carry out the activities of the Fund. In view of the fact that the Development Fund wants to ensure the annual level of regional incentives allocated so far amounting to around EUR 20 million per year, additional funding resources should be provided in the long term and a favourable debt. The adoption of the guarantee law is therefore a condition for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, by which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the European Investment Bank's obligations to the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from the loan. The concluded guarantee contract is one of the conditions for drawing on the European Investment Bank’s loan. The bill provides guarantees under the following conditions: a 5-year moratorium, the deadline for drawing the loan is 24 months from the conclusion, the last meal of the principal is 15 years after the conclusion, the currency of repayment of the principal and the payment of the interest is the same as the currency of withdrawal of the individual tranche of the loan, it is said that there must be no exchange risk; the rate of interest is fixed according to the currency and type of interest rate. The funds for the repayment of the loan will be provided by the fund from its own purpose and the financial implications for the State budget would therefore only have been incurred if the guarantee under this law had been cashed. In the event of a guarantee being cashed out, the Republic of Slovenia would comply with the applicable financial obligation in accordance with the law and would, at the same time, compensate these funds by cashing out the regressive right provided for in the contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to the fund. This contract will be concluded within 90 days of the ratification of the guarantee contract. As usual, in the case of the redemption of the issued guarantee under this law in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under item 6611 - Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the rights of consumption guaranteed. The guarantee under this law will fall within the quota of the State guarantees issued under the Budget Implementation Act. As has already been said, loans from the European Investment Bank are due to the reputation of the owners of the Member State of the European Union, including us, and its financial banks are among the most favourable loans on the market. The Bank shall ensure that part of the benefit is transferred to the final beneficiaries when loans are transferred by means of the provisions laid down in the Financial Treaty. These were also the basic reasons taken into account by the Government in its decision to propose a loan guarantee. Dear Members, Members and Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia on Loan Liabilities, leased by the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development, at the European Investment Bank, be adopted to finance investments that promote sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 13th urgent meeting on 10 June 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a guarantee act of the Republic of Slovenia for loans from the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development at the European Investment Bank to finance investments promoting sustainable development submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. At its 26th meeting, on 5 June 2009, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided on a proposal for the consideration of the bill in question by emergency procedure and adopted it. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which forwarded specific comments to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. On this basis, the Committee was informed of the Committee's proposal for a Drafting Amendment to Article 1, following a third of the comments submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service and adopted by the Committee at a further hearing. Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Minister responsible for Finance, representatives from the Finance Ministry, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants to the proposal. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance gave a brief presentation of the text submitted. Otherwise, it follows from the explanation of the bill's proposal that it will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee agreement between Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, by which our country guarantees the obligations of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund under the leased loan. The conclusion of a contract as its ratification is the main condition for drawing on a loan of EUR 30 million, which will soak up the basic activity in line with it, namely the promotion of the development and financing of regional development projects. This loan is intended to finance investments of small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities that support sustainable development by providing funds to repay the loan. The adoption of the law in question after an assessment does not require the adoption of new or changes to the rules in force, nor does the proposer provide for any other consequences under the financial or guarantee contract. With regard to the comments made by that service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained to the Committee that the drafter of the law in previous coordination had provided an appropriate justification for the solutions put in place with regard to the first two comments, whereas the last comment had been withdrawn by the proposal for an amendment to the Committee. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted individual articles of the legislative proposal following the amendment to Article 1 below. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendment of the Committee is incorporated is prepared under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Another enkerat. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers! In the Slovenian National Party, we understand what a public fund for regional development is. We support regional rural development in the Slovenian National Party. We also know this fund under the name "fish fund". And who doesn't want this fund to help and work? We're in. The facts identified in the assessment are that the annual volume of the Fund’s available resources for the performance of its important activities is decreasing, however, that Fund wants to ensure the annual scope of the incentives granted so far. We are absolutely in agreement with this in the Slovenian National Party. We hope and believe that when we say yes to the proposal of the guarantee law, we hope that Slovenia's regional development fund will provide the annual scale with our help, with our 'yes'. The only concern that we were concerned about the treatment of the homework is Article 5 of this Act, which states that the guarantee provided for in Article 1, paragraph 1, is that the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the obligations of the public fund to be included in the guarantee quota provided for in the law governing the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In our own words, we are concerned only whether, with the numerous guarantees and assistance we have been providing in recent months and the guarantees we are providing, the State of Slovenia will be able to pay all the guarantees in cases where anything really happens. I got the answer yes. I trust the government, I hope that this is indeed true, I hope that this guarantee will not have to be paid to the State, I hope that the "fish fund" will help to the same extent for rural development, so on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and our colleagues we say "yes" to the proposal for a loan guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for commitments from the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development at the European Investment Bank to finance investments that promote sustainable development. I read the entire address on purpose to know what we're going to say "yes" to a given guarantee and marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 1996 the Republic of Slovenia established the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development - the so-called Fisheries Fund - to achieve the public goals of regional development and rural development. In order to achieve more lasting public objectives in regional development and rural development, rural development has been given and provides regional incentives. The purpose of the asset was obtained to the greatest extent by payment of the founder under the law on the use of the funds derived from the purchase on the basis of the law on the property transformation of the company and other payments made by the founder. In order to carry out its activities, the Slovenian Regional Development Fund also acquires other development funds provided by the founder and leaser of loans from international financial institutions intended to co-finance projects from defined development priorities in the country. We are therefore talking about the EUR 30 million loan guarantee that the Fund has acquired from the European Investment Bank, which has recently significantly increased its credit activity and thus is working to address the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the main conditions for drawing on that loan. We are very clear in the Slovenian People's Party's Group for more coherent regional development and will therefore support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much, President. A nice hello to you all. One more time. Of course, during the economic crisis and recession, all investments are welcome, they work positively, countercyclically, but if development is taking place in the countryside of Slovenia, which is, of course, one of our pearls and development opportunities, it is all the more necessary and also important, so in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, of course, we strongly support and welcome this guarantee. The fact is that the main efforts now in Slovenia are aimed at effectively addressing the consequences of the crisis, and we must not, in any way, reduce the dynamics of the implementation of the various measures to ensure a more equitable development of the entire state territory. This will certainly help to revive and accelerate economic growth in Slovenia in the most developed Member States of the European Union. Regional development is also, or in particular, the area of State intervention. One of the important institutions of this intervention is the Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development in our country. Most of us know it better under the name of the so-called Fisheries Fund, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have no doubt supported the EUR 30 million loan guarantee acquired by Slovenia at the European Investment Bank. As a country, we will guarantee the obligations of the Fisheries Fund under the said loan as a country. The guarantee and the credits obtained thus seem particularly important to us, because the fund, unlike the past, when it operated mostly through grants, has been granting regional incentives mainly in the form of favourable loans in recent years. Even though the profession ensures mainly polycentric development, it is said that the development of selected development centres, from which the beneficial effects should also extend to their hinterland or rural areas, and in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that, in addition to this basic direction of regional development, there is certainly a need for diversified aid and such dispersed aid as regional incentives in the form of favourable loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to the municipalities for sustainable projects, which will be awarded the fund on the basis of the resulting credit to the European Investment Bank. Maybe it's not over the sentence on the so-called pond fund yet. Its operation is not of much interest to the mass media because it is certainly a very positive and good sign at a time when the affairs and crises are on the agenda. Obviously also in this case, as the Minister of Finance, and not only his own, estimates that it works extremely professionally and effectively. That is why we expect and anticipate and are confident that this will continue in the future, and therefore we do not expect any major sums of guarantees in respect of this law. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a guarantee law and will further support the ratification of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for commitments from a loan leased by the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development [[the so-called Fisheries Fund]] It is essential for the European Investment Bank to finance investments that promote sustainable development following an urgent procedure, in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State caused by the more costly indebtedness of the public fund. The adoption of the guarantee law is one of the necessary conditions for drawing on the European Investment Bank’s loan. As a result, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development needs additional financial resources in 2009 and beyond, as the recapitalisations from the purchases and repayments of the loans so far do not provide the necessary amount of free resources for the award of new regional incentives. The adoption of laws and the completion of all procedures by the end of 2009, allowing the European Investment Bank's first loan to be drawn up in 2009, are only possible by adopting the proposed law as a matter of urgency. The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the proposed law, as it will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, by which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee to the lender of the European Investment Bank the obligations of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund under the loan. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the main condition for drawing up a loan of EUR 30 million, which will allow the fund to carry out its activities, namely the promotion of the development and financing of regional development projects. It will finance investments by small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities, thereby enabling loans to finance investments that promote regional development, such as investment in development and improvement of competitiveness, production and service sectors, such as improving the competitiveness of enterprises, promoting entrepreneurship, investment in business zones, developing tourism and improving social and educational infrastructure, investment to promote sustainable development, such as environmental improvement, environmental regulation, balanced development of regions, development infrastructures, other investments to promote regional development, previously agreed by the lender, borrower and vice versa. For all this reason, the adoption of this guarantee law, as well as the ratification acceptable to the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, it is important that this law creates a legal basis for the conclusion of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia of the EIB, which, of course, will also guarantee the Republic of Slovenia's obligations under the Slovenian Regional Development Fund for the leased loans. I think it is right, because it is important loans, for coherent regional development, for rural development, because all similar investments in Slovenia are lacking and it is right that such loans are available to the fund and, as a result, to users and are available under appropriate conditions or under favourable conditions. This is a 30 million-euro pump. Better this than nothing. This law is something that the Government should have in mind and also similar measures at the time of the start or outbreak of the crisis in Slovenia. In fact, instead of thinking about how we are going to subsidise the week, we should think about how we are going to invest in Slovenia in those development projects that are needed in the long term. And I fear that now we will run out of funds for these projects, that we will eat practically or that money will be eaten by those who, of course, have gone out of work and, as a result, will not be for investment or for some creation of work and employment. So wrong world, you'd call it. Thank God it's at least something, and that's what we're talking about today, so we're going to support it. I am afraid that such projects will in the future also be halted by the fact that there will be very little funding that we have for the resolution and elimination of social problems. I am not saying that this is not necessary, this is necessary, but these social problems need to be avoided. But we can avoid it by preventing it from happening. However, we can prevent this by providing jobs and work, of course. These measures were all too small or practically absent, and therefore we will have a huge share of the public financial expenditure for passive forms of social assistance. We will therefore support the Slovenian Democrats by means of this Communication that we should have thought long before about similar measures, investments and incentives in all areas and to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u143	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development is a financial organisation dedicated to the sustainable achievement of the public objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of regional development and rural development. In providing incentives, it implements a policy to promote coherent regional development and rural development policy. In doing so, the Fund works with the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development in order to ensure a coordinated and comprehensive supply of irreversible and returnable forms of development incentives. In addition, it shall cooperate with development promoters at regional level and promote the design and functioning of regional financial schemes by means of its means. As far as the funding of the Fund is concerned, the latter acted primarily with grants and has recently been financed through loans. By adopting this guarantee law, supported by DeSUS Members, this is an act of guarantee to the Republic of Slovenia from a loan leased by the Fund to the European Investment Bank. At the meeting of the working body, the Finance Minister explained that the Fund had almost already obtained a credit of EUR 30 million and that this law on the guarantee of our country should also be adopted as a condition for the signing of the contract. The DeSUS Group will support the guarantee law under consideration, as the adoption of the latter constitutes the legal basis for the conclusion of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. As far as the case is concerned, the loan may not have been repaid and the law also includes a fuse, namely a regression request by the Republic of Slovenia to municipalities or companies. However, in our parliamentary group of such a scenario, that is to say, we do not expect the cancellation of the guarantee due to the professional and economic functioning of this fund, which is an additional reason to support the law on the basis of which the credit agreement will be concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE REGISTRATION OF THE JUDGMENT, AFTER EXTENSION. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u145	Good afternoon, nice greeting, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Judicial Register Act brings three major novelties. The first novelty is a transparent and clear regime for the processing of personal data. Another novelty is the transparent provision of information to business entities on the conditions laid down by the rules for the performance of individual economic activities. And the third novelty is a more efficient functioning of the system All in one place with a more precise definition of VEM obligations. If I briefly present the first point concerning the processing of personal data. It is now that more clearly defined and protected processing is primarily a single national home number relating to members, representatives or members of the supervisory authority and personal data of other persons. It is clear from the proposed arrangements that the EMSO must not be published on the IAPES website and that this publication must not be covered either by the publication of the entry on the website or by the documents published on the website. Neither the extract from the Registry may contain single parent numbers, except in precisely specified cases, which are limited to specified conditions. Such strict protection of a single national home number is based on the requirements of the Constitutional Court and also on the warnings of an information officer or an authorised person who has been very precisely identified on this issue. The second point or second improvement is the aim of providing more transparent information to business entities on what conditions for the economic activities required. At present, the system is such that the conditions are prescribed in a variety of regulations and dispersed by a multitude of acts and are therefore relatively imprecise. This solution provides for the establishment of a single register of these conditions, this register being drawn up by the Ministry of the Economy, and when a law relating to such conditions is adopted, it is incumbent on the Ministry of the Economy to inform the Ministry of the Economy of the new conditions that it may transmit to the Ministry of Public Administration, which is published in the updated catalogue on the public administration website. The third innovation brought by the proposed law is, however, the pursuit of the goal of more effective control of the system of points All in one place. The obligation of these VEM points is regulated, more detailed supervision of their operations is also regulated, and there may be particularly important reasons for withdrawing the authorisation to provide VEM services. These are in short news proposed in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Register Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. At its 5th meeting, on 29 May 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Justice, a summary procedure, which was already decided on 11 May by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for National Organisations and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the supplementary explanation, the representative said what we had just heard by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. The representative of the Council of State expressed support for the proposed law, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had no comments, including the members and members of the committee had no comments or discussions on the proposed law. As no amendments to the draft law on second reading have been adopted in the home labour body or have been tabled at all, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the law be adopted in the form presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register, as it is a provision that will regulate the processing of personal data more clearly and more transparently. In the light of the information authority's warnings regarding the protection of personal data and the position of the Constitutional Court, of course, we support the amendment relating to the restriction on the use or publication of the home number. In the previous term, we have adopted amendments which have allowed the entrepreneur to submit applications, proposals or other applications for entries in the register in one place. In this regard, it seems welcome to make progress in preparing a review of the required conditions for carrying out individual economic activities, since the individual conditions are dispersed under different laws. While we believe in the Group that, according to the principle of friendly public administration, this should already exist, but better late than never. For people, certain procedures need to be facilitated, especially today, when the economic or entrepreneurial initiative is all the more important and welcome. Members of the Slovenian People's Party we are very much on the ground among people and we can say that the VEM system - everything in one place - was well received. It is logical, however, that practice will show the need to improve the system, and we will therefore support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, all of you. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register as a reduced procedure will, of course, be supported by LDS Members. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to stress that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register introduces new information solutions that allow more efficient and more user-friendly implementation of procedures, the inclusion of a court registry in the business register for electronic registration and electronic management of the collection of documents, and the publication of entries on public websites. The draft law shall ensure the publication and accessibility of the data taking into account the position expressed in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the warnings of the information officer concerning the protection of personal data, clearer certain restrictions on the public to the uniform home number of the members, representatives or members of the supervisory authority of the registration and personal data of other persons. The proposal shall provide the appropriate legal basis for the provision or publication of data on entities kept in the business register of Slovenia and the members of the European Union. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support solutions that mean less bureaucracy for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, solutions that make our justice system more efficient and user-friendly. We will therefore support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register in the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello to the Secretary of State! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. The Court Registry Act is one of those rules in which both the Information Officer and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia find in their provisions that the protection of personal data and the proportionality of legal interference in the protection of personal data have not been adequately resolved. The proposed amendments to the law provide the appropriate legal basis for acts or publication of data on entities maintained in the business register of the Republic of Slovenia as well as in the business registers of the Member States of the European Union. It also seems important for us to supplement the Law on the Court Registry, which regulates the obligations of VEM points, the supervision of their business and the reasons for their withdrawal for carrying out the VEM procedures. Amendments to the law define more clearly the proportionality of the act and the right to protection of personal data, as pointed out by both the information officer and as expressed in the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the amendments introduced by this Act are without prejudice to the basic principles of the Register of Courts, among which I consider the following to be most important: the principle of public access to the data entered in the Register of Courts, the principle of publicity of the effect of the entry which causes an irrefutable domain, that everyone is aware of the information entered in the Register of Courts and the principle of created effects of the entry applicable to all those entries for which the Company Act provides that they shall take legal action with the relevant entry in the Register of Courts, and that procedures shall be simplified. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Respectable. The proposed amendment to the Judicial Register Act, which provides for three sets of amendments and, according to the proposaler, is governed by the Registry of the Court of Justice, we will not object in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. While we estimate that some of the changes are positive, after a detailed review of the text of the law, we estimate that they are more cosmetic corrections, which are largely unnecessary and do not contribute to legal certainty. Most of what the proposer refers to as introducing further clarity into the provisions of the existing law is mere pleonasm. The clarification of enough clarity is an unnecessary commitment, which has no added value, but creates the impression that in the absence of vision, the ministry is more concerned with the consultative evaluation of its work. The content is the most important set that sets limits on the clarity of data on the single parent number of shareholders, agents or members of the supervisory authorities and personal data of other persons. The proposer proposes that the parent number should not be published on the IAPES website. Thus these numbers must not contain the publication of the file on the website, nor the documents published on the website. As a rule, that parent number shall not be included in the copy of the court register, except under specified conditions. The applicant shall substantiate this by taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court and the warnings of the information officer concerning the protection of personal data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we hope that this is indeed a matter of genuine concern for the information officer to respect the rights guaranteed and that it will not prove to be a matter for the protection of precisely defined political and capital-motivated interests in the future. It will also be in the eyes that it is not clear whether such a public restriction solution has been aligned with the APIPS. The second set of amendments concerns the review and provision of information to business entities under the conditions laid down by the rules for the performance of individual economic activities. The review will be published on the public website of the Ministry of Public Administration. The third set of changes is the more effective operation of the VEM integrated system - All in one place. The amendment is justified by the more effective functioning of the VEM system. In doing so, it should be pointed out that this system is already working very well in practice, as the bill-maker also points out. That is why these changes do not seem urgent to us and will not bring any improvement. However, as we have pointed out at the outset, we will not oppose changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u157	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register, which is before us, contains three sets for us, seems to us to have needed changes to update this law. The first relates to the transparent and clear definition of personal data, the second regulates the review and provision of information to business entities under the conditions laid down by the rules for the performance of individual economic activities, and finally the third amendment, which speaks of the more effective functioning of the VEM system - All in one place. I would not like to repeat myself, so I will be brief, because these major changes are also the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly without any comments on the proposal for a law, so in the Group of Members we really believe that the changes that are before us are necessary, good and we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u159	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the implementation of the Judicial Register Act, in particular in the work relating to information systems and the single VEM entry point - All in one place - and in the work relating to the public of personal data, it has been shown that in the basic law in these segments it is necessary to regulate more comprehensively with a view to eliminating and incoherent and more efficient performance and procedures with a view to protecting personal data. Accordingly, the novelty shall take full account of the warnings of the information officer concerning the protection of personal data and shall intervene in that right. In fact, an EMHO of individuals who are not representatives, members or members of the supervisory authorities, even though it is not available in the extracts from the Court Registry, is still or appears in the decisions authorising entry and related documents on the IAPES websites. The novelty thus prevents this access to personal data. Members of the DeSUS support such a solution in the light of the protection of personal data and only a legitimate proportionate interference with it. The second set of changes relates to the more efficient operation of VEM - All in one place. A clearer definition of the obligations of these points, the supervision of the latter and the reasons for withdrawing the authorisation to carry out the VEM procedures is proposed. The VEM system allows simplified procedures, faster and more cost-effective procedures, which undoubtedly has a positive impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. However, the solutions proposed are designed to improve this system, which is clearly to be supported. The amendments also concern the review and provision of information to business entities, of course, under the conditions laid down by the rules governing the conduct of individual economic activities. The dispersion of these conditions in various acts is a reason for their impreciseness. Therefore, the proposed centralisation at the Ministry of the Economy and the review will also be published on the websites of the Ministry of Public Administration. In short, the proposal of the novel consistently and clearly eliminates the inconsistencies that have emerged in practice in the implementation of this law and allows more efficient and more friendly procedures to be carried out by the parties. Therefore, the DeSUS Members will contribute their vote to its adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register, which we are considering today in the National Assembly, regulates less complex amendments to the Law on the Court Register, but at the same time important in order to ensure transparent and clear legal arrangements. The novelty governs the processing of personal data required in registration procedures, taking into account the principles of proportionality of legal interference in the right to the protection of personal data. The views of the Constitutional Court and the Information Commissioners in this area shall pursue the objective of providing transparent information to business entities under the conditions laid down by the rules governing the conduct of individual economic activities. In particular, the provision of the obligation of VEM points and oversees their functioning, ensuring the appropriate legal basis, providing or publishing data on subjective entries maintained in the business register of the Republic of Slovenia, in the systems of publication of data on business entities; business registers, EU Member States and other countries, and eliminating certain inconsistencies of the current arrangements found in the implementation of the applicable law. The following main solutions are proposed for the bill. In order to provide transparent information to business entities under conditions laying down rules for the performance of individual economic activities, the proposed regime whereby the Ministry responsible for the economy should prepare an appropriate review of the conditions laid down for the performance of individual economic activities and the obligations of other ministries in relation to the preparation of such an examination are proposed. The proposed addition shall govern the obligations of VEM points, the supervision of their operations and the grounds for withdrawing the authorisation to carry out the VEM procedures. The rules on the attractiveness of local jurisdiction in respect of the part of the registration entity shall not apply to university members, as they differ from other parts of the registration entities by having the position of a legal person and it is therefore proposed that the registration of a member of the university by the competent court in whose territory the member is established. The proposed amendment provides for a more transparent and clearer restriction of the public’s data on the emmes of the members, representatives or members of the control body of the registration and personal data of other persons, taking into account the views expressed in the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and alerts the information officer as to the type of personal data and ensuring the proportionality of the legal interference with the right to the protection of personal data. An appropriate legal basis shall be provided for the provision or publication of data on registration entities maintained in the business register of the Republic of Slovenia in the systems for the publication of data on the business entities of the Member States of the European Union and other countries. We will support this novelty in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW ON THE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first written by Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act at its 5th session on 29 May 2009. The law was drafted by the SDS Parliamentary Group with first-signed Jozet Tank. The College considered this law on 11 May and provided for it to be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We had the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. The representative of the applicant said in the supplementary explanation that the proposed text of the law was made at a time when the Law on Lawyers was still in the referendum or constitutional opinion, so the SDS Group tabled certain amendments which, given that the Law on Lawyers had entered into force at that time, aligned the text of the law with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The State Council has not upheld the law. Representatives of the Government must say that, although they have in principle agreed with the law, they do not see the need to adopt this law because it has entered into force of the Law on Lawyers. Members and members of the committee generally felt that the proposed solution was already covered by the Law on Lawyers and that there was no need to redevelop this area, we opposed the opposition Members because we felt that the law was more broadly governed by this area, as I would explain later in the role of the representative of the SDS Group. The Committee then voted on the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the SDS Group and did not adopt them. The Committee also voted on all articles of the law and adopted a decision opposing the opposition Members that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act was not a case for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to give you another word, Mr Gorenak, as a representative of the applicants for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. So, as has already been said, the SDS Group tabled this bill at a time when the Law on Lawyers or the Referendum Initiative was being reviewed by the Constitutional Court. Although we clearly considered that there was no legal aid when we adopted that law, the Law on Lawyers, and we have also proved this in this procedure, there is no problem with representation under official duty, which was confirmed by the Minister in one of the answers to Mr Cernač's parliamentary question, and yet we have decided that, at least as regards representation under official duty, this matter would be settled by amending the Criminal Procedure Act. That's what we did. It must be said that at this time, at the time of the postponement of the law to be examined on the labour market, the referendum initiative was rejected, that the Law on Lawyers had entered into force. So what is the difference between the text of the law before us and the text of the law in the Law on Lawyery? Having given the Presidents of the courts, district, district courts a substantially broader range of possibilities for appointing lawyers for representation under official duty. In addition to the fact that the President of the Court can select these lawyers from the so-called, conditionally speaking, regional lists, in this Law on Criminal Procedure for cases of representation under official responsibility, the possibility of the President of the Court is wider, namely, that these lawyers for representation under official responsibility may also be determined whether, we can say, directly from the list of lawyers at the Bar Association of Slovenia. We are therefore convinced that the law is without prejudice to the Law on Lawyers, that the law in some way complements this supplement in the Law on Lawyers and gives the Presidents of the Courts a significantly broader possibility of determining lawyers for representation under official duty. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we still believe that this law makes sense to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u167	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. As on my mother's working body, I repeat on this prey the Government's position, which we have already given on the parent's working body. This is because the idea followed by the proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Act essentially means to provide a lawyer on an official basis when there are no candidates who would be on the list of lawyers who are willing to provide such assistance. This issue, according to the Government, is sufficiently and perfectly well regulated by the Law on Lawyers - C, which, as has already been said today, has already entered into force, and therefore we do not see the need for further and different regulation of this issue in the Criminal Procedure Act. An additional argument in this direction is that the Criminal Procedure Act is a system law which is dedicated to other objectives and the mechanism for determining the defence counsel by official duty is in fact the subject matter of the Special Law on Lawyery, where this, as I have already said, is properly regulated. Finally, I should point out that Article 2 of this proposal also provides for the deletion of the text of the Law on Lawyers, which is one of the legislative procedures which we do not approve in the Government; that is, that one law interferes with the substance of another law. For this reason, too, the Government is of the view that the proposed amendments are not appropriate for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u169	Hello again. We will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure following a reduced procedure in the LDS Group, as this law has not been supported by the home labour body. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, deals with the same issue as has been addressed in the already adopted Law on Lawyerry. With regard to this law, the Group of Members and Members of Parliament, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested even a referendum, the effect of which was assessed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, by decision of 5.5.2009, concluded that the postponement or rejection of the Law on Lawyerry could have had an adverse effect and therefore no referendum was opened. The Law on Lawyers will be sent for publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and will enter into force in accordance with its final provision. The adoption of this proposal makes no sense, since the same content is already governed by the Law on Lawyers. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a new proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, in which it aligns this law with several constitutional decisions. In view of the fact that the motions for a law on criminal procedure have already been tabled in the legislative procedure, it will not be possible, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to deal with the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia until the law on criminal procedure, which we are currently considering, has been completed. It will therefore also be delayed to bring the Criminal Procedure Act into line with the above-mentioned decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can reassurance how certain parties to the National Assembly understand the respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court and its decisions. For those reasons, the LDS Group will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members and Members of the SDS proposes that the Criminal Procedure Act be supplemented by the appointment of the President of the Court, acting on an official duty. If this is not possible, the President of the Court of Justice shall, on an official basis, place the defence counsel from the Registry of Lawyers of the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia. The law's motion therefore recognises that the amendments to the Law on Lawyers are not sufficient and that without appropriate solutions there could be a situation where the lawyer's client could not be appointed on an official duty basis because there would be no lawyers on the list of lawyers on the official duty list and therefore there would be a situation where legal protection could not be exercised. They also acknowledge that this issue was justified in the Law on Lawyers. The question proposed by Members and Members of the SDS was therefore justified and is now regulated in recent amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers, which were so vehemently opposed to the same Members and Members that they even proposed a referendum on its content, indeed with another but also a premeditated argument. It can therefore be concluded that the Government and the ruling coalition's findings were fully substantiated so that the flawed provisions of the Law on Lawyers could have resulted in the failure to enforce legal representation by a lawyer, and thus some procedural acts in criminal proceedings that are necessary for effective prosecution. It is precisely the proposal put forward by Members and Members of the SDS this time that proves how their opposition to the Government's amendment of the Law on Lawyers was unfounded; and even more so that the applicants knew this well; nevertheless, they agreed to allow for harmful consequences; and this is the first, substantively important reason why the Group of Social Democrats agrees that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. In addition, the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has three additional reasons for its rejection of the bill. Firstly, since the dual treatment of the same issue once in the Law on Lawyers and the second time in the CAP, even if it is essentially the same, is not legally permissible, as it introduces confusion and confusion into the legal system. Secondly, since it is legally incorrect that the issues contained in the Law on Lawyers are regulated in the CAP, this causes legal confusion, as it is expected that all matters relating to one legal substance are regulated in one law, but not that the content of this regulation should be sought in several different laws. Thirdly, even if we had overlooked all the above arguments, the debate on this proposal might still have a substantive basis at a time when there was no decision by the Constitutional Court on the inadmissibility of a referendum on the Law on Lawyery. However, when the Constitutional Court has decided that a decision at the referendum could have unlawful consequences, and therefore the law on legal representation is in force, the debate in this proposal of the law is totally unnecessary and simply constitutes a conscious creation of confusion and a waste of time. It only means one instance of the opposition's typical operation, when the proposals of the laws, even when it knows that they are meaningless, are only made so that it can later claim how many excellent proposals it has tabled and the coalition did not want to accept them, but it was said to have rejected them arrogantly. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats, as they say, will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I have to say that I did not intend to take part in the role of the Group of Members, because I have already explained the matter to the proponents, but we hear from the leaders or presentations of the Group of Members so many non-truths that I have to take a call. So the Law on Lawyers, which was directly linked to this matter and to our reaction, we have dealt with some situations where the Ministry of Justice has been falsely displaying certain data. That is, we have considered it in the context of the Minister's claim that lawyers for representation on official duty and the provision of free legal aid on so-called lists are no longer listed, etc. We later found that this was not true in the answer to his question and in the request for exact numbers; therefore, that he was showing accurate data. From the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which deals specifically with this area, we were also able to understand very clearly that on 23 January 2009 the Minister of Justice, with the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, concluded a special reply. I called that deal "deal" there, but let's just say it was a deal. This agreement has been called: we recognize the determination of legal services and disciplinary procedures for you, you will do so yourself, in agreement with the Minister, i.e. in agreement with the Minister, and we will remain on these lists of representations after the official duty. This was therefore an agreement and, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Lawyers, there was no substantive reason for them to react. When we were sent to the Constitutional Review of the Law on Lawyers, which is directly linked to the law that we are considering here today, we had no bad intentions. We did not object to the determination of the way in which lawyers are determined, which we later regulated in the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is at this juncture of the agenda, but we have made it very clear that we support the law, but we do not support what is called the pricing of legal services and disciplinary procedures that have passed into the hands of lawyers again. We have made it clear that we oppose this and do not oppose the rest of the law. Therefore, to link this law, namely the Criminal Procedure Act, which we are dealing with with with some recognition by the SDS Group, that something was wrong until then in the so-called Smurf Act, is irresponsible, unfair and unfair. Let's move on. Of course, I look forward to it on behalf of the parliamentary group if the Ministry of Justice is preparing amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. These are probably necessary. We will listen to the arguments, we will listen to the explanations and we will accept them. However, speaking of the fact that this law that we are considering today is some kind of obstacle, some kind of problem on the way to that law prepared by the Ministry of Justice, is also something that has not been heard. Each Member Group, each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to make laws. That is probably the case with our largest opposition group. However, it is the duty of the National Assembly to deal with, adopt or reject this law. And to report to the SDS Group that it has introduced some law and thereby impedes the work of the Ministry of Justice in some way, I must refuse. As far as harmful consequences are concerned, this law, which is directly related to the Law on Lawyers and was introduced at a time when the Law on Lawyers had not yet been in force, of course in connection with this talk of the so-called harmful consequences of the Law of Sturm, must be rejected. Storm's law in connection with the fact that it was passed under the Law on Lawyers was perfectly fine. And doing around the Law on Lawyering is just paying pre-election promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u175	Nice greeting, president, secretary of state. Thank you for your word. I would not like to pour oil on the fire in this debate, because I am sure, and in the Group of Members, indeed, the circumstances in which we are now dealing with this legal change are as different as they were when it was introduced. And it is possible that when it was submitted, the reasons were as described here by the applicants. But the fact is, now it's a different law on lawyering than at the time of filing. And I think that, in fact, it is less important what we think about this proposal today because we believe that the amended and currently in force Law on Lawyering is properly regulated by the establishment of a lawyer under official responsibility and representation in the event of free legal aid. However, if we persisted in this amendment, we believe that not only would we regulate the same matter at two ends, but even in certain parts such a law on criminal procedure, which would have been passed if it had been voted on, would have been contrary to the law currently in force. It is said that we have done nothing but do more work for lawyers, who, in any case, are already overworked and overpaid. Therefore, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has adopted a decision that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, and in the Group of Members we will indeed support such a proposal. We believe that Slovenia's legal order and representation under its official responsibility, the placement of a lawyer, free legal aid will not be better regulated than they have been so far, and that they are properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u177	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The substance of the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is the expansion of the range of possibilities for the Presidents of the Courts, who choose lawyers on official duty, not only by letter by district courts or by regions, but also by the Registry of Lawyers at the Bar of Slovenia. The proposed novel was written before the Constitutional Court’s decision to abolish the constitutionality of the Law on Lawyers and it follows that the legislator, with the latest amendment to the Law on Lawyers to ensure the right to legal protection or to defence in criminal proceedings, provided for a mechanism that effectively ensures everyone the enjoyment of human rights, even if the number of lawyers on the list of lawyers would not be sufficient. Both the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is rejected until the proposed solution is adopted. The arguments for a negative opinion are, above all, that such a solution does not fall within the system law, because it is an organisational solution that the Law on Lawyering already properly regulates this matter, which practically means that this proposal wants to regulate something that is already in force. We attach DeSUS Members to this argument and therefore do not intend to support the proposed novel. We believe that by adopting it, the latter would mean double regulation of exactly the same matter, which would certainly lead to ambiguity of regulation. According to our assessment of the law on legal representation, this matter is properly regulated, so we do not support such duplication, which would only lead to legal inconsistencies and confusion in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u179	Dear Mr. Vice President, your honors are here! The proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act with the first signed Jozet Tank assesses that, in particular, in terms of the legal security of the parties and in terms of the effectiveness of the trial, the Criminal Procedure Act should be partially supplemented. The right to a trial without undue delay is also considered by the Slovenian National Party's Group to be a constitutional category. Proposed new 71a. The article reads: "In all cases under this law, the President of the Court shall appoint the Advocates' List on the basis of an official duty. If this is not possible, it shall be made available from the legal registry of the Slovenian Bar Association, taking into account the office of the lawyer and the professional qualifications of the lawyer in the field of criminal law. If the lawyer unjustifiably declines to provide the accused under official responsibility, the President of the Court shall inform the Chamber of Jurislaw of Slovenia thereof." An important addition is proposed in the Criminal Procedure Act, where, following the mandatory presence of an advocate for assistance and advice to the parties in the proceedings and to the injured party in a criminal procedure which is the victim of violence. The proposed solution complements the regulation of the issue of representation of parties where the presence of the counsel is compulsory and is subject to the Criminal Procedure Act. In all cases under the Criminal Procedure Act, the President of the Court shall be appointed by the Advocate on the list of lawyers representing the parties on an official basis. If this is not possible or has been associated with difficulties in the speed and efficiency of the conduct of the criminal procedure, the President of the Court shall place the defence counsel on the basis of an official duty from the Legal Counsel's Office of Slovenia, taking into account the seat of the lawyer's office and the lawyer's professional competence in the field of criminal law. The latter shall be introduced for reasons of legal certainty. In such cases, the representation of the counsel under official responsibility shall take into account the office of the lawyer and the professional competence of the lawyer in the field of criminal law. An action under the Law on Lawyers provides for a sanction in the event of unjustified refusal of defence or representation of a party under an official obligation, i.e. as a serious disciplinary offence. We will undoubtedly support the proposed amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, as we want to prevent the possible emergence of an anti-constitutional situation when it is not possible in the country to provide compulsory defence to the accused of crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. As we know, this bill was introduced into the procedure when the amendment of the Law on Lawyers had not yet been in force. The Legal and Legal Service warns that now that the Law on Lawyers is in force, this matter is regulated and that it does not need to be regulated again. Yes, it may be true, but in this case we agree with the proposaler that this material is part of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Free Legal Aid Act, which will be discussed in the next item. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, while we believe that it is not the most important thing in which the law is regulated, it is more important that it is regulated well. But in view of the experience we have experienced in the consideration of the novel Law on Lawyers, when there was some kind of public extortion of the law and the coalition, we believe that it is better for this matter to be regulated in the proposed two laws. There may be a need for further corrections in the context of warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this bill so that there will be no unnecessary amendments to the Law on Lawyering in the future, with an excuse to ensure the legal security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the real interests will be completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today by a half-hour vote following the adjournment of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Free Legal Aid Act, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Aid at its 5th meeting, on 29 May as a mother's labour force. The procedure was shortened in accordance with the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 11 May. We were informed by the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. The representative of the applicant explained in his opening statement that this law had also been introduced in situations where the Law on Lawyers had not yet been in force and that the applicants had amended it precisely to comply with the Law on Lawyers and that this law would also give the Presidents of the Courts with a view to choosing lawyers offering free legal assistance in cases of free legal aid. The representative of the Government said that the matter under consideration was already governed by the Law on Lawyers. The Government considers that the proposed amendment is not necessary. The representative of the Council of State informed the Committee that the State Council or its Commission for State regulation does not support the law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented their written opinion and said that the proposed law was linked to other amendments proposed by amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which did not receive the support of the Committee, so that a legal void could arise if this law was adopted, as she said, as the question of representation of parties by the parties after the official duty would not be settled. In the debate, the opposition Member also expressed the view that free legal aid under official duty is correctly placed in the Free Legal Aid Act. The Committee discussed the amendments of the SDS Group and did not accept them. Nor did he adopt the whole text of the law or felt that the proposal was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Once again, Dr. Gorenak, on behalf of the proposer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'll only take five minutes if there's no attacks on the sentinel groups. Otherwise, I'll take 10 minutes. On behalf of the applicants, I can say the following - The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance has been put into effect by the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party when the Law on Lawyers has not yet been in force. By means of this law, we wanted to fill that situation or to help the Minister of Justice, who also claimed when the Law on Lawyers was amended that free legal aid could no longer be provided, nor for the perpetrators of the worst crimes which did not provide themselves with free legal aid. His words were quite sharp, quite severe, although in a few days later he denied himself when he counted all the numbers and told how many lawyers in individual courts were prepared to provide free legal aid. In some ways, he denied what he said at the time of the adoption of the Law on Lawyery. In order to help the Minister and not to induce him, we have introduced this law, but I stress that this law does not regulate the same text, in the same way as the matter regulated in the Law on Lawyerry. So mixing these two notions of duplicating, making a mistake, working a problem, is not true. The Law on Lawyers, which came into force at that time, is relatively clear. The Presidents of the Courts may designate lawyers who offer free legal assistance from the list of lawyers at regional level, if I simplify. The law before us, however, provides for the possibility for the Presidents of the Courts to appoint lawyers who represent on an official basis or who offer free legal assistance also from the list of lawyers at the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia. So it does not regulate the same matter, it does not introduce legal confusion and it will not cause any problems in further procedures, but it offers only broader opportunities and nothing else. We are therefore convinced that this law can be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr Boštjan Šklec, State Secretary, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u187	Good afternoon, Mr President. Messengers and Members of Parliament! As in the case of the Criminal Procedure Act, this is also the case in the case of the Law on free legal aid in the case of the time when the Law on Lawyers, i.e. the amendment of the Law on Lawyering proposed by the Government, has not yet entered into force because a constitutional and legal assessment was under way as to whether a referendum on this amendment was allowed. This novel has been fully satisfied and the constitutionally and legally correct way has settled the issue that we have today's proposal for regulation. I thank the representatives of the opposition for the assistance they provide to the minister, but they would offer more assistance if they did not request a referendum and then table an amendment that regulates the matter in substance in the same way as the amendment adopted in the National Assembly. The fact that, according to the applicant's assurances, the proposed novelties offer some broader opportunities for the Presidents of the Courts may even be true. However, the solutions contained in the current Law on Lawyering in the current novel are entirely appropriate, completely sufficient and, more importantly, absolutely clear. This has also been found by the Constitutional Court and therefore we are assessing in the Government that no supplementary regulation of this issue is necessary in the Free Legal Aid Act. In addition, one of the articles proposed here today proposes deleting a part of the text, which has become invalid by the introduction of the novel. For the sake of all this, we propose not to support this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, on behalf of the SD Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The amended Law on Lawyers, which entered into force on 9 May this year, already regulates this matter, which is proposed in the regulation by the proposed amendments to the law that we are considering today. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we consider the proposed amendment to the Law on free legal aid to be irrelevant. The proposal under consideration also refers to the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which we also reject and consider unnecessary. In this sense, therefore, the proposed Law amending the Law on free legal aid, as regards our Group of Members, is irrelevant. Hence, the timeliness of this law could save us all time and money. Yesterday, some opposition Members stressed that you repugnantly reject the word or adjective of the Babalin, the Babalin, that is, today in connection with this proposal to amend the Law on free legal aid for this act of the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not refer to it as that name; of course, we oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. As I said, I had no intention of calling back, but, very briefly, two explanations and nothing more. First of all, why we requested a referendum, as the Secretary of State says. I must say very clearly about this law that we are considering: the law was written at a time when the referendum initiative was still in the air. The Minister of Justice could have avoided this referendum if he had left Sturm's law in an honorable and fair manner, such as that of bringing to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from 20% to 70% lower legal service. However, the Minister overestimated otherwise, the Minister assessed differently and in the Law on Lawyers, I stress that in the work relating to this subject, the SDS Group did not oppose him and we supported this law, but this law also contained a gift for lawyers, which means that you will set your own prices and you will judge yourself. This was a fundamental reason for us to demand a constitutional review of this law. Once again, the law before us does not regulate the same matter. The law makes it possible for the Presidents of the Courts to determine lawyers who will provide free legal assistance. As far as the possible withdrawal of this marriage is concerned, I see no need to withdraw it. Why would they take him away? That's why you're in power, you have a coalition majority, and you're going to vote in your conscience, just like we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u193	Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished visitors! In the Group of Members, we really believe that, even in this proposal, changes in the law since its introduction have changed significantly, mentioned earlier, the Law on Lawyers or its amendment, which in Article 5, regulates the legal representation of parties in proceedings in cases of free legal aid, has been adopted. There were now also arguments that, in the implementation of the Law on Lawyers, the Minister had provided incorrect information. It would be difficult to assess their irregularity on its own, because I find that even the Constitutional Court has listened to these arguments, so there must be something on them if we live in a country where it is believed that the courts are the ones who know what is right and what is wrong. But if we believe that we are ourselves who know more than the courts, what is good and what is right, then we must probably ask ourselves about what other relations we have with this country, and I believe we can never be very pleased. By means of a proposal for a law, the applicant attempted to arrange for the provision of free legal assistance under an official obligation to designate, in cases where this cannot be ensured, the person empowered to provide these services from the legal registry of the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia, taking into account the seat of the Lawyer's Office. We believe that such a change is not necessary for the present Law on Lawyers to be satisfactorily regulated. We will probably agree, although this practice is short, that, after the current Law on the Lawyery of these things, they run smoother than they did before, but I do not want to go any further in the end to assess whether the previous Law on Lawyers was better or worse. However, we believe that the matter is now settled satisfactorily. It is true that the legislative process is going as well as that the National Assembly at this plenary session is also dealing with this amendment of the law which has been tabled, as it should have been, and it is true that the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted, at its 5th session on 29 May, a decision on the inappropriateness of the amendment proposal for further consideration due to the duplication of the same matter, and of course we can say more times that one of us thinks otherwise. I've already mentioned one reason, perhaps a wider worldview, that leads us to such a different opinion. The fact is that in the Group we really believe in the courts and the Constitutional Court at all, even after all, the Government, because it is also ours, so we will not support the content of the law. We will support the proposed decision of the parent working body and believe that free legal aid for citizens and citizens of Slovenia will not be reduced. In short, it must be as it is in the rule of law which Slovenia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u195	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members, distinguished visitors and visitors to the National Assembly! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on free legal aid. The consideration of amendments to the Free Legal Aid Act contains practically identical solutions as a novel of the Criminal Procedure Act or the aim of solving both novelties submitted by the same proposer is to extend the possibility of competent authorities to choose advocates also from the lawyer's directory. As Members of the DeSUS have already said at the previous point, we do not support such a solution. The reasons for rejection are identical, namely that such a solution has already been contained in the Law on Lawyers from the adoption of the last novel, which is why such duplication from a legal and, above all, constitutional point of view is totally inappropriate and non-systematic. We have also expressed the view that, from an organisational point of view, it is more appropriate for this matter to be governed by the Law on Lawyers. In view of this and in agreement with the regulation in force now, the proposed amendment to the Law on free legal assistance to Members of the DeSUS will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u197	Respectable. The Law on free legal aid defines the concept and importance of free legal aid, lays down the beneficiaries of such legal aid, the conditions for its allocation, the form of legal aid and the extent of the authorisation of the person empowered to provide free legal aid services, the procedure for granting free legal aid and the competent authorities, the question of changing circumstances and returning unduly received free legal aid, its financing and the way in which the services provided for in the grant of free legal aid are paid, the return from this address of the funds received, the supervision and records of the implementation of the law and the free legal assistance provided in cross-border disputes. The proposed amendment to the Free Legal Aid Act is substantively linked to the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. The amendment amends or complements the regulation of the provision of free legal aid services by extending the possibility of offering free legal aid services under an official obligation, the competent authority for free assistance, provided that it is not possible to provide a free legal aid service, the person shall be appointed from the legal registry of the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia, taking into account the establishment of the legal office. In these latter cases, the designation of the person empowered to offer free legal aid from the legal registry of the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia shall be taken into account by the office of the lawyer. By prejudice to the Law on Lawyers, the deletion of the text from the list of lawyers is provided for in the 10th indent of Article 6(2). Article 5 of this Act lays down sanctions in the event of an unjustified refusal to provide free legal aid services as a serious disciplinary offence. We will support the amendment of the Law on free legal aid in the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law governs the provision of free legal aid services in such a way that, where the service cannot be provided, the person empowered to provide such services shall be determined from the legal registry of the Lawyers' Chamber of Slovenia, taking into account the seat of the Lawyer's Office. Matter is regulated in the Law on Lawyers, but in a slightly different way. We know that this bill came about when the application of the Law on Lawyers was postponed in the Constitutional Court's judgment. The applicants want to prove that they do not hold the Minister of Justice's claim, that lawyers from the lists of providers of free legal aid are mass-exposed and that this matter can be settled without amending the Law on Lawyers. It is somewhat embarrassing that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly draws attention to a double regulation by adopting this proposal. However, in view of the experience with the bar and their agreed listings for the provision of free legal aid, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that this is less problematic than the fact that some principles or the desire to make as much as possible for lawyers would not guarantee legal certainty. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it seems important to us that quality legal aid comes to those who have low incomes, even in these times of crisis, when such people are increasing. We can't, we can't interfere with the right to quality legal protection, and not at all with the honor of lawyers, who, as far as I know, have no need to be afraid for the future. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on free legal aid, also in order not to see the Law on Lawyers being amended again in the future, in order to regulate the provision of free legal aid, and in fact, the coalition and the legal professions will deal with tariffs and so forth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Well-known for the third time, especially the well-known visitors and visitors on the balcony, on my behalf and on behalf of the LDS Club! The draft law amending the Law on free legal aid, which is currently under consideration, will not be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. There are two reasons for that. Although the content of the law is not disputed, in the Republic of Slovenia legal aid is one of the fundamental norms and values of our rule of law, as elsewhere in the developed world. However, the issue covered by this law has already been settled. The exact same content is appropriate and equally regulated in the Law on Lawyers. While we appreciate the efforts of the opposition and its exemplary concern for the rule of law at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I would like to remind colleagues from the SDS that we already have a law governing the issue of free legal aid and that there is therefore no need for any matter to be regulated simultaneously in two laws. In fact, this kind of regulation of individual things in different laws brings confusion and disorder, which I suppose everyone in this House would like to avoid. As the issue of free legal aid has already been regulated in the aforementioned Law on Lawyers, the negative opinion on the proposal for a law amending the Law on free legal assistance has been given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly, the Bar Association, the Ministry of Justice and, last but not least, by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly. Since the bill's proponents have not been able to convince me, even once in the entire debate on this amendment of the law, with their arguments from the relevant institutions and experts in the field of law, it is more than obvious that the bill does not deserve support. For these reasons, MEPs at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will vote against the proposal for a law amending the Law on free legal aid, as we have already said, and others have also said that for this competent institution, this area has already been regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th point. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Majdi Potrat for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me read the report. The Committee considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, submitted by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, at its 6th meeting on 28 May 2009. He obtained an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and from a legislative and technical point of view, and commented on the 10 articles, 1 to 11, with the exception of Article 3. The Committee also received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 4 May 2009. In this opinion, the Government cites the reasons why it does not support the proposed solutions and considers that the proposal for a law is not appropriate for further consideration. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and in its opinion stated that it does not support the law because it is a problem of understanding the importance of cultural heritage and therefore gives the proposal of law priority to private interest over public interest. He considers inheritance a commodity, which is not a public interest, and therefore cannot be the interest of the legislator. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Articles 4, 7, 8 and 10 were tabled within the time limit. Since they were not tabled in accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, as the proposer could not also propose amendments, it was proposed that these amendments should be adopted by the Committee as their own, but that they became irrelevant due to the decision taken on the inadequacy of the law for further consideration. Representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Culture, the Legal and Legislative Services and the Council of the State participated in the work of the Committee. On behalf of the applicants, the law was further clarified by Daniel Krivec. He stressed that the aim of the proposed law was to protect cultural heritage items to the extent that it would further encourage interest in them. It would also be appropriate to place in legislation others that we cannot consider to be a find. Private museums and collectors should be given the opportunity to sign a contract with the Ministry and thus to co-finance the maintenance of the collection, and the country should be entitled to a preliminary right. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, an additional explanation was provided for the opinion of the Government. It was submitted by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. They considered that the proposed law undermined the concept of the protection of archaeological remnants and assumed that it was possible to acquire ownership of archaeological finds, regardless of where they came from. The solutions offered stem from a misinterpretation of the importance of cultural heritage resulting from the advantage given by the proposal to the private interest in the public. The proposal for a law totally without reason and without undue interference with the concept of granting powers to perform a state museum service by fully equalising this service at state and other museums. Having regard to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee was invited to first discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposed law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on this proposal for a decision, a number of other initiatives were taken by Members and Members, including the initiative to extend the abolition from one to two years and to regulate and adopt certain sub-legislative acts. It results in both decisions adopted by the Committee. By nine votes in favour and four against, the Committee then adopted a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of cultural heritage was not appropriate for further consideration and such a decision was also proposed by the Committee for adoption by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivec's representative of the law's proposal for an introductory presentation of his position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u205	Dear Vice President. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Cultural Heritage Act is necessary due to the inadequacy and unprepared appropriate guidance and sub-laws on the issue of collection from World War I to World War II. In Slovenia there are over 3,000 more serious and larger collectors who have items for the collection subject, which are at least partially covered by the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. In some ways, though, the collector is virtually every human being. Due to the specific position in Slovenia, which represents a strategic point, world powers have often fought in this area. The wars had a profound effect on this area and on the course of history. On the other hand, the amount of collection items which is very large in this area. We can say that most of the collectors of military and military remains are. In Slovenia there are currently over 40 private museums of different status, which are open to the public. We can conclude that in the hands of collectors in Slovenia there are about 2 million items of collection value that concern the protection of cultural heritage. Collectors are one of the most important elements in maintaining a movable heritage, saving objects that would otherwise be neglected, unrecognizable and subject to decay. By their operation and presence in society they have created awareness of the value of objects of collection. Collectors are therefore not important as keepers of objects, but also as designers of the knowledge of the past and are in a way an extension of museums. Collectors also ensure that items are preserved which, due to their insignificance and marginal impact on the course of history, are usually lost from collections of large museums. Finally, collectors who present their collections in a museum exhibition mode are important tourist acquisitions of the place. As a rule, private museums open in places where the state museum network does not reach. We have about 30 private museums in Posoč and about 20 museums with military theme elsewhere in Slovenia. It is the collectors and their collections who can present the basis for the development of historical and cultural tourism. Collectors acquire objects of their collection mainly from their surroundings. The search for objects begins first in your own house, continues in the immediate and then further surroundings. Gifts, purchases, exchanges, and the search for items in Posoča have so far been a legal and legitimate way to acquire objects of collection. The law now challenges property rights to holders of items that collect findings in water, land or on the surface, regardless of when they were found. It can compare the money they found 300 years ago, and since then it has legally and legitimately changed owners, and now it is the property of the country. It's similar to the items they found in the combat area that have so far been considered garbage. By law, all of this is now state-owned, although no one objected to new ownership at the time of the acquisition of the items. All items held by collectors must remain their property, with the exception of items proven to originate from illegal and criminal transactions. The problem of ownership is also evident in some cases that will only become hot in time, in the case of the removal of deposits of non-useable items and the problems of other rehabilitations that are, say, still in use, are by definition owned by the State. If the objects threaten the environment and pose a threat to it, they will have to be treated differently. It makes sense to let a wider circle of people into this circle, not just archaeologists. Restricting any method of obtaining items could have a fatal impact on the growth of collections, thereby opening museums or restoring existing museums. The new law on the protection of cultural heritage restricts almost all means of acquiring objects, thus practically stopping collection and all the good that collection brings. The present law is also incomprehensible to anyone who interferes in space. The finding of each remnant of the war, which is previously an exception in Sosoča, will stop activities with legally fixed seven days and the possibility of renewal for a further seven days. This is more than funny, and it can cause great losses to people. In marriage, it is essential to separate the concept of archaeological discovery and archaeological remnant. The archeological finding marks an object that does not carry an important cultural-historic message and is not relevant to historical knowledge. These are, as a rule, objects from younger historical periods that do not represent rareness and specialities because of their abundance. As a rule, archaeological findings are located in a predictable area and are also limited to the location. Archaeological findings are subject to milder restrictions and may be sought by certified search engines of the rest. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are therefore introducing a new Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the legislative process, which brings about changes in the area of collection. With regard to the search for objects, a solution is proposed that would make it possible in law to collect and record archaeological findings and findings of World War I and II, which is a major issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor as a representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dearly-respected present, and above all the proponents of this law! We accepted it in the previous term, and there was no debate at this point. I can see that a scratch or life brought different facts. You don't like the law anymore, but, as has been said, Mr Proposer, a collector can really be any person who collects archaeological remains, but archaeological remains are not any kind of find, but they are public good, state property and they need to be regulated. Collectors, too, should not be confined to this law, only their future operation should be conducted in a transparent manner. The Government opposes the proposal of the law of the Group of Members because it undermines the basic concept of the protection of archaeological remnants and also the findings on which the system of protection is based. Its implementation would threaten the key objectives, as well as the main solutions of the ZVKD. ZVKD may be really controversial, we will consider it where it is, but at this point it protects the public good as state property and finding which cannot be, in particular, the subject of trade. We believe that the applicants followed mainly the interests of collectors and also of traders with cultural heritage and not so much public interest or public benefit. Such an intervention in the public interest is contrary to the provisions of Article 5 of the Constitution and also to the international treaties of which the Republic of Slovenia is also a signatory. When the applicants argue that their solutions will contribute to an interest in cultural heritage, I can say yes, but not in terms of public interest, but rather in the interest of heritage as goods rather than that exchange product. I can only add to this that the excessive increase in interest in collecting and heritage can be a plus, but it can also lead to greater demand for this wealth and, as a result, more desire for profits and trade, which must certainly not be the interest of the legislator. It has already been said that we have advocated the law by destroying the concept of the protection of archaeological remains and findings, which also stems from the assumption that it is possible to acquire ownership of archaeological finds regardless of where they come from. This means that, for example, the concrete finding that the custodian has may be obtained unlawfully from archaeological remains and sites in territory outside the Republic of Slovenia, but that the applicants do not consider him to be the owner of the archaeological find. In this regard, such a custodian is, of course, equivalent to a custodian who has a finding arising from legal transactions, it is said from legal trade, inheritance, exchange between legal owners and so on. This is simply a misunderstanding of the importance of cultural heritage. By doing so, we do not want to underestimate the value of many collectors, as well as private or private museums, which are certainly beneficial, but we insist on the principle of public good and transparent business on archaeological finds, which, as I say, all that is in the country is of national public interest. As has already been said before, the bill would without any need also affect the concept of the granting of powers to perform a state museum service because it would even the museum service in state and other museums, and if such a proposed solution were to be implemented, it would maintain the status of that mismatch between the establishment and financing of municipal museums, or extend this situation to museums which, as you know, would later gain the status of so-called mandated museums. In short, it would be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u209	It's more fair to see things go differently. [[...]] Thank you very much, and so do you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I'm breaking this agenda. At the same time, the meeting of the National Assembly; you have been informed of this before; due to the urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which will begin or start at 3 p.m. This agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly will continue at 4:45 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u211	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're still waiting for the briefing. We'll let you know whether we can proceed immediately or wait until 5 p.m. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u212	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We'll continue the meeting at 5 p.m. At this point it is not yet over, but I have received a hint that by 5 p.m. the committee will be closed and that we will be able to continue the meeting. Thank you. It's 5:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u213	Continue with the adjourned session and interrupt 15. It's a day's work. This item is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Alexander Zorn has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. All due respect. The new Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, aimed at protecting and protecting cultural heritage, was adopted in the previous mandate. It is not possible to object to its basic and general provisions. It is also not possible to object to all the arguments made by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, but the matters for which we have tabled amendments are in detail. The details are such that they doubted all collectors, amateurs - I can call it cultural heritage, especially in Soča. For, as we know, Slovenia is a country where many armies have gone through and left behind many weapons and other objects. And with the new law, we question the lovemaking of these objects. We are jeopardising him because there have been no sub-laws that would define more precisely what belongs to the country, what belongs to the owner, who really has the pre-emptive right and what the state can support. Let me tell you what's simple and simple. If a farmer in Goriška plows the field and out prioritizes the end of an explosive grenade, a bayonet, a helmet, or an old pot, forgive those who have no enormous national value, but are important to the collector, it will avoid them because of the new law. For as soon as he finds it, the state can come, fence that end of the field, declare it a founding of national importance, and, of course, the farmer will be at his work, especially if we count the time of the commission to decide such things. And the other side of the medal is like this. Many collectors have at home a variety of old objects from World War I, carefully oiled, exhibited, but they are such that no national museum would take them because they are not of such value to them. That collector too will be afraid for his collection, for the country can seize it. What's gonna happen? Either he's hiding it or he's selling it immediately. That is why we have proposed that the legislator or the appropriate ministry - the minister - has already escaped us - prepare the sub-legislative acts to regulate this. When I particularly strongly advised them with a similar case, as I have just said, they reminded me of this, sorry to be afraid of Mr Jelinčič because he is an inflamed collector, and that somehow state things will have to be protected. So you know that's an anecdotic, too. There's something else you need to say. The opinion on the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, given by the Council of State and Mr Zoltan Jan, states that the proponents are turning the custodian into the owner in a way that is still strong, strong in the past world and something that I would call it shameful. That's not true. Private collection is a relation to history. In many cases, museums are created in the same way in the foundation, so it needs to be preserved. The law must also be amended and we want it to remain suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The text is by Franco Juri, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Group of Members, we really believe that, after the debate that took place on the parental committee and in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, we have a clear picture and a clear picture of the traps involved in the amendments that have been tabled. Therefore, the Group of Members will not really support this law. One of the reasons for our position is the recognition that the law submitted follows, in particular, the interests of private collectors and traders of cultural heritage, not the public interest or public benefit, as set out in Article 5 of the Constitution, in international treaties of which the Republic of Slovenia is also a member. Above all, we are surprised to see that the importance of collectors is proved by the number of 3,000 individual collectors. As we know, this concept is very loose. As part of the collection, we find collectors of all possible objects, so that the separation between those of some monumental, cultural significance and others is very difficult. Above all, we are concerned about the fact that the proposed law would undermine the basic concept of the protection of archaeological remains and archaeological findings on which the protection system is based and its enforcement would endanger the purpose, objectives and main solutions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Group will not be in favour of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word is given by Vasj Klavor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u218	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. It is no coincidence that Mr Krivec came forward today at this point. It is no coincidence that Mr Zorn has also called. It's probably not a coincidence that I'm going to give my opinion. But we all come from a certain area, from an area we call the Sosocje. Our Primorska was an area of the great exodus of the Slovenian population during the first world war, an area of great battles, all of which left its mark on this population and on this earth. I support the law adopted in the previous term - the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. However, to be honest, I never imagined that there would be any specific thing, such as gathering the rest of the First World War conflict situation of this law. This is really something that we meet with, and in this area I think that because of all of our honest collectors who offer both our people and our foreigners, from Bovec to Crassus many beautiful collections. These are not some people who are just collecting something but do not know what; if they happen to find, as I said on the committee, the site, as it happened the other day at the Tolmin Museum, including the bronze axe they found, was the second day, and two large museums, such as the Goriski Museum, can thank these collectors for enriching their collections. We have a really nice cultural heritage in this area from this time, but of course it takes registration, including supervision, reporting, everything that belongs to a regulated country and administration. Sadly, when we adopted marriage, the museums may not have been so careful, even though they knew what they were dealing with, they were not so careful, but we must do something. I think that's the thing I suggested last time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u219	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u220	On the board, we have to solve this in our own way. [[...]] Let us not allow or take away from these people what they have been collecting for the rest of our lives. It may also remind them of their grandfathers, their fathers who were standing there or lying there somewhere. Let's leave it to them, but let's work it out. I was wondering how I could. I propose that we amend this law on cultural heritage in such a way as to legally allow the adoption of a sub-law that will also regulate this matter in this area, so that we are all satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word is given by Zmago Jelinčič noble on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u222	Mr President, we will vote in favour of this in our Group of Members in our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! The law proposed I will support, and also in the Slovenian National Party, despite the fact that it regulates only one segment: the segment of World War I and II. I'm sure there's more to it than that. The fact is that the current law and, above all, the Minister, by interpreting this law, is actually criminalising all collectors in Slovenia. By calling the abolitionist, she actually said that all collectors are thieves, thieves, crooks, criminals, because aboriginality means absolved of a crime. And because people were afraid that they would not be closed, that in those messages they were sending around from the ministry, it was even written that anyone who knew about a collector would have to report that person, otherwise he would be punished. It's a terrible thing for the 21st century. No wonder a huge number of fantastic collections went abroad. I know about eight fantastic numismatic collections that will never be able to "screw" our National Museum. Never. It went out. It was for sale because there's no limit out there. He's dealing with these things outside. If you don't believe me, I have a few months old catalogues from Germany, Munich, from the auction house where they sold this archaeological heritage of the whole world. Not a problem Egypt, Greece, Rome, Tavrishki. It's all for sale. And there's nothing to say where anyone got -- it says "private property," in German "private besitz". And the matter is clear. The country does not implement nationalisation, what is happening or what all Slovenian collectors fear will happen. The fact is that the statement made by Mrs Shirca earlier that the archaeological remains are state property is a little funny. Are the archaeological remains of Egypt Slovenian state property? It's a little funny. The archaeological remains, say, of the Roman Empire with Sicily are Slovenian, state property? A little funny, too. And yet this is happening. Because at the Collecta collection meeting, two of the biggest antique merchants, Numismatics, Richter from Vienna, could have just said that they had run a dog from the Ministry of Culture, Inspector Matič and Mr Gaspari, who once collected a cultural heritage from Slovenia alone and put it into money. First, they tried to confiscate all the Roman money. As the scandal began to grow, this level was reduced to just hitting him with 20,000 euros in fines. Later, the gentleman put it all together and said, "It's inconceivable that something like this is going to happen in Europe!" And he's gone. It should be known that the largest museums were made from collection collections. The biggest museums in the world! This national museum, once called Rudolfinium, was also made up of collections of private individuals from donations collected by private individuals. After all, if you go to see, some Jelinčič, who the minister spits at, is a "shankal" to this museum of 150 thousand German marks. All I got was a thank you paper, that's all. Of course, some former ministers, as well as the current ones, would rather crash because I love Slovenian history. And some people set me up with all kinds of crap, and it turned out they weren't. I think so! [[...]] What a country we are! Some seem to want to make Slovenia a country of gypsies, fools, primitives. Instead of encouraging all these matters, of course we sanction them. But where we should sanction, oh, we don't do that. Another serious issue is this foolish implementation of the law - museums in Slovenia no longer receive any goods. Because every collector is afraid, for according to that instruction, museums must also report to anyone who has a case, even if it brings it as a gift to the museum. And that's idiotism! But I will absolutely support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u226	Dear Members and Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is as follows. When we talk about the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we are talking about the constitutional category. For cultural heritage is a constitutional category and under the Constitution the State is in charge. It is true that there are problems in this area. It is true that legislation in this area is currently not the best. It is true that there is a conflict in this area between public and private interest. It is true that the Ministry of Culture has not taken steps to resolve this issue. It is also true that the proposal we are considering today does not solve matters systematically, as should be the case. The proposal is deficient, insufficiently reasoned, and insufficiently crafty enough to be supported in such a way. Since we have a strong respect for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in this case has comments on almost all of the articles of the bill, we will therefore not support this proposal. This is a very sensitive and wide-ranging area relating to national wealth, and we believe that the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage should be changed systematically and through a thorough approach. However, we expect those responsible for this area to take this issue seriously. We therefore join many calls to Minister Majdi Širca to take the Ministry of Culture seriously to work and prepare amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and all necessary sub-laws. We cannot accept the constant complaining that work is too little and too little time. People on the ground have serious problems with the subject and you have a duty to solve them. Finally, I would just like to add that we support the conclusions of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, which proposes to the Ministry of Culture to extend the abolition, and we clearly support the second decision that the Ministry proposes to draw up and adopt appropriate solutions to regulate archaeological findings and others from the First World War in Posoč. As I mentioned earlier, we expect more from the Ministry of Culture than is proposed in these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We do not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Cultural Heritage Act in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, so we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Our opposition to the proposed changes can be justified on several grounds. The legal novelty has been redefined and completely inappropriate in changing the relationship between the inventor, the custodian and the owner, to the detriment of public interest or public benefit. In our view, the public interest in the novel proposal is a very generalised right to private property. Cultural heritage as a national wealth is, in our view, still a public interest and must be followed by legislation. As can be seen from the content of the legal novel, the proposed amendment is mainly in the opposite direction from the principles that were established in only a year and a half of the law in force and which interfere with the very basis of ownership and thus relax control and reduce the possibility of the State acting on the consequences of illegal practices. The bill breaks the concept of protection. It is based on the assumption that ownership of inventions can be acquired regardless of origin. Simply put, a concrete finding could be obtained unlawfully and the applicants of such a finder are considered to be the owner of an archaeological find and thus are comparing it with a legitimate owner. This may also make it difficult to prevent illegal search or to carry out searches. This would legalize the search for clues and allow sanctioning at a time when such an item would be held by a particular person. This could encourage the departure of objects abroad, which probably none of us want. The novel with changes without any real reason also interferes with the concept of granting powers to abolish the state museum service, since it equates this service to state and other museums. This would preserve the situation regarding the mismatch between the establishment and financing of municipal museums. More. This situation would also be extended to museums, which, as stipulated in the law, this year and later gain the status of authorized museums. In our view, the reasons for objecting to the changes in the law are sufficient. The law may need to be amended or improved, and we therefore agree with the decision of the Committee proposing to the Ministry to prepare and adopt appropriate solutions and to regulate archaeological findings and others from World War I in Soča as soon as possible. However, we cannot accept any changes, nor do we understand any new circumstances that would arise at the time of the adoption of the law, which does not lead to an improvement of the legal provisions, to the contrary, because they undermine the fundamental concept of the protection of cultural heritage and public interest and try to bring about the primacy of private interest over public interest without any serious analysis and arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats will support the decision of the Committee on Culture that the proposed amendment of the law is not suitable for further consideration. We believe that its fundamental purpose is to give priority to private interest over public interest. The cultural heritage of being a witness to the greatness of the nation formed through thousands of years of co-existence and an important contribution to raising national self-confidence. The findings of World War I and II, whose protection is reduced by the text presented, are an important contribution to the knowledge of that part of national history, which has given crucial importance to social policy changes in the 1990s. That is why it is necessary to be aware of the complexity and sensitivity of dealing with the heritage of this time. Lawmakers have drawn up an incomplete and under-conceived proposal, not least to prove the scope of the Government's comments and the Legal and Legislative Service, which have a total of 9 pages. Applicants would automatically turn cultural heritage keepers into owners, even if there is no legal basis and does not comply with the principles of public interest protection. The proposal to amend the obligation of an authorised museum is also contested, which, if the public service is terminated, must transfer to another authorised museum all the cultural heritage it has acquired on the basis of the mandate. The proposal would be amended to allow the museum, which would have ceased, to decide for itself, if at all, that part of the inheritance would have been handed over. In this way, we would open up the possibility of trading in an inheritance supported by the State by public resources. With other proposals for amendments, applicants facilitate trade in heritage, redefine the basic concepts of sectoral legislation and thus cause terminology and conceptual confusion, interfere with the content of the pre-purchase right of a collection without a successor, and deeply interfere with the protection of the cultural heritage of the first and second world wars. The debate on the Committee has shown some confusion in the existing law regarding the discovery of items of World War I and II. At this point, I would like to point out that the Group of Social Democrats greatly appreciates the contribution of all those private collectors who, as collectors, have made provision for the preservation of many objects of the cultural heritage of the first and second world wars, which would, without their enthusiasm, remain an undiscovered part of the nation's history, which would forever be wrapped up in the vagaries of mystery. The debate on the parental committee has shown that the applicants are also aware of the shortcomings of the text they have tabled, but at the same time the opinion has prevailed that the law in force is not complete. Given that we are discussing today, for the second time in six months, a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, and in view of the many requirements for assessing the constitutionality of this law, we expect the Ministry of Culture to actively address the comprehensive revisions of this law, including or, in particular, taking into account the contribution of collectors to the preservation of cultural heritage. Finally, let me reiterate that the Group of Social Democrats will support the decision of the Committee on Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have received the initiative to proceed with the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Given that we have already suspended the meeting for two hours today, because of the urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I have decided to ask you or the leaders of the groups of Members if anyone opposes such a proposal in order to proceed immediately with the vote. Is there a parliamentary group that opposes this proposal? I guess not. We are continuing the meeting and are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Insurance Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. You want an explanation of the voice? Wait a minute, wait a minute. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the first amendment and others are very important for the basic intent of the law, which we have also tabled, I would like to state that, of course, this law has made the collection of powers for the Mutual Insurance Society much or much worse. We know why. Because it is in the past and there is still manipulation, abuse, when a handful of regional directors make practical decisions on everything in the congregation, on behalf of members, of course. With the full parliamentary procedure, the text of the motioners was slightly corrected. I must say that some of the solutions that we agree with are also in place. However, this amendment, for which I ask the support of the coalition, provides that the word "may" be deleted so that the mandate can be collected only for each assembly alone, but not for each assembly individually, because if this "may" remain, the divorce is a complex purpose and proposal. I believe that this will increase transparency, predictability, and I also ask for support. Similarly, there are other amendments. It is that all the powers gathered in contravention of these provisions are null and void, which means that voting rights cannot be respected as well. I believe that this can be an important means of finalising this legal text and thus fully agreeing on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? On behalf of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, Dr. Luke Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u234	Thank you very much. This amendment, although short, has an important effect on the law, we have examined it and considered it and found that it has positive consequences on the one hand, because it means greater strictness in the way of collecting powers, but on the other hand it may also constitute an unnecessary complexity of certain bureaucracy in the collection process, and ultimately may also constitute a certain advantage for larger organisations, such as economic enterprises, which make it easier to access members of the Mutual and, of course, to such powers. Notwithstanding this fear and in view of the expectation that a comprehensive law on the issue of the Mutual Insurance Service will be proposed in the short term, we will not oppose the Social Democrats of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 15. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Act, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 6. 2009 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I would like Likar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the amendment to Article 3, which prevents banks, recipients of different forms of State aid, from lending or reprogramming all types of loans before or after their maturity, if these loans are intended to buy out companies by administrations or related persons. In our opinion, such transactions do not help to improve the economic situation, which is the main purpose of the State's action in the area of the financial system. Even the other way around. Most of these loans have proved to be harmful as the funds they create are earmarked for the repayment of managers' loans. So companies are paying themselves off. As a result, the crowds of unemployed people who, instead of creating added value, become recipients of social assistance, which I do not think is in their interest. That is why we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u238	In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment. We will support it because there is a possibility in the law that loans, so-called management or management loans, are being renewed by Taiwanese credits, whatever we call them. We are very much against this, and because this amendment allows, so it prohibits actually renewing management loans, we will support this amendment. It is abnormal that Slovenian policy does not take responsibility for what has happened, what has happened, and that it does not truly address this issue in the Slovenian economy, so Slovenian tycoons, so that in the future such and similar matters would no longer happen. For this reason, we will only support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Before we move to a decision on the amendment to Article 4, I would ask Members and Members to silence their mobile phones; there is a special function for this. I'd really like you to keep your phones down, because that's what bothers the congregation. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u240	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment and appeal to the others to support it. This is an amendment which deletes Article 4 of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance. That means we don't introduce the fiscal world. I have already said in the debate, and I would like to reiterate my vote that I appreciate that Banka Slovenije, UMAR and the other institutions available at various ministries, in particular the Ministry of Finance, are sufficient to be used, also invited by independent experts, if necessary, and that, on this basis, it is also up to policy in the future. I think that this is also a responsible attitude towards those who are in government services to take responsibility for their own actions. I firmly believe that this will be just one more in the crowd of new bodies that do not have much responsibility for themselves, unfortunately not a large contribution, but certainly cause additional costs and unnecessary spending of public money. That is why I will support this amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Let me correct, this is an amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 4. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I would like Likar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u242	Thank you for saying that again. We will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to delete Article 4 because we believe that the establishment of new bodies, such as the Council, is unnecessary during the general economic crisis and, above all, cost-effective. As has been said in the debate, these tasks, which are foreseen by the Fiscal Council, can already be organised in existing services such as Banka Slovenije, UMAR and various other professional services. We believe that if the Government wants to establish a professional council or advisory body, it can do so at any time, and there is no need for such a world to be established by law. We will therefore vote in favour of the deletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek, in his own name, explained the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I will also vote for this article to be deleted because, for the first time, in the way that the Government wants to set up a fiscal council, this will not be an independent body for an independent assessment of public financial policy. The point is that university professors use copyright contracts to bind and support the government. In order for the Government to do so, however, she wrote some arguments, otherwise true, she was willing to sacrifice herself, saying that the short-term focus on the fulfillment of the pre-election promises and the submission to interested groups was also the cause. Rather, they say that one of the arguments is that the elected government does not lead an optimal public financial policy. That's not perception, that's reality. If there is still such a desire to establish public authorities, it does not justify the Government, even if it has written such arguments, namely, it sees only the need for a valve with which state funding would flow through public finances in other ways. You have enough organs. It was necessary to have the courage and seriousness and responsibility to manage public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the submitted amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for Loan Obligations leased by the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development at the European Investment Bank for the financing of investments that promote sustainable development under the urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members, 74, against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members, 74, against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 11th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The law on criminal proceedings and the law on free legal assistance, specifically this time the law on criminal proceedings or its amendment, are directly linked to the law on legal representation, both at the time of the creation of this law and at the time when this law was linked to the referendum initiative in the Constitutional Court’s judgment. According to Minister Zalar's assurances in March or April, the law on lawyering should be the one to resolve the area of free legal aid and representation under official responsibility. And the Law of Lawyers brought something completely different. In view of this work, we in the Group of Members fully agreed, and we did not have any problems with these. However, the law of that time also brought what we did not agree with in the parliamentary group. This, however, is the determination of legal tariffs in the Chamber of Lawyers with the consent of the Minister and, of course, disciplinary procedures within the competence of the lawyers themselves. Since we then assessed that the fulfillment of a pre-election promise was also a matter of meeting the agreement between Minister Zalar and the lawyers, the agreement, to say publicly, was more of a meaning: "I, you, me," would have said before 1990, "I, you to me". In fact, this arrangement was clear. The Minister granted them the right to higher tariffs and they said, or to set tariffs by the Chamber of Lawyers, and the lawyers said that they would not temporarily withdraw from the so-called list of representations under official responsibility. At a time when the law was in constitutional judgment or referendum, we have written a law on amendments and additions to the penal law that we are considering today. And what did this one bring? It has provided a significantly broader opportunity for the Presidents of the Courts. The Presidents of the courts no longer limit the so-called courts to shorten, regional lists or lists of lawyers by area, but give the Presidents of the courts the right to determine lawyers from the list of lawyers at the Bar. So this law is now complementing the law in force on lawyering, and of course I invite you to support our law, or press the counter button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on free legal aid, within the framework of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on free legal aid is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would suggest to my fellow Members and Members that they support this law. In the debates, both on the committee and today, we have seen that the previous law is largely inappropriate. And it was not clear from the interpretation of the minister, who was defending a public good, to understand what she meant. When we talk about public interest, we also need to talk about the public interest that local communities have and any smaller units within this country. And when we talk about museums having to pass [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u249	May I have peace in the hall? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u250	We forget that most of the smaller museums are also co-financed by local communities, which, after this explanation, when they lose jurisdiction, would have to transfer all their collections to a higher venue, a higher museum. [[...]] On the other hand, this law, which has now entered into force, declares the entire northern Primorska and, above all, the Court of Archaeology. This law has forgotten that the rest of World War I in this area is still huge. And according to the explanation given to her in this marriage, each finding is an archaeological find. This means that each item in World War I is treated under this law as an archaeological find, which causes great problems in the space. And so it would be possible, through the amendment of this law, for such an anomaly, which will primarily cause people who will face it, great burdens, great problems, to solve it in some way. I would expect that, through the debate - both on the Committee and in the second reading - we could achieve the right solutions, but clearly there is no willingness in this direction. Even by giving the possibility of an abolition in the law, we are somehow criminalising all the activity that has so far been carried out in this area. It is necessary to know, however, that no country and no museum has established the rest of the first world war in terms of some historical remains and historical facts, but this was mainly the initiative of private collectors-institutions, local communities, who in this way also this historical period, which was somehow neglected in our books and in our heads, has put him in a public place, given him some historic place in this space. Now we are criminalizing this matter in some way and putting all these people in some subordination. I therefore propose that we all support this law together and thus allow for some normal implementation of this activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u252	Nicely greeted. If there had not been a decision by the committee saying that the abolition was being extended and appropriate acts were to be drawn up, of course, I would have voted in favour of this bill, but I am sure that the matter should be settled. I am sorry that there is not yet a deadline in this decision for the Ministry in which this sub-law should be drawn up. In Goriška, as has already been said, there are many of these objects. And these collectors were the ones who preserved this heritage. It went hugely to Italy, the chest and so on, not just these military objects. I've got a grenade in my basement myself. Where you dig the foundation for a house, there are objects just there. I think that this matter needs to be settled, that these people need to be helped, these are the experts who collect these things, they have real little museums. If the state asked them to bring these items to the Gorgeous or Kobaric Museum now, then we couldn't get into the building, that's all. They protect these items at fairs and at meetings in Šempetr near Novi Gorica, these meetings are very visited and very controlled by experts, police, museums and so on. They themselves have created some sort of order that needs to be put into the legal order and then I hope that this matter will be appropriate. So I will vote against this proposal by expecting a quick solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 34. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the seventh session of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much and very much.
