ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem and Mr Anton Anderlič cannot attend today's meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to complete the explanation of the proposal for the final account. Mrs Helena Kamnar, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The final budget account shows a picture in 2007. The 2007 budget was adopted in 2005. The budget changes were in place at the end of 2006 and a budget balance was adopted in mid-2007. In fact, the balance of the budget did not bring major corrections, but two key ones. One that changed the status of the Railway Agency and the other that brought the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Otherwise, most of the budgetary purposes and revenues remained unchanged. Macro-economic movements were significantly different from those planned in 2007 and mainly deviated in a positive direction. Let me only mention three essential elements. The growth of gross domestic product was higher than planned in the preparation of the 2.1 percentage point budget. Exports were higher than planned in the preparation of the budget for 4 percentage points and inflation was moving significantly at a higher level than planned, which is not positive in terms of macroeconomic terms, but very positive in terms of budget or budget revenues. Inflation was 3.6% in 2007, while it was planned in the preparation of the budget 2.1%. Realisation of revenues was higher than planned for 35 million, mainly at the expense of value added tax, about 100 million at the expense of corporate income tax, about 70 million. The funds we have obtained from the European budget have been more than planned for a good 60%. According to the Court of Auditors, the revenues of the State budget are shown too low and the opinion explains how they should be shown. The realisation of expenditure was lower than planned for 386 million or according to the current budget, which also includes European budget appropriations and resources to a different extent than the one adopted, which is for 875 million. The realisation was lower in virtually all expenditure categories, but it was lower in terms of investment expenditure and investment transfers. The Court of Auditors found that the expenditure shown in the final accounts submitted did not show any real situation and that these expenditure was 46 million higher, which, of course, in the Court of Auditors’ view and in the audit report submitted, provided for a different budget balance. The balance between income and expenditure amounted to 37 million after the final bill, which is before you, which is for a good 420 million over the projected deficit, which was planned to amount to just over 300 million. As I have already said, in the Court of Auditors' view, this balance is not properly reported and should amount to 9 million in negative terms, which means 9 million deficits. It is also appropriate to change the scope of the debt, which is supposed to amount to a billion 200 and actually only 850 million. The Court of Auditors gave the Government an opinion with reservation. As I mentioned earlier, the main differences are in the statement of expenditure and consequently in the balance. The government of the final account has not fixed it because it has already been invested in the National Assembly, in the text as it is before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u3	The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I'm giving the president a word. Mr Andre Visiak for presentation of the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. At its first regular meeting on 15 January, the Commission also considered the draft accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. There were quite a few materials - a proposal for a final account, including an explanation of the special part of the Owl and a consolidated state balance of assets. As explained by the Government, two key or most important changes were made to the balance sheet, namely the change in the status of the public railway agency in the direction of public railway infrastructure investment and the funding account also provided for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. The key reasons for the rebalancing were also in significantly better macroeconomic data than the forecasts of the 2007 budget. Thus, growth was planned when the 2007-4% budget was created, but in fact 6.1% was achieved, and inflation was slightly higher. Exports were planned at 7.9%, reached 13% and so on. The budget's realised revenue was 35 million euros higher than planned. This positive picture was then reflected also in the changed circumstances, which were only partially included in the balance sheet. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation to the general part of the accounts. The main two comments concerned the collection of public service debt and the reimbursement of funds to beneficiaries under the law on return to the public telecommunications network. The Court also gave an opinion with reservation on the correctness of the implementation of the budget. There have been discrepancies with the rules on employment, on salaries, personal benefits, etc. It is very important that the Court of Auditors did not require a response report but made certain recommendations to improve the situation in specific areas. In the debate, if I sum it up, there were some very important facts. The first is that the discussion on the subject of surpluses or deficits has been largely broken. It is important that the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published in September 2008 the information that in 2007 it was totaled EUR 176 million in surplus following the ESA95 methodology in Slovenia. Of course, the difference identified by the Court of Auditors was that the Court of Auditors interpreted otherwise the provisions of the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network as the Ministry of Finance and therefore the payment of funds was justified only in the balance sheet and, in the Court of Auditors’ view, it should also be in the balance of revenue and expenditure and the balance of financing, which would result in higher expenditure. Some issues related to the low realisation of EU revenues were raised in the discussion below. It was explained here that some investments were, of course, started in 2007, but were not paid in 2007 and therefore no cash flow and consequently no expenditure in the budget and no revenue as a return from European work or from European funds. A request for greater transparency of certain data was also made, including as regards the table of all four public cash registers, and the Commission finally adopted a decision proposing, pursuant to Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly adopt a final account in the proposed form, which was also the basis for the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honors are here! The final accounts for 2007 adopted by the Government last year are a reliably important act, but I think that, despite some findings on the shortcomings and non-compliance of the Court of Auditors, an act should be adopted. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely agree with the Court of Auditors, which stated the correctness of the implementation of the 2007 budget with the reservation - non-compliance with the rules on employment, wages and other personal benefits, non-compliance with the requirements of the budget, non-compliance with the award of public contracts, non-compliance with the award of transfers. The Court of Auditors’ opinion has also been expressed on the basis of the audit that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not acted in accordance with the provisions of the Public Servants Act, the Public Finance Act, the Law on State Authorities Workers, the Public Procurement Act and so on. The high economic growth in the first half of 2007, the increase in GDP to 6.5% and the rapid growth in investment and the growth in goods and services from abroad increased to 13.6%, almost equal to the 13.7% increase in imports. Thus, exports to economic growth contributed 9.4 percentage points. Gross investment in fixed assets increased to 21.6% at the end of 2006 and continued in 2007. With intensive housing, growth growth at the annual level has increased, which gives us the result of record economic growth in Slovenia in 2007. It is therefore incomprehensible how high economic growth is, on the one hand, and on the other, we are already facing a negative balance of the current balance of payments account, where exports and imports of goods and services are taken into account, as well as the trend in income and transfers, which is further deteriorating by the end of 2007. At the end of 2007, the period of high economic growth ended and we came into a cooling phase, as shown by data from the external environment, reduction in all factors, particularly exports. Due to poor planning and insufficient flexibility, the government has not been sufficiently resourced from the European Union. I wonder, of course, what are the cash flows between Slovenia and the Union, how much we pay and how much we get. We are certainly at a disadvantage here, as the Republic of Slovenia was a net payer to the European Union in 2008. However, it is not too late, as the period until 2013 is ahead of us and the interests of the State must prevail. The system doesn't need to be changed, but it just needs to be accelerated. As I am aware, the Court of Auditors has dealt with the 2007 budget several times, including with efficiency and whether the funds allocated are also exhausted. That's how things were known all the time. Under strict conditions, the whole of Europe, of course due to the economic and economic crisis, suggests that the European cohesion policy funds are used even more carefully to give the highest added value to the projects envisaged in the situation we have. As we can see, it doesn't show us very well in 2009. The situation may not improve until 2010, but only if we have learned something from the past. No matter how we vote in the Slovenian National Party, I believe nothing will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u8	Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the distinguished representative of the Government of the Ministry of Finance, welcome. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the Proposal for a Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 is as follows. Your Honor! The 2007 budget was adopted in 2005. Then, at the end of 2006, changes to the budget were adopted, after the middle of the year, more precisely in July, the budget balance for 2007 was adopted. Let me just point out a few key data points. Gross domestic product growth was planned when the budget was adopted at 4% and realised at 6.1%. Exports were planned at 7.9%, realised at 13%. Revenues were realised at 35 million above planned revenues. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2007 budget surplus was even EUR 176 million. The category of revenue from the European budget was the only category of revenue which had deviated in a negative direction, but more about it below. Expenditures were also planned to a much higher extent than were actually realised, namely a derogation of 386 million down. We are probably not too modest if we assess 2007 as the most successful fiscal year far back, and perhaps, unfortunately, far ahead. The 2007 draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia was revised by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, whose purpose was to draw up an opinion on the draft general part of the accounts and a statement of opinion on the correctness of the implementation of the 2007 budget. The Court of Auditors has found a number of irregularities and has made quite some interesting observations, which I will continue to object to in some way. Here I am thinking mainly of the part that speaks about the realisation of European funds. The Court of Auditors in its special report on European Union funds in the final accounts notes that only a little less than 60% of the planned revenue has been realised from European funds. This information should be of concern to us - of course, if it reflects the actual situation, it is not in our opinion. The only relevant period for assessing the effectiveness of European funds drawback is a period covering the entire programming period, rather than data on the use of funds within each financial year. Some other members of the European Union have come together on this issue. According to the information available to us for the date 31. 12. For the 2006-2008 programming period, Slovenia realised the share of payments from the budget of 94% at the level of the Structural Funds. The share of payment requests submitted to the European Union's paying authority was 80% on that date, bearing in mind that the proportion of signed contracts at that date was even 107%. The situation today is likely to be nearing maximum efficiency, but unfortunately we have not yet received accurate data from the Government. However, from the Cohesion Fund, 51% of the funds were spent on transport at that date and 37% in the environment, while the funds must be spent by the end of 2010. Data for the 2007-2013 programming period also show that already €1.5 billion of the total 4.1 billion available for the whole period has been awarded or certified. So let me finish this part. We cannot possibly agree on the basis of these data and facts with the Court of Auditors' assessment and with the flat-rate estimates which appear in the public opinion that Slovenia is making poor use of European funds. Let's see, in almost every congregation, there's a board that says about projects and who co-finances them. There is no way on the basis of these facts that we can talk about the loss of revenue from the European budget. Nor is it justified to talk about Slovenia being a net payer in the European budget. The only thing we can agree on here is the fact that in the past the forecasting of budgetary resources was too optimistic or implemented on assumptions that were unrealistic. This is also due to the poor judgment of project applicants regarding pumping dynamics. We also agree with the fact that the presentation of the scope of the European budget in the final budget account is not sufficiently transparent, as the final account itself does not provide sufficient clear and comprehensive information to enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the public to provide a comprehensive review of the use of European funds. We therefore support the idea of a specific institution or the preparation of a standard reporting format that would systematically address all the funds received from the European budget: those in the budget, those in the specific dedicated sub-accounts under the country's single treasury account and also those paid directly by the European Commission to the beneficiary in the Republic of Slovenia outside the national budget. At this point, let me conclude a presentation of the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the Proposal for a Final Account for the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. In the course of the discussion, the Members of our Group will focus in their individual debates on some other facts and circumstances. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the implementation of the budget was successful in 2007. As we did on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will now conclude the account with the desire that such a realization will be repeated again, and we will be pleased to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u9	Ms Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u10	Good afternoon, fellow Members and Members! Good afternoon, Madam Secretary of State and her associates! Good afternoon, too, Mr President of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, let me begin by saying that we will not support the final budget account for 2007. While it is true that the Court of Auditors has delivered only an opinion with reservation, both for the national budget balances and for the correct implementation of the State budget, some of the irregularities are of such nature that they still need to be given some specific emphasis. First, let me say that it is a matter of showing individual expenditure, revenue and indebtedness in the general budget for 2007, which has been presented in a series of public performances by both the previous Minister of Finance in recent years, both the Prime Minister and the former Minister of Economy, now as a Member, as an outstanding success of the previous government, three times in a row. Thus, for 2005, 2006 and 2007, the Court of Auditors concluded that certain expenditure or that certain expenditure was not recorded in the general budget and that the budget deficit was also fictitiously reduced. The misrepresentation of these revenue and expenditure resulted in a fictitious budget surplus and, in fact, a good EUR 9 million budget deficit should be shown for 2007. In order to better understand the problem, let us say that in Slovenia, like most EU members as well as in most countries in the world at all, we manage the state budget according to the cash flow methodology. And when we are talking about the state budget, we are only talking about the treasury state budget, so it is inappropriate and misleading to mention all four state treasury accounts when considering the final budget account, and it is not even necessary to use and justify the great success of the state budget or the country on the basis of the ESA methodology95. This applies to the wider sector of the country, which covers all four public funds and the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Slovenian Capital Company, in a work financed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, and ESA95 is only a statistical method that is not used by any EU country to manage the budget. The ESA95 does not take account of EU-Slovenia flows, as the European Commission is not interested in financial flows between the EU and Slovenia because they do not affect the long-term sustainability of public finances in accordance with the provisions of the Growth and Stability Pact. In the course of the audit of the accounts, the Court of Auditors found that the budget surplus of EUR 37 million and EUR 54,000 had been misrepresented at the time of the State budget balance, as no payments were made between the current transfers to the public telecommunications network beneficiaries of EUR 43 million and EUR 605,000. Nor did current expenditure on interest on fixed assets and charged costs of the Slovenian compensation company amounting to almost EUR 2 million have been shown. Of course, the final result of the 2007 budget balance of revenue and expenditure is appropriate, taking into account these two figures, a negative amount of EUR 9 million 54.053. Thus, the remuneration in the financing account is too low for 46 million 200,000 because the assets of the Slovenian Indemnity Company for the payment of funds to beneficiaries for investments in the public telecommunications network and interest on the established funds and the charged costs of the Slovenian Indemnity Company are not shown as the remuneration from the debt amount of EUR 46 million 203.772. This masked the fact that the difference between debt and debt repayment was not 73 million and almost 300,000 euros in debt repayment, but over 46 million euros in debt, or only 27 million and close to 100,000 euros. Although public finances legislation does not explicitly require this, it would be more transparent and, last but not least, fairer if, in the draft final account, in the general part of the budget, the takeover of the debt of the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia were to be shown as a debt in the financing account and as expenditure in the revenue and expenditure balance. Of course, this would make the budget deficit even more and significantly more comfortable and also politically and medialy attractive if we hide such deficits in a balance sheet that is not an integral part of the final account and does not affect the presentation of the financial effects of individual business events on the outcome of the budget. Any statement to the ESA95 and the positive outcome of the wider sector of the country shows that all those who divert public attention from untrue data on the results of the state budget management being addressed by the National Assembly do not wish to recognise other failures of the past government. Thus, the Court of Auditors’ findings on the results of the use of funds from the European Union are quite alarming, especially if we provide them with information on the effectiveness of drawing on European funds in the past year, which are even worse than in 2007. The fact is that in 2007 the European Union's revenue was 40% lower than planned, even by a million €140,000 less than in 2006. The 2007 budget planned EUR 582 million of revenue from European funds and realised almost 235 million less. It is also important to say this; we have paid almost €356 million into the European Union budget, 24% more than in 2006 and 12% more than planned. That is why we were a net contributor to the European budget in 2007 and we have shown a net deficit of EUR 8.65 million to the European budget. The realisation of structural funds inflows was particularly poor, with only a poor 57 million or only 24.4% of the planned good EUR 233 million being realised, representing even close to 9 million smaller realisations than in 2006. It is unfortunate, however, that even the European Commission notes that our country has cut off the worst in the planning of inflows from European funds. By the way, let me mention the interestingness with regard to the fulfilment of the statutory tasks of the Government in the previous term. On the basis of the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans for co-financing of extension and modernisation of spatial conditions, the loan contract between the University and Banka Koper amounting to EUR 2 million 845 thousand was signed on 12 October 2007, but the Ministry of Finance did not conclude a guarantee insurance contract during the audit with the University, which is contrary to Article 7 of the Act. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has thus caused unjustified and enormous costs on account of late interest on unpaid obligations of the University to the supplier, which cannot be justified in any way. All these irregularities and the concealment of the actual results of the management of the state budget in 2007 have led us, Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats to conclude that we cannot not only not but also - due to the warnings we have been sending to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia over the past four years and especially to the Ministry of Finance due to very similar and recurring irregularities - and we must not vote to confirm the final account for 2007. I repeat that the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the adoption of the final budget account for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u12	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. I believe that such a document, such as the 2007 accounts, will be difficult once again at the Assembly tables and that if we take a little walk through history and analyze the achievements in the field of public finances in 2007, given the achievements of the previous and previous mandates, we can identify the following trends. First time. At the end of 2007, public financial revenues amounted to around 42.9% of gross domestic product and were, in fact, stable over the last decade, measured, of course, as a percentage of GDP; while government expenditure fell and, of course, 42%;4% and showed a government surplus for the first time in ten years. Looking at the trends in the 2004-2007 period, we can see that, while maintaining the share of government revenues in gross domestic product, the share of public financial expenditure has fallen and thus substantially stabilised public finances. Of course, the state budget is only part of public finances, but if we do not have a comprehensive picture of what happened to public finances, what burdens taxpayers face directly and indirectly, of course we do tables or at least with a lot of closed eyes. The overall picture is extremely important in understanding the state of public finances and therefore I would like to draw it out: for the first time in the last ten years, the budget or public finances have fallen under public finances and thus created a public financial surplus of 0.5% of GDP. And if we walk to other very important macroeconomic indicators, we can find that the country's debt fell by about 2 percentage points during this period; from around 25.5% of GDP to 23.4% of GDP. In doing so, we must also point out that unemployment and employment have been recordly reduced during this period; that the vast majority of people in Slovenia have served or cared for their social situation with work and not with social transfers, which are and will always be a problem, both for public finances and for the lives of these people, because they are always too low. Well, it's funny to point out some of the tricks of the financial profession that want to find faults and thus politically point out weaknesses without having this complete picture. This comprehensive picture shows that, over the last four years, public finances have been able to stabilise, and it is important to relieve the economy by abolishing certain taxes. This is said, despite the fact that the tax reform has burdened the economy and natural persons, the government's revenue in GDP has been preserved, public finances have been significantly reduced and the country's debt to GDP has decreased significantly. Dear, well-respected coalition, if you have such information in the coming years, I will be happy to congratulate you on this speaker. Now he doesn't want to see it, and I understand that good results hurt someone instead of admitting them. If we go back a little bit to the practice of the previous term, I remember that I was a Member in the period 2000-2004, when we dealt with the closing accounts with a three-year delay - just because we did not update them, that the debate was more or less formal and there was no barbecue, because of this, of course, because the events were so far gone that no one was seriously involved with them anymore. Of course, I understand that the budget and the final budget account is part of public finances, that there are other cash registers here, that Kad and the Court are here and so on. And even though it will be very difficult to convince me, if we are talking, let's say, about the budget, that the picture here can be significantly different than it actually is in global public finances. This is just like looking at the budget of one family member and ignoring the family budget. And we would look, say, at the wife's budget, and we wouldn't be interested in how much income and expenditure the whole family has, because it kind of reflects the status and level of life of this family, because usually the income and expenditure are divided. I would like to draw attention to this broader dimension and a broader picture of public finances when we consider the final budget account in 2007. If I focus on two key issues, which have also been the subject of discussion, I can say something about drawing on European funds and returning investments to the public telecommunications network. First of all, drawing on European funds. You all know, or I hope, that you know that the financial perspective 2007-2013 for Slovenia has been extremely favourablely negotiated and that about 3-4 times a year is more in this financial perspective than in the financial perspective 2002-2004. As a result of this late adoption of the budgets of the European Union, the financial perspectives and the resulting negotiated operational programmes, the procedures for drawing on European funds have been launched relatively late, in the first year of the financial perspective, that is, 2007. And to conclude on the effectiveness of drawing on European funds the first year of the financial perspective under these circumstances is incorrect and can lead to wrong conclusions. I see that the coalition has actually been doing this and has already pulled the hand brake, which is good. Indeed, on the basis of these wrong conclusions on the financial perspective, they wanted to make organisational and institutional changes in the drawing-up of European funds and they stopped to God because they saw that this could do more harm than good. And also the European Union and the European Commission, which is responsible for drawing on European funds, has highlighted Slovenia as the best member in this regard and has advised on any organisational changes related to the use of European funds. Last but not least, as Minister of the former government, I can tell you that we have devoted a lot of energy to this efficiency of drawing on European funds, and I hope that these efficiency will continue. It is true, however, that the budget shows cash flow and the cash flow during the first year of drawdown was modest, which does not mean that something was wrong with drawing. In view of projects, calls for proposals, appropriations and, as a result, the launch of projects in nature started, which will be very clear in 2008 and 2009. Thus, the purpose for which European funds have been allocated has been achieved and thus is less important after my assessment of how cash flow or cash flow was. It is essential that quality projects are supported, which will generate as much added value as possible in the short term. And a return on investment in the public telecommunications network. The dilemma of the presentation of these funds was due to the different interpretation of the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network between the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. However, I allow the legal text to be such that it allows for dilemmas, but because of one different interpretation we cannot speak to him once about the public financial surplus or the budgetary surplus and the second about the deficit. That's what I think a little bit of hair is attracted to. In my opinion, the deficit is if you spend more than you get, and the surplus, if you spend less than you get. However, if there is a difference in the law, this is more or less financial-mathematic surgery, which has little to do with the condition of public finances. And something else, in the periods in which this idea developed, says before the previous term 2002-2004, was written such legislation that it could not be implemented so that it could not be returned to the beneficiaries of their investments. It didn't work out. Therefore, legislation had to be substantially amended, upgraded and returned, and now this is suddenly a problem. The problem is because the state transferred 10% of Telekom's shares to the SOD, and Telekom did not sell them, but paid off beneficiaries from other sources, which, by the way, allowed the law, and thus maintained ownership in this operator and also, according to my assessment, paid off these beneficiaries with some other poor investments. So, an operating law was made, funds were provided and payments were mainly made and are taking place, and now the problem is how it is written, whether it is actually written, whether it is not a book and where the balance sheet is exposed and the stock is "still under the roof", the shares are still in the country or in the parastatal fund, there is no sale at all. And it is true that if we limit ourselves and look at all these things only from those bureaucratic, bookkeeping salaries, a number of comments by the Court of Auditors stand and I agree with it. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are sitting here, where we must have a slightly broader picture of this and of the condition of public finances, whose important segment is the budget, its spending and the acquisition of funds that fill the budget. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal for a final account will be supported and we just want such a condition of public finances, as expressed at the end of 2007, to be valid in the future of this country, so that GDP or gross domestic product will grow as quickly as we saw it in 2007, so that once again the low unemployment rate, both registered and surveyed, and that we will also maintain the country's debt at least at this level of gross domestic product, but with all the projected budgetary or fiscal frameworks for 2009 we will not experience such a situation in the short term.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u14	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The final accounts of the State budget shall be a document showing the implementation of the State budget for each budget period or year. In accordance with the applicable legislation, the Court of Auditors shall verify the correctness of the draft State budget accounts or the correctness of the implementation of the State budget and shall, on the basis of its disclosures, make an assessment in the form of an opinion on the general part of the accounts and an opinion on the correctness of the implementation of the State budget or its compliance with the legislation in force. In addition to the audit report on the draft final accounts of the State budget for 2007, the Court of Auditors prepared a special report entitled "European Union funds in the final accounts of the State budget". It can be concluded from the 2007 Final Account proposal that the revenue of the State budget in 2007 was realised in a global manner at the planned level. Most importantly, tax revenue, which represents a good 90% of all budget revenues, was realised over the planned amount or almost 104%, slightly below the planned level, is the realization of non-tax revenues of a good 98%, and the realisation of European Union funds, which were only realised at a low level of 60% of the planned amount or the drop of EUR 235 million, is extremely poor. Within these European Union funds, the best implementation of more than 90% of the funds earmarked for the implementation of the Agricultural Policy Group is significantly worse in the area of structural funds and cohesion, where implementation is 25% and 32% respectively. Of course, the reasons for such a situation in this area cannot be, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the delay in payments made under this heading in the new financial perspective, but obviously in inadequate planning and preparation of projects. Despite the significant loss of budget revenues from the European Union - once again, I stress that 235 million is this outturn - the budget revenues in the global were realised in the planned framework, and only at the expense of greater realisation plus 270 million euros in tax revenues. The implementation of the 2007 state budget expenditure in a global way is lagging behind the planned amount of € 475 million or a good 5%. Within the budget expenditure, current expenditure for a good 6% below the planned level, implementation of current transfers for good 3%, investment expenditure for good 9% and investment transfers for poor 30%. In total, investment funds were realised by EUR 189 million to a lesser extent or 82% according to the planned level, which is clearly linked to the poorer realisation of European funds on the income side or to inadequate planning of the investment part of the budget. This should be borne in mind that the last 2007 budget was adopted on 12 July 2007 when it was possible to assess the reality of the implementation of the planned investments or their maturity. Payments in the European Union budget are made on a planned scale or higher by EUR 38 million than the original planned amount, mainly due to inflows of so-called own resources, customs and partly value added tax. The 2007 Final Account proposal thus shows a budget surplus of EUR 37 million, at the expense of lower expenditure implementation, in particular investment. On the basis of its disclosures, the Court delivered an opinion with reservation both on the proposal for the general part of the 2007 accounts and on the correctness of the implementation of the budget. In its findings, however, it highlighted the inadequate payments made by beneficiaries for investments in the public telecommunications network and the incorrect classification of expenditure between current transfers and current expenditure in the draft general part of the final account. The specific problem is also an inadequate debt takeover by the Railway Agency, although it did not affect the opinion on the general part of the final account. In assessing the irregularities in the implementation of the 2007 budget, five inconsistencies were thus identified with the employment rules, seven inconsistencies with the rules on the taking-up of commitments from the budget, three inconsistencies with the public procurement rules and fifteen inconsistencies with the rules on the processing of transfers; apparently too many. In view of the Court's disclosures in the 2007 revision of the draft accounts, which result in a significantly different result, or an unrealistic presentation of the actual situation in the state finances or the state budget, because instead of the surplus, the deficits cannot be confirmed in the sending group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u16	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance! The DeSUS Group has its opinion on the Proposal for a Final Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We agree that this is a document that shows some state that has been done. It shows the financial flows that took place in 2007; last but not least this year, in which our party also co-formed into coalition. It bothers us that this document is primarily one that reveals many irregularities and many anomalies in terms of the business and work of the Ministry of Finance. These have also been the reason and subject of the debate in our parliamentary group, and in particular relate to and stem from the Court of Auditors' marks, which identify significant inconsistencies with the rules on the taking-up of commitments from the budget, significant non-compliance with the rules on the award of public contracts, also in the granting of transfers, also in employment and wages, and perhaps elsewhere. However, these are things, and these are content and errors, which cannot be offset in any way by simply accepting or not accepting the final account. This is a content which could have a significant and significant impact on the course of events and the work of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, our Group of Members is examining all these observations by the Court of Auditors in such a way that it accepts it as an imperative and a guide to the work of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, a large gap and a large anomaly are, above all, areas relating to EU funding. If the Court of Auditors finds that the 2007 accounts are the only document which is somehow publicly presented to Members and Members and also shows the efficient and effective use of European funds, then we are deeply dissatisfied and concerned that different data on European funds are also being discussed in this Chamber. I think it is high time that all institutions dealing with this and these institutions, which are somehow obliged in this room and in this room to present clear and correct data, agree on uniform methodologies and come here with data that will be uniform. In this case, and in this case also on the basis of the final account and all the results of the Court of Auditors, we do not know which data we should have, which is the right one. Is it really 60% success in drawing on European funds? Is it 25% of the efficiency of drawing funds from cohesion funds? This, in my view and in our view, is one of the very important issues that should be resolved. Of course, it also pains us that, over the period considered, our Group has repeatedly requested these data - exact data on the use of European funds to determine efficiency. However, this data was by no means accurate or inaccurate. It pains us that, on the basis of all these distorted data, all of the financial developments, such as the preparation of the 2007 budget, such as the preparation of the 2007 balance, have also been created and it seems to us that the errors have already been made on the basis of this gap, which was based on incorrect European resource withdrawals. It is clear to us that payments from the European Union come not only directly into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia but also into various sub-accounts representing many custodians. Otherwise, it is combined in a single treasury account of the National Bank of Slovenia. However, it is not clear to us that there is not one legitimate institution that follows all of this, institutions that follow the currents and all the tides, and in this way also inform and provide data on the implementation and implementation of European funds for our country. Well. In our view, there are major errors, major anomalies, which certainly cannot be the subject of today's decision "for" or "against" the final account, but can only be a clear guide, imperative that these errors be corrected in the future. Therefore, our Group is also very much in favour of all the conclusions drawn up by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy concerning the content and the content of the drawing and tracking of European funds for our country. Notwithstanding the fact that the Court of Auditors and the critical debates today have also shown many errors and anomalies in the 2007 accounts, however, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the adoption of the 2007 accounts. In addition, a few ways to avoid opening the way for the adoption of all the following financial documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a decision. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president. The final account is a document that shows what was happening, now two years ago, in 2007. And I myself was previously in the congregation, later in the Municipal Council of Krko Municipality since 1988, and I know the material that we receive and what opportunities there are for us to interfere with such a document by accepting or rejecting it. I don't think I've ever experienced that before, that we wouldn't accept it, and at the same time, we'd warn you if anything was wrong. The 2007 budget also follows the Court of Auditors' report that everything is not in order. However, I would like to see that government, which will, at any time in the next hundred years, if nothing changes in the rules in this area, implement a budget that will have so many or less of these discrepancies and these observations. I myself have already received some audits in the congregation and I know very well how and what the Court of Auditors assesses, and I do not pretend that Slovenian legislation is so clear that these different views do not come to and end up with such conclusions as are recorded. I would also like to say two more words about this part of drawing on European funds. At the hearing, when both the Minister for Local Self-Government and the Minister for Development were present, we had a controversy about this, and I think that what we said at the time has already been confirmed; in Europe they have made it clear that you are doing stupid things, do not change the scheme, because you will be doing another year and a half with the establishment of a new scheme and actually making a delay in drawing funds. We have one big mistake of having a one-year budget, Europe has a seven-year budget. And the funds that are earmarked, these 5 billion, we have to draw on them in seven years. We've been very prepared for this period. I speak for the congregation of Krško - we were very good. We have 9.5 million European funds in the budget next year because we are already doing things on the ground. I am also very critical about the preparation of some ministries, which could actually have called for funds a long time ago, but they have not yet. But we now want to play a dramatic role in this matter, instead of focusing on tomorrow, to draw on these funds. The time until 2013 will run out very quickly, and if you think about using ministries and coalitions to deal with what happened in 2007, 2008, a lot of time, you'll spend so much more time for the next year. As far as your views are concerned, I believe that anyone who today would be given the opportunity to lead the Republic of Slovenia, to be sorry and to be sorry after 2007. We will no longer be able to have such indicators of truth in a loving way, for the macroeconomic environment and the global environment have changed significantly. I'd expect something else from the coalition. Today you are given a baton to lead this country. At least admit that Slovenia as a country is in a very good financial condition, that we are the least indebted country abroad, given our income, that we have where to take it so that we can overcome these difficult times. Tell the Slovenians and Slovenes that this country is a good country, that they should believe it and that there is hope in this country. I have to say that I am somehow disappointed and happy to hear Barack Obama's speech to the Americans, and that America is in a much more difficult situation, has made it clear that they are the best and will be back in the course of old glory, that they have made mistakes, that people should believe in their own country and trust it. What I've been listening to for the last few months is a simple "calibre" for me, where the government, from the president to the coalition, has put on the head of the Kalimer hat and is waiting for them to feel sorry for citizens and citizens, instead of starting with a positive charge a new start in Slovenia. I think that Slovenia is a country of good people, of business people and not to erase it and give people the opportunity and hope that tomorrow will be as it was yesterday. I'm pretty sure of that. If you don't believe this, I'm very afraid it won't be tomorrow. My appeal to the adoption of the final account - do not deal with the past - we have something else to deal with with with the Slovenian past. Keep up the good work for the future. I'm afraid the scenario is different for you to reject the final bill, to give the job to the finance ministry, to correct it, to be able to properly display some deficit, to have a political victory and to continue from there. I think it's better that both the finance ministry and the coalition deal with the future and build our case on it. I am also convinced that the political victory that has been won has been won on the changes, but go the other way as you go today. I will support this final account myself and appeal to all those responsible in this country to deal with a situation that is not simple today, is not pink, but let us give people a little optimism and trust ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present! Undoubtedly, 2007 was one of the more successful years, if not the most successful in the previous term. This is not the last part of the Court's report if we read it fully. Finally, it can be concluded that the recommendations are made in five indents, that they relate to individual ministries or bodies in the composition and that they are mostly of a formal nature. It has never happened before that the final account, as it has been adopted, should be corrected at the level of the Government or individual budgetary consumers. Nor has the Court of Auditors requested this, nor has it ever required it before, even though in the past the attempts of the then opposition now ruling to correct, say, the 2005 final account, that for exactly the same reasons, there was too little deficit from the wrong books as it actually was. At that time, it was a relationship with the Pension Retirement Act, which fixed and stabilized the pension fund in the long term and allowed pensions to be paid on a regular basis from then on every month and that the pensioners no longer read articles in newspapers, such as until 2004, or that the pension fund would be able to cash out the pension money. This has not been the case in the last four years because this law, which has highlighted the relevant mechanisms and settled the debt back, has been adopted. The final account was therefore successful. It shows a surplus of EUR 37 million. If we take into account the Court of Auditors' comment - if I simplify that everyone who listens to us will understand this - that we have a number of other cash and not just cash budgets. And that in this case all cash registers and statements of all cash registers should be taken into account. Taking into account the accounts of all these cashiers, including the cashier’s Court to which the case relates, this surplus is not 37 million, but 176.6 million euros, according to the ESA-95 methodology. And if you object to it being not comparable, that it is only statistical, then we can use the methodology of paid realization, but we still get to €90.6 million in surplus. But in no case can we get to the minus. Nor does it make sense, since the revenues across all segments in 2007 were realised in the majority significantly higher than they were planned, with one exception, these are European Union funds. And the expenditure was realised at a lower level than planned. A projected debt of EUR 350 million was not realised as planned. According to the content, after this simple review of the basic indicators, if we do not go into detail, it is quite clear that there cannot be a deficit on the basis of these indicators and therefore the surplus is a logical consequence of this picture. Even in 2008, as we read in Finance, the budget realised a surplus almost twice as high as in 2007 of 68 million euros. So where does this strong desire of the former opposition to show a different picture than the real one through the evidence of misrepresentation and appropriate media support. I'd like to show you a black picture, some kind of stalemate in public finances. So where did this strong desire come from? The answer is very simple. It is essentially the last final account of the former government, which the public will still see as the final account of the former government. For when in a year, if you don't start using the practice that you've been trained to do by 2004, when you've received the final accounts after just two, three years at a time, when in a year, we'll be looking at the final account for last year, for 2008, this matter will be understood as your achievement. And then it won't be necessary to prove so vehemently whether this surplus is real or not. That's the main reason. I would like to mention another point in this debate, which was very strangely interpreted in the position of one of the groups of Members. This is financing the investments of the University of Primorska. In 2003, you founded this university, naked and barefoot. You haven't accompanied her with a law that would finance her investments. We did it in 2005. The law was adopted in the National Assembly at the initiative of the members of the National Assembly of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, adopted unanimously and all the university's investments financed in accordance with the plans run normally. Thus, tourism in Portorož was funded without any problems. No problem. Why? Because the plans for implementation did not deviate by nearly 1%. Of course, Armenia-Foresteria was not realized, where the estimated amount of approx. 1.1 billion former tolars have grown to little less than 2 billion. Instead of wondering where the responsibility of the one who allowed it is, some will now ask themselves about the responsibility of the former minister because he did not want to approve. Wrong world. But in other segments, I think the law allows the university to develop in a normal way. If I finish. Both 2007 and 2008 will, thank God, state treasury transactions with budgetary surpluses. I advise you to use it usefully instead of losing yourself in fruitless debates on how to view it as a deficit. However, I am afraid that we will not be asking ourselves about the amount of the surplus at the end of 2009 or whether the deficit will be too high or too low, but I am afraid that we will be asking about the spread of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the president and all the co-workers and the co-workers! The final account can be interpreted in many different details. However, it is undeniable that the Court of Auditors has found a number of irregularities and violations. Here we are not talking about one violation, two, three violations, but the summary report of these violations covers only 12 pages. The biggest infringement that seems very problematic to me is the creative classification of the payments made by beneficiaries to invest in the Telekom network. In short, to show this graphically, the government has hidden as much as EUR 46 million 203 thousand 772. Then the budget surplus is no longer nearly €40 million, but almost €10 million of the budget deficit. This, co-workers and co-workers, is a real situation in the correct budget methodology 2007. EUR 46,203,772 is half of the budget of the municipality, such as Koper. So we're not talking about change. The biggest negative information that actually disappoints is the constant decline in EU cash flow. Out of 77% of the realized pumps in 2006, which is already problematic, because we immediately lost 23% of the money that will not come back, then we constantly fell and reached only 46.38% by 2008. Colleagues and coworkers on the other hand, I don't think that's a reason to laugh, but it's a cause for concern. I understand that the truth hurts and that that's why you're here to disturb my debate. I'm asking you to calm down and follow this to the end. Collaborators and coworkers, that's not just a bad result. This is lost money, which belonged to Slovenia, would belong to Slovenia if the tenders were published in time. Now the question is, because I think you can answer the question in the right future. Why has Slovenia sent its plans for the financial perspective 2007-2013 significantly too late? Instead of sending the strategy ahead of the start of this financial perspective, no later than 2006, I remember that, at the time I was involved in entrepreneurship and the calls were very important to me, the Government sent guidance, only guidance, on 16 February 2007, this is a month and a half after the financial perspective period had already begun. As a result, calls for a good half year or almost a bad year were delayed, and lost time in the EU means lost money. I cannot congratulate you on the poor state of public finances and on the way the 2007 budget is being implemented. Nevertheless, the previous government is recognized for its efforts and artistic impressions. However, this is not enough and, due to consistency, I will have to vote against the validation of the final account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor. Replica, I'm sorry. Replica, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u24	Just for a little while, so it won't be misunderstood. We laughed because one of our colleagues was gone, but I can see that he got the right compensation. Now seriously about these tables. For the deaf this time, it has been said many times. The year 2007 is the period when the new financial perspective started and has not yet been implemented in cooperation. From this point of view, drawing is irrelevant because nothing that has been negotiated will not be lost. That's essential. The problem that arose was that planning was too ambitious. The financial perspective is 2007-2013 plus two. It is important that we make use of what has been negotiated under the English Presidency at the end of 2006. One of your colleagues criticized the position we held at the time, or held by the then President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, very harshly, saying, "When the others negotiated and gave up 10% of cohesion themselves, our president went to bed." These were the words of the current Secretary-General of the Government of Milan M. Cwickle. Our then president knew very well what he was doing, because Slovenia was the only country to have negotiated more cohesion funds than those countries that had resigned six months earlier. What is essential in these funds is that Slovenia has negotiated far the most that is possible during this period available. And what is important now is, and it is up to you that this current, which was successfully launched in 2008, will not be stopped. The information I've had in the past few days gives me a lot of concern. Because those projects that have already been set up and have already run are slowly halting and there are no new calls, nor are they foreseen. I hope it doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. President! Detailed explanation of why we will not support the final account in the Group of Members has been given by colleague Villa Trofenik, and this is also all that can be said in an exact way about the point called the consideration of the final account. Such professional points would probably be good if the Rules of Procedure provided that only those who really know each other can discuss themselves. If this had been written down, then the debate would not have been what we are hearing today, as we have also heard from the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, on the one hand or on the other. The closing account cannot be interpreted in different ways, or, as colleague Vizjak says, it is necessary to have a wider picture. This hearing, which was held by the Commission and which is today, is not an assessment of the previous mandate, nor is it an assessment of the performance of the former President or of the previous Government, but is only one point, which is called the final account, where, under the prescribed law, the methodology is recorded everything that took place in 2007 on the revenue and expenditure side. And that's the whole story. And the only and highest authority in our Republic of Slovenia is the Court of Auditors, which has found out what it has found. And that's the only thing that can be a topic and that can be discussed. However, when such a finding is supplemented by estimates and data from the statistical reports, from the estimates of individual other parameters: employment, inflation and everything, then we have what we are listening to and what I am sure we will listen to not only at this meeting, but also how someone advocates performance, while others point out that the Court of Auditors has found that the accounts for 2007 are the same as they are. And I would not want to be mean, but there was something in the previous mandate of individuals who even doubted whether the former Minister of Finance even controlled the entire public finances, not only the Minister of Economic Affairs, but today speaking is precisely about the fact that the actions, findings of the Court of Auditors, the accounting professions are referred to as accounting tricks or bureaucratic accounting moves that want to cloud the success of the previous mandate. This is all that certainly does not lead to good cooperation in the years ahead. And there's probably no one who's opposed to the excellent results of the past few years, but we all know that seven fat cows get dry for seven fat cows. And when the dry cows were already walking across Europe and even in Slovenia, unfortunately, the former Minister of Economy did not even notice them. And that's why it doesn't hurt anyone's good results over the years, but it hurts the problems that we all face right now. That is why these debates and this proof of who is right in this story are unnecessary, but in particular they do not lead anywhere, nor in that direction, in order to improve the condition, which unfortunately is not as good at this point as you want to show it, but it is significantly worse, but it is common and we will also have to resolve it together. And just one more thing. You also need to look back into the papers. And if my colleague Bogovich doesn't believe me, today's newspaper says a spark: "Whoever wants to read in the future must be leafy in the past." Just by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The area of finance, in my view, is an extremely sensitive area, especially when it comes to public finances or when the final account determines how successful the State has been in dealing with tax money. Some data on Slovenia's macroeconomic development and the 2007 accounts were presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance in the introduction, which was already presented in the Commission's report. Thus, GDP growth, exports and budget revenues were higher than planned and surpluses were found instead of planned deficits. The Court of Auditors carried out an audit of the accounts for 2007 and found the opposite in its report. According to their final account, it is EUR 9 million in deficit, not EUR 37 million in surplus. This is due to the different interpretations and, as a consequence, the incorrect payment of funds to beneficiaries under the law on the return of investments to the telecommunications network. It seems incomprehensible to me that in a document such as a final bill, someone sees a surplus and someone else sees a deficit. I understand that it is possible for accounting exercise, if I so call it, to come to different conclusions, but the rules must be clear and, above all, the same for all. It is clear that accounting and paw auditing legislation or rules are flawed. For those who do not know the accounting rules, it does not matter whether the cash flow methodology or the event methodology is used for accounting or whether it is the ESA-95 methodology or any other method, it is important that the rules are all the same and apply to all. Of course, I do not doubt the expertise of the Institute of the Court of Auditors, but I certainly have no doubt and must not doubt the professionality of the staff of the Ministry of Finance working in this area. However, it is necessary to know something that the SURS is responsible for the official determination of the amount of the deficit, says the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and not the Court of Auditors. The Ministry of Finance shall draw up a report on the country's debt and deficit on the basis of the ESA95 methodology, on the basis of the occurrence that the SURS then uses to determine the deficit. According to this data, for the first time since 1995, the SURS found that the State of Slovenia had created a surplus. According to the Ministry of Finance, this surplus would also be in the event that funds from the return on investments in the public telecommunications network would be shown in the budget and not in the Slovenian Compensation Society. I would also point out that the Coalition’s 2004/2008 Coalition Treaty stated that the Coalition would implement the development of State accounting in accordance with international accounting standards applicable to the public sector and issued by a competent international institution and, on the basis of these standards, establish a comprehensive system of accounting for all public expenditure, state assets and the public sector on the accounting basis of the occurrence of the event. On this basis, it is also based on the determination of Slovenia's obligation to the International Monetary Fund, the basis of which is also the principle of the occurrence of the event, according to ESA 95 methodology. Today, we will decide whether or not to confirm the final bill. In view of the fact that the Court of Auditors did not require a response report, but has made some recommendations to improve the situation in particular areas, I will vote in favour of adopting the 2007 final budget account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u29	Mrs Renata Brunskule has the floor. She's not here. Excuse me. I didn't see you in the chair. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u30	Nicely greeted! Today, there have been some serious and also, I can say, wise arguments that in some ways have convinced me that we really need to get sufficiently familiar with the shortcomings and violations and also possible errors in the current shift in the accounts of the State budget for 2007. I believe, and I know, that the Court of Auditors' finding is not just that, and that the Court of Auditors' finding is that such a small realisation in the area of structural funds is not only due to cash drawback, but also due to inadequate planning based on unrealistic items. We are also reminded of the inadequate planning of the Republic of Slovenia's payments by the European Commission. I would really not want to politicize this or, in any way, to bring in someone who led the government in the previous term, was in charge of the ministry or was responsible, including the minister. However, I think that the debate, which was also given by my colleagues, that we should not somehow think and look into the past, I think and agree with my fellow Member Posedel when he mentioned that it is right to look also at the past, precisely so that we do not make similar mistakes ourselves or, more importantly, shortcomings. We want everyone together, as already mentioned today, as the new US President has mentioned, to do better, so we do not want to make mistakes again. Let's not look at anything bad about this, let's face the fact, and I think it's right that we should get to know more about what and how to do things better now in the beginning, with the desire to be more successful. And I can also say, as mentioned earlier, in the case of the municipality, when we have the audit reports, the purpose of the audit and also the control of the Court of Auditors is not that any of us are accusing or looking at a worse light. The aim is to correct mistakes, the purpose is to do right, better and more correctly. That is why I also believe that, in relation to the final account, in business practice, I have faced the final accounts of companies, public institutions, the final accounts of the municipal budget, and I also assess and propose that the Ministry and all those who were responsible should really take a closer look at this and also more concretely. I believe that this will also be done within the framework of the Committee on Finance, including within the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, I believe that we will also talk about this right next week at the meeting and that then we will all feel better when we look into the matter and realize certain facts that are somehow not presented to us today. Not because someone wanted to let us know, but maybe it wasn't shown because it was an assessment that we didn't need to show us the facts in such detail. However, it is right now to resolve matters, now let us look at everything mentioned, which the colleagues have discussed before, not to repeat. Let us look at all of this, let us discuss it, and then let us make the same decision. I believe that there will also be a secretary of state and, together with the competent Directorates, a great deal of readiness for these matters to appear as they are, or that we will discuss this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Let me start by saying that I will vote in favour of this final account. And at the final stage, I can also say that I won't mind if you refuse in the coalition. Then we will probably discuss again, and then, with this leadership of the country, as it is now, there will be even more expression of how good the governance of the country from 2007 has been, not well, excellent. And then there will be an expression of this difference in quality. And you just reject this budget, we will discuss it again, we will prepare ourselves even better, and we will prepare even better representations and even better comparisons with 2007 and the current governance of the country, when the situation is worse every day. I'm not going to say that this is now the fault of this government, but I want to say that you will probably want to make mistakes during this government's 2007 government, because it has had such excellent results. Now we're going in order. The final account is certainly a review of a situation. We've already heard that from the secretary of state, and I'll give it to her right here. It's some kind of painting that shows certain legalities. If you want, it can also be a mirror that shows our image, the image of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, and the leadership of the country in that year. Although this image does not necessarily appeal to you, you can request a new mirror, a new closing account, a new office. But the facts will remain: high economic growth, low inflation, low debt. It'll stay the same. There's nothing you can do about it. But there's something you can learn from this picture. The fact that it is positive, because it is good, and you do not deny that something like this might have happened in 2007 is worth imitating. But what was bad is that it is not good to imitate, and it is good to put an end to it. And you have every chance to get rid of it. There are, however, some things in this report that are still in place today. Maybe in 2007 they weren't that relevant, and we didn't even realize that they were real, but today they're becoming real, and I'd like to introduce you to that. So that I don't think about it, I'm going to refer to this material that we got. It says. In 2007, for the first time in years in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the surplus of revenue over expenditure was realized, or the State budget had a surplus of EUR 37 million. Let me get some stats. If we took into account all four cash registers since 2000, we would not have done so before 2000, because we had invented an instrument at the time where the revenue of the state budget was 13 months and the expenditure was 10. And that's not real. Since 2000, this has been the case: the current deficit in millions of euros, in 2000 688 million euros, followed by an increase in 2002 821, in 2002 568, 2003 672, 2004 601, 2005 412, 2006 377, 2007 177 plus. However, debt as a percentage of GDP fell from 26.8% to 23.4% since 2000. These are the facts that I think count for something. In addition, I would like to give you some information. GDP grew 6.1% this year, inflation 3.6%, exports 13%, imports 14%, investments in fixed assets 17%, registered unemployment fell from 96% to 7.7%. Exports amounted to 8.8 percentage points of economic growth. Maybe even that interesting thing that got real this year, because it's gone this year. This year there was high inflation, so it's 3.6%, and it says why it's slightly higher. What's interesting here, why is this up to date? Some economists who are today will be able to say, in the government, I don't mean the government here physically, but they are in the ruling coalition, saying that high economic growth is the basic source and the biggest problem in Slovenia because it generates high inflation, and this is a disaster. Today, a good year after that, we have low economic growth, I still hope that economic growth is, but very low, but inflation is also very low, unemployment is higher. Every day is bigger, every day we can listen to how many people lose their jobs. We can also ask how many young people do not get a job. Now I will ask you: What is better, what is more catastrophic, and what is high economic growth is slightly higher than inflation, or whether low economic growth and low inflation are largely unemployed, but young people are not getting a job. That's why I read this because I think it's real right now and we can learn something from it. That is to say, those economists who at the time said that high economic growth was poor, I think they could bite their tongues and ask those who had already lost their jobs due to low inflation today because of low economic growth. So this is the first lesson we need to learn. The next thing I want to remind you of, and there are features, is the following. According to the implementation of the previous year, according to 2006 the revenue from the tax on paid salaries decreased by 13% in 2007. This is due to the last amendment of the Law on the Tax on Wages paid, which entered into force in January 2006. It is said that the previous government has accepted a reduction of 20% per year. This means that the salaries are, therefore, less burdensome for the employer to pay. But it was only for those with higher wages, so to speak, for those people who have, say, a high level of education. And the Slovenians are sworn to know. But in previous times, we have burdened knowledge. And the lower burden was on those who were doing business. And the previous government - and the effect was also in 2007 - reduced this tax to paid wages. This means that employers have made it easier to employ people with high education. We also need to learn this today. Oh, thank God, this summer is a tax drop. And that, I think, is good. And I think you agree and agree, but I hope you will not look at this from this point of view now, so that you will have a deficit in the budget for this. I think you can cancel this with excise duties. I hope you've cancelled this already, and you've fixed all things. Maybe the next thing. The realisation of the funds for salaries, contributions and taxes paid in 2007 was so much and so much, representing a 4.2% increase, despite the reduction in the rates of duty paid in 2007 and the reimbursement of transport costs to and from work. A comparison across subsets of budgetary users shows that these expenditure was the most overall increase in the number of judicial budgetary users in 2007 by 8.3%, at least in non-governmental users. That says something, too. Thus, during that period 2007, wages increased; I wanted to say where they were most. Next feature. The 2007 balance of the budget estimated that so much revenue will be raised from the social security contribution to the Treasury. In fact, it was achieved by almost 10%, 8.7% more or 5% more. That is to say, all those who spoke last year about the fact that Slovenia is not a social state, that that previous government does not have a social ear, you are denied information. I'm not gonna say how much you had to say, I'm sorry, there's not a lot of people here anymore, but some of you are still here because there were elections, you talked every day about poverty. There was obviously no reason for that at the time. Today, four months after the elections, we are almost in a position to talk about poverty. How quickly things change and how quickly we have to bite our tongues and how quickly something falls on our heads. I don't want to discuss this anymore, because I think that the chatter that was before the elections last year is too serious for us to now experience this in any way politically, we will probably have to say something about when the situation, when we can talk about poverty, was worse, or in 2007, 2008 when we had such high economic growth and favourable results, including financial, even budgetary, or today when we all go into recession. Thank God she's not in Slovenia yet - even for a good basis. They're facts, and it just doesn't work. The following, which is very current at this time, was recorded for 2007. In September 2007, excise duties on energy products decreased by €41 000 per litre, while gas oil for propulsion purposes decreased by €21 000 per litre. The loss due to the lower excise duty was almost entirely neutralized by higher amounts of energy. Thus, in 2007 the government reduced to the lowest possible level of excise duty for energy consumers. To the lowest possible level. The government doesn't have 100 days yet, and we've raised 10% in the first round 14 days ago, and this week, mainly, prices have risen, but oil prices have not. So, something had to change. Either we say excise duty or we say with some other bureaucratic measure, but prices have risen. These are the facts, and this proves that the previous government did not solve with excise duties on petroleum derivatives because it was aware of what the price of energy for motorists who were the loudest at that time, as well as for industry and, of course, for every individual who uses gasoline daily, so that they can drive to work. Our colleague, Mr Vizjak, has made it clear to us what that price increase means by about 10%, about EUR 300 for a one-year drive to work. That's what the data is. So this is a very topical matter. And the next thing I want to say to you. There's a lot of data, a lot of images, some segments, but the mirror will always show high economic growth, high investment, so to speak, zero unemployment for 2007. The country's deficit has decreased. Although inflation was a little higher, you know, when you question the calculation methodology, these results will still remain. Economic growth and that. And if you say that this is also the responsibility of the secretary, who has given more emphasis in writing this report to the centre of the right hand, but not to the left-hand intercom, it will still remain the same result. The mirror will still show the same contract, the same image. And the following, which is very important, is also indicated by the data - the country was not in charge. Slovenia is still one of the least indebted countries in the world or, say, in the European Union, where we are most easily compared. This is, of course, an opportunity for this government when it is likely to have to do so. And just imagine if the previous government had committed itself - what would happen now? But apparently, the previous government was well aware that it was not necessary to make a debt and that it had found the resources for everything that even you had thought we should not be in debt. Also in the case of the student diet, in the previous term, you have shown us that this should not be done because this will affect the budget treasury. Can you imagine that?Oh, my God! That's what's been going on. But I guess that went well. And I also want to conclude that there are other colleagues who can say something. I think that today, even though some of you have disputed this final account and the results that have been achieved, there are already a lot of stakes after those "errors" in the narratives that the previous government has been doing. If you get about that kind of results, we'll applaud you. And I think because you're reading to us in making this report that some administrative pranks have been used to show a better result, I want you to find yourself, and you're going to have to find a lot of such tricks to show about such a good closing account for 2009 as shown for 2007, when the previous government was responsible. A lot of ingenuity. I hope that you will not use such a thing as was used in 1997 or 1998, when the financial year lasted 13 months for revenue and 10 months for expenditure. But you'll obviously have to practice magic to achieve such results. Of course, I don't want that to happen because we're all in the same boat. And if it gets messy on your side, it'll be on our side. Slovenia is the same boat. We need to be aware that what is true is that the change in the mirror also means nothing. Although it may be colored glass, the result is still exactly the same. I will, of course, support the final bill. But what I said at the outset is: refuse, and we will discuss again, and we will show more information on what happened in 2007 and compare with what is happening now. It'll make the picture a little cleaner. Well, I'll support the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko has the floor [[...]] Replica, please. You haven't been mentioned, I can't give you a replica, he hasn't referred to you, and we have to follow business regulations so I don't see why I should give you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u34	That's true, Mr. President, but you've done it before. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u35	Yes, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u36	You did the same thing with Mr. Blackach. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u37	Before that, it was a reference when we finished the debate, it will certainly be time. I'll give you extra time to discuss, if you want to apply, you can apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u38	Well, it's a process. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u39	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u40	Procedurally, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u41	Mr. Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u42	Allow the president. Just as an observer. Previously, you gave a replica to a SDS MP, even though it wasn't mentioned. It's a Ferplai.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u43	It's not just a matter of names, it's a specific reference to the content that was spoken, but it wasn't here. Believe me, I've been following the matter very closely, and my colleague, Dr. Luke Juri, will have the chance, if time remains, to answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u44	Respectable. The 2007 final budget account is, of course, an important document, which also reflects the government's success or failure during this period. We can say that black and white painting is of course out of the question, but we can see together that 2007 was, of course, the year of "fat cows". If it were then found that there was no fall in unemployment, some other data, then it would actually be a real disgrace to the government that was in power during that period. I must say that there were relatively few social transfers during this period, and if the state was social, as has been said here, this has also been at the expense of the burden of the municipalities. Let me mention that help at home, subsidies to young families in the payment of kindergarten, rents, and so on, is all that burdens municipal budgets and is by no means due to the ruling team. However, we note that the success of drawing on only 60% of European funds is not a success. It is also not a success of 25% of the implementation of the absorption of structural and cohesion funds; it is not the success of 180 million less spent investment funds. The parishes in the municipalities of Slovenia and in the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia discussed several times how to reach these European funds in some clever logic. Unfortunately, it was also often so that funds were granted to municipalities that were "ours". This could have been felt, and we discussed it a lot. They say, my predecessor, that the recession in Slovenia is not due to a good foundation. Then let him go to Parliament now and convince the union representatives and others who are out there right now that the foundation is good and that they have nothing to protest. I don't think we can rely on that anymore, and we need to keep working. Certainly, I am sure that such a period as 2007 will probably not occur in 2009 and 2010. But this has not been used for the benefit of the people of Slovenia, the development of the economy and the successes that would lead us to a higher level in Europe. I will therefore vote against this document and expect another word to be spoken in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u46	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you! It is likely that 50% of the clean politicians in this House are exploiting every smallest matter for manipulation. I would like to be direct, at the outset, to say that today we are discussing the closure of the 2007 account. I don't know why it's mixed up in 2008 and why it's mixed up in 2006, you discussed 2006 a year ago, we're going to be discussing 2008 in one year, so it's probably just what's on the table today. And in some segments this report needs to be assessed positively. Of course, there are 31 disagreements found in the report. And it has to be called as it is written. However, since I like to be specific, in this area of my origin, we have our own development agency, which has informed me of the running of calls. No one's ever talked about this before today. I admit that I have received the following opinion from this context. The calls were badly prepared, they were catastrophic. Why? They've been swapping since the announcement was made for six to eight months. That's right. Tenders changed, announced tenders published at the beginning of the year changed several times until the start of the tender. What does that mean? This means putting all those who understand and prepare for the invitations in a terrible position. Since an invitation to tender, one who is seriously involved in the invitation to tender, must be prepared in a drawer of about 50% when you can reach the invitation to tender when it is announced and when you have to submit the tendering conditions. And imagine that you are preparing for the invitation to tender, which was published in the tender, and then when the publication comes, there are completely different tendering conditions as they were announced. And we've seen it in Pomour. Murje is an polluted, contaminated agricultural area. We've been fighting for a couple of years for the pomur water supply. And we've been talking about this pomura plumbing for five years. Finally, we signed contracts that were relatively favourable, namely 10% plus VAT. And look at him, you piece of shit! Last year we received a message that these contracts are invalid, that they need to be re-signed - according to new parameters. Once worse conditions were reached for our congregations than was previously signed. So now I see that for some they are such, for some they are different. It is clear from this that the deficit in drawing on European funds in 2007 is evident. All those who know what's going on in 2008 know it's even worse. Today I am exclusively discussing on the basis of what I want, as do all of you who have discussed before me, so that in 2009 it will be better. To be better seized for the Republic of Slovenia and for all the citizens we live here. At the expense of this, we need to address some of the key problems that I will count. The criteria need to be changed in terms of easier, faster, more efficient use of resources, easier preparation of documentation, of course within the criteria of the European Union, because we cannot escape this. And because individual areas, including individual municipalities, are making a great deal of effort in terms of obtaining funds from different segments, as you know we have them at our disposal. Finally, I must admit that it is true that there is a suspicion that some projects that did not meet the criteria have received the green light. I know them, too, one or two. As a result, I will be pleased to support the revision of the procedures that need to be carried out in principle in order to see which and which funds have been received that have not been made available to them under the criteria. Since there are many anomalies in this context, of course this final account for 2007 cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u48	Dear Mr. President! Representatives of the Ministry! Colleagues and colleagues! Have a nice hello to you all. The proposal for a final account is a fact implemented, which unfortunately we cannot really change. I agree, however, that the warnings of the Court of Auditors are worrying and must be taken seriously, and that appropriate action must be taken in the future. I agree that it will take quite some time to record such economic growth indicators and therefore we should behave differently as good owners in the time of the "fat cows" and take advantage of the revenue created, create a reserve for the period of "dry cows", which undoubtedly comes after the fat ones. As for the claim that a small economy and natural persons were burdened with this, let me just say and point out that we were indeed burdened in the first 2007 but burdened with the calculation of these reliefs that we had before. However, while explaining that the abolition of the benefits also reduces the level of progression for natural persons, I have to say that it has indeed been reduced from 50% to 41%, while we have forgotten to say that the bases have been raised from 21 or reduced from 21,000, as they were before, to 14 thousand 400, which meant that without relief the majority of those who have already created themselves in progress have actually fallen. Thus, the small economy was significantly more burdened and less able to invest at a time of great economic growth when certain profits were generated and small enterprises could invest and grow and also create new jobs. I fear that the final accounts for 2008 will be even more catastrophic. I will support the audits and reviews, the inventory of the situation, so that we know what we have in our possession and what we will actually be responsible Members of Parliament for coming to this meeting recently. Even promised subsidies for motorists who were already in the first month of 2008 have not yet been realised due to the abolition of the allowances, and I hope that they will now help at least this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you. The word has magic. It's a crane. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I hear this debate today, I must say that I am extremely glad that there has been a change of power, because the previous government rule has been disastrous, unprofessional and, above all, political. At the time of taking over the new government, of course, all these findings will fall away, everything will be significantly better than it was. In fact, this was announced before the elections when you said that Slovenia could lead better and when there was a lot of talk about relaxation, which was supposed to somehow erupt from life in Slovenia during the rule of the previous government. It's more than obvious that those of us who worked in the previous government were all incapacitated, incompetent in order, that I won't tell a thief or a bastard that I won't say another word. On my own, I know how I worked and what my intentions were. I fought against the biggest lobby, and I fought it openly and publicly, which no one has actually done before me. And today I wonder what and for whom. Today we have, thank God, in the government itself experts who will correct and improve all of our mistakes. However, I am also of the opinion that it would be an extreme time, as many others have thought, to really start working on correcting these mistakes, on those things that are hot and that they would not be so busy right now, which is so problematic, with history. And we expect action in particular. I am also firmly convinced that the change of power will also change the Court's desire and will to seek irregularities in the functioning of the Government and ministers. This, in fact, confirms once again my view that it was high time for the change of power. However, I sincerely wish that such a year as 2007 would ever happen again, regardless of who will rule, or whether one or the other party. I would also touch on the evidence that European funds have been spent, given that it has been mentioned several times that this money has actually been lost. It is not lost and you know that it is not lost, that we will be able to draw it by 2013 and later, as we drew on the previous financial perspective last year and this year, it is likely that something will be drawn from this perspective. And all that, and I conclude, what you've read most about the previous government, about behavior, about culture, about listening to the opposition, about taking into account other people, etc., you haven't changed anything, which you haven't promised, and it saddens me. And I'm wondering today what you're actually going to accomplish by not confirming the final bill. According to my assessment, nothing, except that someone will have to deal with when, in fact, they can do as much productive as possible instead, because these data and the achievements achieved in 2007, you probably won't be able to change with, I don't know, inventing some new numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Coralich. He's not here. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u52	During the reign four years ago and ruling today, there are important spills. You ruled at a time when Slovenia recorded high economic growth due to favourable international conjuction, as well as the good work of our people. We don't have that blessing. At the same time as the new government was appointed, a crisis entered the big door in Slovenia, Europe and the Council. Virtually every government has at least another month, each ficus needed to find its own place. Of course, we didn't have that privilege, we didn't even want it. Our government had to start working the first day to show a tooth crisis. Citizens and citizens, and this is particularly important in the consideration of the final account for each year, because, for the functioning of this country and the entire community, they devote an important part of their salary and their earnings, they deserve to know that their money is spent in accordance with their purpose, so that the community is regulated, that the environment is clean, that natural resources are protected, that it is taken care of the weakest in our society and that fundamental conditions for the development of the community of the economy and the opportunities for individual promotion of each and every one of us to earn their money in the community are created. It is therefore the duty and responsibility of the policy to demonstrate consumption in a transparent and honest manner. The Court of Auditors’ opinion shows that the proposed final budget account for 2007 does not show any actual situation. We see this in the area of pension registers, health checkbooks, debt collection and consequently an increase in deficits. We see a deficit, which is actually a situation, and not a surplus, as shown by these documents. It is therefore a responsibility to vote against the truth. And voting against means wanting to get on these tables a real situation that will be for citizens and citizens, not just the National Assembly, has shown what money has been spent on in the past. Surely each government has its own good and bad rewards, and so have you. In my client, we have often been able to commend the moves and decisions of your government. But we knew her many times, unfortunately too many times, and we also knew how to play. It is therefore necessary today to vote against the final account in order for citizens to get their money value in an orderly, perspective-oriented, development-oriented community.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Well, I think the discussions we're hearing today are quite interesting. If I understand correctly the intention of both the Secretary of State and the majority of the coalition, then this year we will also face the balance of the final account for 2007. Apparently, the coalition intended to repair the final account for 2007. It is a decision that you will make when you reject the proposal for a final account that leads precisely in this direction, as the Secretary of State has said. All I want to do is remind you that you are still in 2007. For two years you are still living in the previous period, and we expect, above all, measures for 2009. They're not there. However, you have devoted a great deal of attention and effort to the correction of events two years ago, which is very interesting and very significant. I had previously heard that this budget could have been very good, and the work of this coalition was only because the winds were favourable in the previous term. These winds are gone at the beginning of this government's mandate. No wind helps given how the pilots are doing, how the pilots are doing, what they are proposing. There are no measures. And every period in which we face different situations is dictated by those who have been given the opportunity and the right to act to make such proposals. And that's what we expect. In doing so, I would just like to point out that the 2007 budget is the first budget to have had trends in the right direction. That public spending did not increase in the structure of GDP, that budgetary revenues did not increase in the structure of GDP and that it started with spending savings on the expenditure side, that expenditure was reduced in the structure of GDP, and so much so, with all these measures that a 0.5% surplus was finally shown. I believe that for a coalition that is not ambitious, which does not dare to set ambitious goals, this is a major problem. And you have to do everything to actually make this story go in a different direction. The previous coalition has put on a favourable footing in Europe and the world to make our economic growth 3% higher than in Europe, as in a developed world such as the EU, in developed Member States. And I must say that this coalition has fully achieved this goal. Slovenia’s economic growth was three percentage points, at least three percentage points higher than economic growth in the European Union. This coalition, which is now working in an equally comparable European environment, does not have the nerve to write it down as a goal as a priority and to implement and adopt measures that would follow that objective. This is a huge lack of ambition. This is also a huge lack of insight into what measures should be proposed to achieve and maintain this objective. We can also see that there is actually a need to react in a much faster and much more effective way if we want the state budget to take place in the direction it was set up in 2004, when the government of the former government was adopted and then strictly implemented in this context, and also to the budgetary surplus of 2007 and 2008. I hope that as a coalition you will be able to use all those good trends, all those good measures that have been set up in the previous mandate and that we will achieve good growth and good results on the basis of quality measures and not on the basis of accounting corrections. I would only point out the inconsistency of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has been auditing the accounts for more than 10 years. At the time of the Minister of Gaspari there were also many violations in terms of budgetary periods. And the Court of Auditors has never found any error.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to explain some of the answers and arguments that we have heard today regarding EU funds. The point is that we are talking about the Court of Auditors' audit, which has shown that the use of European funds in 2007 was worse than in 2006. Both years are under the mandate of the previous government. This is not an obvious or a comparison of how much better it has been in the previous term of office compared to the previous term, or how much better it is now against the previous term of office. But the point is that some of the things that can alert us are all of us, not just the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, but especially it, that essential steps must be taken to improve the situation on several salaries of budget implementation, including drawing on European funds, which ultimately do not mean small amounts. To talk about the relatively poor use of cohesion and structural funds for the period 2007-2013, I would call it very bad in 2007 because this financial perspective has just begun, of course, it can be maintained. Unfortunately, however, it does not hold when we look at what happened in 2008. In 2008, there will be no and no demonstration of success, as we have heard today, or a demonstration of the success of this government, because the whole of 2008; perhaps a short period falls within the purview or the implementation of the budget under the previous government; therefore, by 2008 the absorption of the Cohesion Fund as a percentage of the inflows by the allocations has ended, we are now talking in full for the period 2004 to 2008, it is said that it is the whole of the funds, that total for the environment was 50 % poor and 68.9% for the transport sector. So these are numbers that actually indicate that something important needs to be changed in this area. However, when we are talking about drawing on funds for the 2007-2013 programming period, which is the so-called operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials, the pooling of funds in 2007 and 2008 was combined with the cohesion policy funds paid for those two years, rivers and letters, together with Slovenia and the European part 25%. It is said that, according to the previous year, the situation did not improve because there was 24.4% pumping in 2007. Okay, we could say 0.6%, which is a big leap given that it's all about 25% pumping. And the last. When we talk about the most drasticly poor utilization, about the operational programme for human resource development, the cohesion policy funds have been paid in 2007 and 2008, say and write, 3.3%, together for 2007 and 2008, and 6.5% for 2007. So, I have to say it's hard to talk about whether or not to repeat the claim that because 2007 was the start of a financial perspective, it was bad to draw on. Yes, I agree, everything is fine and fine, but the results of 2008 should already be seen. Today we have also heard the claim of one of the representatives of the former coalition: "Yes, you will see when we have an account for 2008, but it will get much better." One thing is much better. It's worse, not better. However, when we talk about environmental and transport infrastructure, the situation is actually a little bit better, with a total of 14.3% for 2007 - 34.1% and a total of 14.3% for 2007 and 2008. What does that mean? We will talk about this to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, which is why I would not lose my say, but would point out once again that when we talk about the presentation of individual budget items in the final account for 2005, 2006 and 2007, I have repeatedly appeared in the Court of Auditors' audit that it is a mistake to display expenditure and revenue in the general part of the budget when it comes to the taking over of individual credit commitments by institutions that are outside the budgetary elements of the country as a whole. The Agency for Rail Transport - payment, for example, to telecommunications beneficiaries, if I say so at home, was meant to make it very clear in the law that payment would be carried out, but on behalf of and on behalf of the national budget of the Slovenian Compensation Company. To this end, 10% of Telekom’s shares were transferred to the Court of Justice, but it was not said that the Court should pay the funds as a loan in the budget. If the Court and the Government of the Court were in charge of selling these shares, or if it had to buy them itself, then of course there would not be this credit relationship. The budget would be slightly larger, the budget, income and revenue, and the result would be zero, they would not talk about the debt of the budget. However, since the Government itself allowed the Court and did not reject its charging and presentation of the financial situation as an obligation, its own duty towards the Court and the payment of interest to the Court and the cost of credit, of course, there was a misrepresentation of the revenue and expenditure sides of the budget. I am very sorry, but we have already heard the Court of Auditors' instruction three times in a row, for which I hope that this government will take it into account and that this government will not allow itself to be able to afford a budget deficit that may be greater than it was planned, because we all know that we will have a budget deficit for this year because of the situation as it is, but it will be easy to show the revenue and expenditure of the deficit of any other debt, etc., fairly, transparent and clear. We will not excuse that the public must understand what the whole state budget is and the Court of Justice, the electricity economy, I don't know what else. There's a figo! Other cashiers operate independently and, therefore, it is right that the state budget, which is also considered to be a final account by the National Assembly, is clear and transparent. And here I have to say that this competition in who was bad or who was good, I don't think it's right. It is right to talk about what we can learn from past events that we will not make mistakes in the future. And I am sure that this government will follow and implement this teaching and this instruction of the Court of Auditors as it has been written. And there's one more thing. Talking about how the Court of Auditors will be more friendly to this Government and to this coalition is, at least, immoral and perverse. And for that reason, I think that the gentleman who allowed it should apologize to the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Kamnar, do you want a word as a proponent? [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded the general debate. Since the time for discussion is still there, I ask, does anyone else want to discuss it? Yes, I can see the hands, so I'm opening an application for further discussion. Nine reported, five minutes. Mr. Blackach, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u58	Say good-bye to everyone again! Any accounting exercise you will go into the future with regard to the final accounts for 2007 - 2008, I do not think it will be as current for you, for the reasons that I stated earlier in the debate, because the public will already see this as your final account. You can't change the essential facts. The final bill is what it is. Based on the contents, it was up to 31. 12. 2007 implemented. And this fact, none of your strong experts, which I expect you to hire, will be re-audited through the Court of Auditors, can change. Clearly, however, this pain is that the surplus has been realized after many years when we recorded the deficit in the final accounts, so great that you cannot go past it. The spirit of thinking in the new ruling coalition we were able to hear from one of the debaters yesterday when he said: Social Democrats will not be the Titanic, but we will do our best to ensure that instead of the Titanic we play Carpathian and save the people of this story. So, if we explain this story, the Social Democrats will, as I said yesterday, with a full steam of wood up against the icy mountain, which you know is waiting for you and you know exactly where you are going to go, and then you will say to the people, "Look, here's the SD Carpathia that's saving you, be happy to have at least a few percent of you survive." This is this story, and this is a way of thinking that you're obviously cultivating and that's actually worrying. For there went all things under the sea; all that was worth it went by the sea, and very little escaped them. What I told you yesterday, and what we're telling you today, is that you end up thinking this way and start acting proactively where you have all the options and you're expected to. The use of European funds in 2007 was lower than planned. Because the objective that was set was set very ambitious and because when it stood, it was not clear when and within what time frame the European Commission would confirm individual operational programmes. These are facts, but we cannot say that the operation in 2007 was bad, contrary. What is essential as far as the EU is concerned for the period 2007, 2008 and beyond 2013? It is essential that what happened in 2006 is that the then government did not give in to some SD votes, then to the LDS who were shouting, but what we are doing when we did not negotiate perspectives under the Luxembourg Presidency and reasoned reasonably as far as possible under the English Presidency in December 2006. That's what's important. And now it is your responsibility to bring this story to a successful conclusion, because if you rule for the next four years, most of the weight and most of the responsibility for the successful use of these resources on your part is unreasonable and irrational to talk to each other in 2007. By the way, the previous government adopted a series of operational measures in early 2005 that enabled Slovenia to successfully draw on the funds from the previous perspective from 2004 to 2006. These are also facts. If these measures were not taken, they could have an even worse situation in this area. In short, to conclude, 2007 was one of the more successful years, and it will be difficult to repeat. I think we will follow such a repetition only, given the data coming to the media for 2008, because the surplus is projected at 68 million euros. The former government, despite having a favourable position, rationalised public spending in all segments, reduced the number of employees in public administration, carried out tax reform, burdened the economy. The year 2007 was the first to reduce taxes, tax revenues on paid salaries, the rate of income from the previous 50 to 41, etc., not to mention. Therefore, it is wrong for those of you who, until you came into the MP's pants, claimed how well she was doing, now that you are in these pants, to claim that this was not the case. It's unworthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Collaborators and associates! Let me explain a little, from the higher cabin, what the situation is: the Titanic, on a global level, has already hit an icy mountain and now there is no point in blaming each other, why that icy mountain was there, because we know that this government is not to blame, nor is it to blame for the previous but global situation. I hope we can agree here. It's about realizing that we have to solve things as well as we can, and that's why it's like Carpathian. On the drawing-up of European Union funds. I would like to point out that in the end, it doesn't matter how much you negotiate, if you can't pump what you negotiate. Slovenia has therefore negotiated 10 for 2008 and has absorbed only 4. It would be better if we focused a little less energy on negotiations and a little more on realisation. In fact, it doesn't matter how much money we could hypothetically get, but how much we actually got it. And since we like to mention the English Presidency, I'm going to say in English, "It's about cash, mister, not about promises!" It's about money, not promises. There's not enough money. As a result, Slovenia was also a net payer in 2008 and sent 64 million euros more to Brussels than it received from Brussels. The theme of the macroeconomic situation in 2007 was also open. Of course, I respect the analysis, but you know that Slovenia is an open economy. Now, what is an open economy, I hope that if you are discussing, of course, you are perfectly clear. So we don't throw each other's balls anymore. An open economy exposed to good and bad weather at the global level. So, just as you are not the only one responsible for the economic crisis that started this summer, you are not the only one responsible for the positive results of 2007. Nevertheless, in 2007 the government could act counter-cyclically and save money through various measures so that today's crisis could be more effectively countered. A while ago, I read to you a portion of the Bible that proves that this basic principle has been known since Bible times. Saving in the time of the fat cows when the time of the dry cows will come. Instead of doing that, you ate all the fat cows cheerfully, ground all the grain, so that today when you needed the reserves you could create in 2007, the grain warehouses were empty and the cows were no longer, because they were all slaughtered. As far as the 2009 measures are concerned. You know very well that the measures are waiting for your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition to look at them, and I hope that I am also counting on this to be confirmed as soon as possible. I call on you to do this as soon as possible, because it is not an ambition to manage the economy, but a responsibility. It is not an ambition to show as high GDP statistics as possible, but it is a responsibility to create more equality in Slovenia, to promote solidarity and to go through the current problems together and confidently continue on the path of joint development.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I myself had no intention of calling in on, I will say, financial issues, even in the future I will not, but some discussions are going in such a direction that I feel that I am also obliged to do so. I have spent the last term of office of the President of the Government, and I will tell you this. Today, someone was talking about how Janša’s government was working in the time of the fat cows, how Janša’s government was actually doing well, and how everything changed on 21 September or 21 November, the country fell into a terrible crisis, and you are the good people that are saving it. Of course it's a completely black-and-white picture. The period of fat cows would by no means have been, at least not as it was, if Janša's government had not taken action and done what they were doing and carried out in the National Assembly those laws that have brought high economic growth, not only from the world markets, from the European markets, but also substantially accelerated it. Let me remind you that the result of all those measures, regulations, laws and so on is once more and even more economic growth in individual periods than it has been in the EU. You just ignore it and forget it. Next. You are now saying that at a time of high economic growth, it is necessary to save, to "spar" for bad times, and at the same time forget that in 2004 you left the Government with a deep budgetary minus, and today you are telling us that we have left you a small plus. You're telling us that we've left you with a small plus. However, this plus has been done for the first time since the state of Slovenia existed, and you have run it three mandates or what I know how many, we made one and in that one term we have done a plus. We should respect that, but I can see that this is not the case. Speaking of 2007 there remains the fact that it is a plus. It doesn't matter to me whether it's on item a or b, it's under the line and today we have it in front of us. For 2008 we do not know, at least we know about the situation on the day of the surrender of the Government, certainly a great plus. But what you did by the end of the year will be seen in the next report next year at the same point in the agenda. Those results took a lot of work. I worked hard with the ministers myself, the secretaries of the former government until midnight and after. I'm not gonna say it's just the work of our government. In the framework of the Development Partnership, we have met and, in particular, in the economic field, I must make it clear that many of the laws have been very well aligned with the Social Democrats, and not with the rest of the opposition at the time because they did not want to. We're offering you something like this today, and it's probably a really good deal yesterday. Of course, in this context, it must be made very clear that it would be significantly smarter than fighting, who left too much minus, I am talking about 2004 and your government's legacy; to look ahead. Now, whether you confirm it or not, it's ultimately your thing, we're just going to have another debate here on this and, of course, I'm going to present even more accurately all the numbers that I've had the opportunity to follow in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. So, one step back, don't just swindle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President. I had no intention of calling today because there are many more Members who know this matter well. But when I listened today, I stayed here on purpose to listen to each other. I just put myself in a very comfortable place as an observer. However, I am a Member, and I cannot go beyond some of the facts or speculations that have been made. And I'll try to answer very briefly. We hear, on the one hand, the defence of the former budget and the former alleged successes of the former government. On the other hand, criticism and above all we have 12 sides of the Court of Auditors, which is yet one body to be respected. The last time we discussed the Ombudsman's Report, it was often found that unfortunately in this country we do not know how to respect those institutions that may be more objective than one or the other political party to give an assessment, which should then be followed. Well, and if we read those 12 pages, we see that it's not as pink and it's not as nice as fellow members of the opposition are telling. The fact is, in the time of the previous government, things have happened that only today reflect the entire disastrous nature of those moves. I will not stop repeating some of the facts that unfortunately grieve the coastal public, precisely because of the poor business that gained its legitimacy in the time of the Janša government. If I think about what is happening in Luka Koper, in the Intereuropa or in other giants, and about the clad state of these state-owned or partly state-owned companies today, I cannot help but overlook the fact that this is the result of poor business and poor staffing, which has been extremely political. When I hear today how beautiful it was and what a beautiful legacy and heritage the previous government has left the current government, I'm kind of laughing. You know, these data will still prove that the previous business was actually very problematic. When Luke is in charge of the 500 index today, and when Intereuropi is looking forward to a quick sale to at least partially survive, I ask myself: Where was the Government when it decided on the presidents of the administrations, who, of course, had the right membership card in their pocket, and then left this legacy to the new government, who had to save and make sure that it did not irritate the other parties too? It is true that if we are a little self-critical, the first to admit certain success to the previous government was our prime minister. And in his initial speech. Of course, the opposition will consistently refer to this benevolent assessment made by the prime minister, probably from political correctness, but probably he did not really know what the real situation was. This reality comes today. And the fact is that we Members are obliged, like all policies, to listen to those institutions that are designated and responsible for this, to tell us exactly how things are. And 12 pages of the Court of Auditors is the lacquer paper of this state. So, let's stop fooling around and play with these themes and data like it's a pingpong table. Of course, we will not come to the end because there are two interpretations, but the fact is that the truth is only one. We'll have to think about that too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I agree that it is necessary to save when a person has one. We also saved in the previous term. We have reduced the share of public spending in the DP, the number of employees in the public administration has decreased, and yet we have implemented a number of measures that have reduced the public financial deficit. Out of 600 million in 2004, 170 and a few million were surpluses. In short, there was a difference of €700 million during this period, with a tax reform carried out in 2006 that brought some €1.2 billion to the economy and individuals. However, despite this failure, the first drawback, which was only due to the correction of the tax law of the former Minister, the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, came into the state budget of about 1.2 billion less. These are the funds that could be saved if they left tax laws the way they were. However, in the light of the measures you are taking, according to the speed at which you decide, it is right that we have left these funds in the economy and in the case of natural persons, because you obviously need someone who saves for you and you are the one who will then be able to share. You're lucky! And unsettled appetites. You want everyone to save for you and then share. When we talked earlier about Telekom and returning, I think it's right that those who paid for this network get their money back, because if the company sells and that's your purpose, it's best to get some of those who have invested it. And not just those who happened to be in management positions and in the functions of authority, so that they could do it in their own way. I think it is right that he is not the only heir to Telekom's good business just, I don't know, to a certain parliamentary group or to a group that will be involved in this and carry out this property process, as it appears. See, there is also a comparison between the period, such as the Ministry of Gaspari and Bajuk. Among the government he led, say, Mr Drnovšek and Vlado, led by Janez Janša. During both periods, economic growth was high. In both periods, inflation was also about the same. So these macroeconomic conditions are roughly the same, balanced. However, only in the period of the previous government did surplus occur, while deficits were expressed in the period of the previous governments. We have also witnessed numerous sessions here. Remember the one who took a slightly longer kilometer to accept the budgets of the governments of Mr Ropa, Drnovsk, with the extremely low public financial deficit and the thousands of cameras at the door. And we got the final bill for those years three, four years later, with a deficit that was three times higher than it was written in the budget. Unbelievable! And this can certainly be confirmed by Mrs Kamnareva, who also at that time performed certain accounting functions or financial functions in the context of the policy at the time. I think there's something else I need to find out. Despite all these rationalisations, reductions, as well as lower taxation and reduction of the public financial deficit, the previous period was also a period of very large investments. There was no period before, it could also be your fellow Member from the Business and Enterprise Certificate, which would be so rich with investments. Despite all this saving, it has become an extremely good basis for economic growth. I must say that what we now expect is only measures to maintain this trend of high growth, high investment in 2009, 2010 and the following years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Mencinger.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u68	Your Honor! I must admit that I am concerned about the transfer of some fellow Members when they spoke a month ago in the same room, that there is no recession, there is no crisis and there is no other story. We as a congregation are practically set up for three months and it rules for two months. I think it's here, to put it mildly, to generalize things very unfair and questionable. The Court of Auditors gave its results, and these are the facts. Through these facts, we cannot, except through debates, and I think that these debates are necessary. The report as such is very worrying. Let me say that the assessment prepared for 2008 is even worse. The situation isn't even a little good. However, what is even worrying is the fact that European funds are being drawn up. Let me say that I agree here with my colleague Kampush and the other mayors, who can also be pointed out and highlighted on specific occasions projects that have been allocated according to the "your-our" principle. Here, I think, politics has played out its story, which is by no means good. Let me just point out two stories. The first is the regulation of watercourses and these funds which are intended to regulate watercourses when the state money went into a two-thirds amount to a specific municipality. All other Slovenia, however, has very serious problems in these storms and traps. This thing doesn't seem very transparent. The next thing is the award of the concession to the Sava hydroelectric power plant. This is where politics got very involved and negotiated. We'll probably talk about this story in the coming days. It is therefore necessary to establish and lay the foundations for the preparation of the 2009 budget rebalancing. Because if we don't have a real state of affairs, they're going to be the same foundation as the Bohinian cheese, and they're not going to be good for any building. I therefore support those who require the revision of individual projects. I also support the decision to establish the coordination of the group, which will be reviewed in particular through ministries, at the level of secretaries. This is the only way that we will actually be able to draw up the 2009 budget rebalancing. In addition, I strongly support the efforts of some ministries to simplify these things, to provide some funds as I am ahead of these projects, and to actually re-rank projects as such. And what is most important is that some assessment of the project's readiness as such can be made, not that we can apply for political support and then the project did not go through all of this and suddenly there is that some of these funds that could be targeted at concrete, better projects have not been adequately funded. In addition, I should say that it will actually be necessary to approach and assist in the administrative training of those who apply, to precisely lay down budgetary rules and to ensure somehow the competence of applicants. In the light of what I have said and also of the discussions before me, let me say that I will not support the 2007 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that for what I have heard from some opposition Members today, there is a very beautiful, vivid word, the word "realitätsverlust", a loss of sense of reality. On the other hand, your colleagues will repeat your truth until you fail. Today, the Secretary of State has made the facts very clear and vivid. And you will be [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Do you mind if I finish and say what I want to say, because I listened to you too. So you will repeat your truth, which has nothing to do with the facts. There is a key difference between us: you evaluate your legacy so, we judge it differently. I must say, I do not even agree with the current Prime Minister of the Government, who has assessed your legacy differently. I think your legacy is bad. And this is where we come from today. You're talking about record economic growth. Ever since this term began, you've been repeating your mantra. Repeat to the citizens and citizens, you have forgotten to tell them what they had since this record economic growth. And your attitude towards the Court of Auditors is significant and, in fact, understandable. For your President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, has made it clear and publicly known what his attitude is to the Court of Auditors when the Court of Auditors asked Mr Podobnik to step down. The former Prime Minister simply ignored the call, he was not interested. He almost didn't tell the Court of Auditors to deal with anything other than these things. Mr Tanko said earlier that we are still living in 2007. Believe me, if we're going to fight back in the past few years, your legacy will follow us for a long time. Mr. Visjak, who is very loud these days, you said, "Slovenia is not and will not be in recession." So it's not and it won't be in crisis. Then I ask you, why are we taking anti-crisis measures in the National Assembly? Why did the presidents of the political parties agree yesterday to cooperate during the period of crisis? Why do you keep criticizing us in the National Assembly that we are too slow to take action before the crisis is coming? One more thing. Mr. Chernač, you spoke of the inconsistence of some who, before they were not yet in their pants, praised your government, but now to criticize it. While I was still in the non-missary wing, but now I am in the sentinel pants, I have criticized your government, because I think that it was doing bad, not all was bad; what was good was also good; but your legacy is, in my humble opinion, bad and from here we are starting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you very much. It is not necessary for everyone I speak of to be recognized immediately, as a result of which I have deliberately talked about the pants of a Member and not the wings of a Member. But it's interesting that you recognized yourself in those words, so I have to say that I'm surprised. But I was talking about someone else. I have talked about those who have not yet spoken publicly about this, how many positive measures have been taken for the Slovenian trade in the previous term, and when he now has the opportunity to influence these decisions himself, it does not help to decide on these positive measures, but opposes them. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u73	Were you also appointed, Mr. Vizjak?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u74	The honourable Member is making a fool out of her ignorance. That's interesting. In view of the fact that we are not in recession and I deeply hope to say that if there were measures and not even in recession, these are not my words, these are the words of the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis of Mr Vaslet. [[...]] That's what he says in his latest predictions. So you don't have to quote me, quote him if you have a problem with me. The recession is a poem, which is also technically defined and Slovenia, despite the latest forecasts, not only of domestic analytical services, but also of international institutions, will not record negative economic growth at the time of its arrival or in 2009. He won't. Let's hope so. But I am increasingly doubting that myself. Why? Because this situation depends on government actions that are not and are not. Or they're on the level of, like, family budget resolution. That's what they say, with these cappuccinos, etc. You know, that's not gonna solve public finances. This can be an example, it can be a symbolic gesture, but it certainly cannot have a significant impact on the country’s economic or recessional movements. And, honourable Member, I repeat to you again that the recession is the same as the crisis. That's not true. That's just not true. The crisis is not reading recession or recession is reading crisis. That's not true. Also reducing growth, economic growth is a worrying situation, and we can call it a crisis, and it is not yet a recession. And as a result, please, you do not have to trust me and work from these policy terms, believe the analytical services that you are, because this is the so-called Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, believe them, read their reports, their assessments and leave me alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you. Yes, I have a reply to Mrs. Župevc, Mr. Tanko. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you very much! Here, among other things, we also face the use of terminology, because some who comment on economic categories simply do not master basic terms and on the basis of these flawed findings also make wrong conclusions. See, we and I did not use in my own debate the data that our professional services would produce in a kitchen, as we witnessed in the previous term when your Member did so. The data referred to here are data from the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as regards export growth, which was twofold in 2007 and also for 2008. As regards economic growth, these are the data of Umarja and also of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the official institutions that the State has to plan all projects and projections. The data from Banka Slovenije also speak exactly what I am talking about. If you look at the Employment Office website you will find that unemployment almost halved from this high economic growth, it fell by 30,000 from, I don't know, 80, 75,000. Unemployment has dropped to less than 60,000 or 50,000 and so on. In short, all this information is available to you. And to say that citizens had nothing to do with it is actually an insult to these official institutes which publish this data. I doubt that you will also achieve a balance in Umar for the 2007 evaluation data and at the Statistical Office and at the Employment Institute. And it is also interesting to listen to you from the parliamentary benches when you, by the way, rebalance and relavitize your Prime Minister's statements. I think that the Prime Minister of the Government meant this honestly that, for what he said several times about this speaker, he said what they advised him smarter than he did. And I don't think the things he's saying here just because of protocol and money. These statements must also have some basis and some salt. I highly recommend that you also rely on some official information for statements that you can spend on here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Clown, there's no replica to the replica. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we did not advertise in this debate today, nor did we have any intention, but I see that we have made a unique introduction to the partnership: a lot of thunder, a little rain, and a lot of figs in the pocket. What's this all about? From the pre-Last snow, we are talking about 2007 and we have made a first-class political spectacle and argument. I'm not adding anything essential to that. I will just say that I object to this 2007 budget approval for one simple principle reason that we must learn to respect the rules that we have set for ourselves in this country. If something is said by the Court of Auditors that this has a certain weight, if the Constitutional Court says so, it is also that these cases are simply not commented on, but simply carried out. We're talking about two governments. I must say that the previous government was my government, just as this government is now my government, is the Slovenian government and everyone in its own time is trying to maximize the benefits and benefits of it. What is more successful, what is less, and what quality is judged by voters every four years? I also called because there is a lot of debate on how to draw on European funds. Some know the story on a theoretical basis and others on a very practical level, what are our essential substantive problems. The key problems are that we are running out of time and that we were all looking forward to a story together relatively unprepared, especially because it was a new story. This is not an obvious part of these things, which we are not doing well in years - because N plus two is valid, so after 2013, we will have two more years to finish this story. Because I am running a cohesion project worth EUR 25 million and because the problems are enough every day, I will only tell you some of the most important. All those congregations that will do so in a year or two, they must save not only today but yesterday. If the municipality is expecting a cohesion project with a financial downturn, then it's a major disaster. All the congregations and ministries that will handle this need to work on land today. It is necessary to obtain a service or land to be redeemed. We need to work on the planning. There are also many stories that are completely wrong to order projects worth between half a million and a million euros to be allocated for the cohesion role, and then these projects cannot be implemented in practice and the municipality, instead of working on the red book as originally set out, decide on the yellow book and what half a million euro funds went into the requested drawer. There were some mistakes at the beginning of the ministry, too. It's mostly a story of invitations to tender. What happened to us on the invitations to tender - knowledge was limited, in Slovenia we set up court houses that can design, and yard houses that prepare invitations. Of course, the result is little success for a large number of municipalities. Only revisions to one documentation, which can be completed within an hour or two, cost the municipal budgets of five or ten thousand euros. What else does it matter? That the State must be aware that there is not enough money to use these projects in the municipalities and that it must also consider solutions that can be such that the missing funds can also be provided by the State and can also be translated as co-owner for a certain period. We're building projects that will serve our citizens for 80, 100 years. And there's no problem if we pay them back in the next few years. These are the specific problems relating to the use of funds and are not at any stage political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Look, here we are faced with the fact that politics wants something that the Court of Auditors has neither proposed nor emerged from their audit report. The Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservation and did not require a response report. This made it quite clear that the Court of Auditors has also identified itself to this final account. But here we are witnessing that politics wants to make a different story out of it and in some way is looking for a demon in it. And that means that, contrary to talking about respect for the profession and all that, politics will make a move that goes beyond all these grounds. And that's not right. And there's one more thing. Here, for example, we received criticism and attacks on non-economic behaviour, and I do not know what else is being done by Ambassador Breda Pečan, who earned a negative opinion in 2006 when she sold municipal property in Izola at home. In four cases, she sold a real estate totalling 659 and several thousand tolars, which is two million 750 thousand euros without making a valuation. That's what you call it. And this is actually the use and the commentator who would like to make a reservation without a response report to the question of the question, and to instigate it and in any way complicate it. When we receive some lessons from the Social Democrats in terms of negotiations, there is also a saying that says, "Clean or sweep before your threshold first." And I do not express my opinion here, I am reading the 2006 Court of Auditors report in the municipality of Izola when the responsible person was Mrs Pečanova and the electorates in this municipality have also said theirs and so is the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u82	Firstly, Mr Vice-President, I think that we should stop our colleague, because at least what he is, it was not a debate on the revision of the business or the management of immovable property in the municipality of Izola, but a debate is under way on the revision or the final account of the state budget. The second thing you'd like to say about what you said earlier is that the voters in Isola have not ruled on the basis of my mayorship, but the court has ruled. And you know it, Mr. Visac. The third thing is, I didn't accuse anyone, and I didn't claim to have done anything wrong. All I said was that the revenue and expenditure shown and the indebtedness of the state budget were in a different way than was recorded in the Public Finance Act. So, Mr Vizjak, there was no talk of the need to change the budget, there was no talk of the need to change the final budget account, there was no talk of the government acting uneconomically, there was talk of completely different things. I also stressed that the Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservation. But I used the word "le." Because some of the things that are in this final account and in this budget for 2007 would deserve a stronger assessment. But I have to say that, like you, you're acting tasteless and out of place, you've spoken now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is the report of the 2007 Supervisory Board of Agricultural Lands and Lands of the Republic of Slovenia. The report was submitted for consideration by the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Maria Oswald, President of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u84	Nice greetings to the President and to all Members and Members and to all those present! The Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to report at least once a year to the National Assembly on its work. By the end of last year, the report had already been transmitted to the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly and to this body at the request of the Council of State. Following the decision of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Fund services sent a written explanation and answers and questions to the Committee on Agriculture. In 2007, the Supervisory Committee pursued the agricultural policy objectives of leasing agricultural land and selling and purchasing land by management as a matter of priority and project. We behaved as good masters and followed the recommendations on meetings. The meetings of the Council and the Supervisory Board amounted to €100 and €140 net for the meeting, while we did all the project work volunteering. Unlike high-level meetings in state-owned companies, our meetings are only symbolic. According to a computer application that allows exploration of agricultural land areas in the management of the fund, on which graphic agricultural land use units are drawn, we found that some more than 11,000 hectares of land in the operation of the fund were not leased. With the project approach and the multiple treatment of the free area issue, the Supervisory Committee has achieved that the task of eliminating the free area has been classified as the priorities of the Fund. Thus, the supervisory committees and the services of the Fund received subsidies from individual administrations and parcels from individuals in registered Greeks who handled land owned by the Republic of Slovenia for them and did not have any lease agreements with the Fund for these land. At the end of 2007, a total area of 3400 hectares was available for the purchase of unbundled surfaces with embroidered Greeks. The Supervisory Board monitored the information on the sale of parcels on the left side of the Dragonje river by the municipality of Buje. The Fund’s management acted in accordance with the legal opinion of its legal representative and then coordinated all its activities with the relevant authorities, including the State Defence Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With regard to the Court of Auditors’ call for the allocation of revenue surpluses over expenditure, the Fund also submitted to the Government a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Fund Act. The Government has allocated part of the resources from the surplus of revenue over compensation expenditure under Article 72 ZDena part for the purpose of financing the planned actions under the programmes adopted. The Fund’s Internal Audit Service and the independent audit service have found that the Fund has not yet established initial records of the underlying assets and that they are not harmonised in nature. We also note that the real estate register has been underestimated several times and it has been recommended to establish control or to prevent the sale of underlying assets below the book value and to take into account the estimated market value in the sale. It was also recommended that agromeliaration works in the area of agricultural land may only be carried out in the event of an increase in the value of land. In the area of the forestry sector, at the recommendation of our Committee and its work plan in 2007, the Fund's internal audit service approached the more effective implementation of forest sector control and proposed recommendations to address the shortcomings. Monitoring of the forestry sector, monitoring methodologies for the valuation of concession fees and proposals for the withdrawal of concessions are difficult to verify due to lack of personnel in the forestry sector by the Supervisory Board. Due to the human resources poor forestry sector, the Fund performs the bulk of the tasks of the Slovenian Forestry Institute. Revenue from concession activities which, according to the current methodology, represent revenue for the Fund has increased over the last three years after the cubic meter. In 2007, however, the problems are increased labour costs, poor classification, lower cuts and reduced forest yields due to returns according to Zden. The Fund has difficulties in purchasing real estate due to overestimation on the market. Compared to the valuations, the real estate in the offers is sometimes overestimated several times. In these cases, the Purchase Fund shall not be reported to contribute in this way to the revaluation of property prices. Problems also arise in border areas and areas of abandoned agricultural activities. Therefore, we are once again proposing to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the National Assembly to examine the possibility of [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The general conclusion of the Supervisory Board is that the existing rules in some parts are obsolete, defective, ineffective. [[...]] We therefore remind the competent authorities of the shortcomings of the existing legislation and of the consequences only in the work where the rules are inadequate to achieve greater efficiency in the planning of agricultural policy and economic effects, which is supposed to represent the mission of the Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you. The report was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother and drafted a proposal for a decision. I give the floor to Mr Franz Bogovic, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u86	Nice greeting, Honourable Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Honourable Director, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Ten. 12. We examined the Committee in detail and took note of the report of the Monitoring Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands. Fortunately, there is more time on the committee to explain, so after extensive explanation given by the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee responsible for the fund and also with the representatives of the Ministry, we have found that the year behind us was in line with the year when good was done in a wide range of areas. Therefore, we also then assessed that the work was good, that the Supervisory Committee had certainly done its important work here. In addition to these good points, which are mainly in the area of agricultural areas, a broad debate has been opened between the members of the committee themselves, and some shortcomings have also been highlighted in this part. Let me also point out those who are in the report. On the one hand, it is an assessment that there is still a lot to be done in the forestry work. A similar opinion is the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, who says they will pay more attention to this area in the future. It also exposed the area of transfer of building land to municipalities where this was amended by amending the Fund Act. And also the recommendations go in this direction so that this amendment of the Fund Act, which reflects this right to return building land to municipalities that have been like this since 2000, is said to correct this by amending the Fund Act. We have also found that it is mainly a rural exhaustion in this part to benefit from rural roads, but now it is available to building land through a consulting and management company. On the other hand, there is no part of the concession fee to the municipal budgets. Finally, the proposed conclusions go in this direction and the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture also agreed. I may return once again to the area of forests, where a number of questions have been raised, and finally to questions from one of the members, Mr Bukovnik, and also in writing, which we have also received written answers from the Fund at the end of the year. In this part, the debate went this way, which is actually very difficult to control over those forests. Here was also the word that it is in some way a Taiwanation of state forests and that our management is significantly worse than in any other country, or also in the area of those forests owned by the Roman Catholic Church. In this part, it also recommended that as many bids as possible should be sought in the future in order to actually reach comparable prices. Furthermore, it was further expressed that more will have to be done in the area of halting the cultivation of agricultural areas, that as soon as possible it is necessary to come to the final knowledge of how much land we need for one of the primary purposes of the Fund, to close denationalisation, so that more can be done to reach this data. It has also been pointed out that the function of the Fund should also be brought into the role of that agricultural forest manager, which could also allow for the function of land policy in agriculture, where we have many farms that are small and could also be larger with the help of the Fund. We have come to the conclusion that this report should be placed on the agenda of the National Assembly. And you also have two conclusions that we support in the background, which are said to be amended by the Law on Public Funds and also by the Law on Environmental Protection, which gives this opportunity to share concessions and to return these building sites to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. The Government's position will be presented by the Secretary of State of Mag. Sonja Bukovec. Mrs. Bukovec, please come to the phone booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, welcome on my behalf as well. At the Ministry we also carefully reviewed the report of the Fund for Agricultural Lands. The recommendations of the Supervisory Board will also be followed up this year. We are aware that it is necessary to approach or have already joined in the preparation of the amendment to the Agricultural Land Fund Act. We plan that the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands will be amended, prepared and sent to the government in June, so that you can decide in the autumn on the amendments already in Parliament. The substantive amendments to this Act should relate in particular to the following: the method and procedure for dividing concessions from State forests between the Fund and the municipalities should be laid down; the legal possibility should be provided for the execution of revenue surpluses over the expenditure of the Fund under the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or for the purpose and the amount of use of the surplus created to be determined in the context of the financial plan and the fund programme approved each year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the Fund’s revenue would also allow for the objective of its activities. Furthermore, in order to improve the operation of the Fund, it is also necessary to change or enable the description of ownership into a land book based on the law itself. This point provides that the registration of the ownership rights of the Republic of Slovenia under the law would significantly simplify or accelerate the procedures. The law now in force requires the signature of the contract or the corresponding land book ownership. The same law could contain the same principle when it comes to transfers from the fund to the municipality under other rules: the Public Funds Act, the Law on the Re-establishment of the Agrarian Community, the Law on the Fund. In these cases, the transfer contract is necessary at the moment due to the entry of property rights into the land book, regardless of the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia the municipalities have already become owners under the law. The proposal for this amendment of the law has also been recorded in the Court of Auditors’ response report and will be joined. The 4th point, which is important for the better functioning of the Fund and also for the completion of the transfer of building land to municipalities under the criteria of Article 57 of the Public Funds Act, is proposed in this part to reintroduce the criteria already in force in Article 57 of the Public Funds Act. This compensation was adopted in July 2008 by the Law on Public Funds, which is Article 55, which reduced the volume of building land to be transferred by the State to the municipalities. The amendments to the law should also define public interest more precisely, and this legal solution could also allow for the free transfer of additional building land to municipalities, the conclusion of unpaid building rights contracts and the conclusion of free services and agreements in favour of municipalities in cases where public interest is pursued, for example for the purpose of building public infrastructure, health facilities, education and the like. Although such a legal solution already requires the adoption in 2007 of the Real Estate Act of the State, the Provinces and the Communities. This is Article 23 of this Act, which is insufficiently precise in defining the concept of public interest. We believe that the changes already being prepared at the Ministry and, as it is said, the changes to the law will be transmitted to the government in June, so that these changes will also allow and some of those critical points, which have also been mentioned in the report of the Supervisory Committee, to be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u90	The Fund for Agricultural Lands was established to manage and dispose of agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The basic principle and basic guide were to operate as a good master to manage these agricultural land, to lease land, and also to grant a forest concession in the past. So it's an important task. We are all aware of the Fund's task as regards purchases, sales, swaps of agricultural land that lie within state complexes, thus ensuring a prudent rounding of the surfaces and improving the specific structure of agricultural land. In accordance with the rules on denationalisation, the Fund is also committed to returning agricultural land and forests or to replacing land to previous owners. From this we see that this is a very complex, difficult task. After all, in the management of the fund is about a tenth of the area of Slovenia, about an eighth of the area, which represents 220,000 hectares of forests and those 50, 60,000 hectares of agricultural areas. This is a very difficult and responsible task. We estimate that progress has been made in line with work. However, we also assess that there are still a number of things to be done in some segments. The assessment is also that the Fund is under-executing the task and function of promoting regional development. We know that we do not have the landscapes that we will probably not have them for another year, but that these lands are all over Slovenia, so it would be right for this function to be more realized and also an opportunity and it will probably be necessary to do so through the municipalities in the future. In this part, I think there's something else that needs to be done. That is why certain legislative changes are also needed, and this call for amendments was also adopted by the Committee on Agriculture in today's proposed conclusions, where the National Assembly of the Government proposes that a new law on public funds be drawn up immediately and that the concession act on the award of State forest concessions be aligned with the law on environmental protection. In the SLS Group, we will support the proposed decisions because in the first decision it is the transfer of property to municipalities and in the second that part of the payment for concessions belongs to municipalities. One of the areas we believe should be addressed in an organised manner is the area of agricultural land cultivation. More agri-technical and other measures would probably need to be taken here to this end, so that these lands do not also grow and that there will be as many agricultural areas as possible in the future. We also estimate that too little has been done in recent years or at this time in order to use the fund as a tool to actually round up Slovenian farms. In Slovenia we have a very small land estate, scattered, and in recent years we can see that on a number of farms, also through successful candidateing for European funds, some technological breakthroughs have succeeded, including the increase of farms. I think that in this part, where possible, even through the Fund, this policy should be followed and followed in this direction. At times, even the opposite is happening to us today that farms that have been equipped, which have increased production, are losing their agricultural land at the expense of changing the destination of land, where, above all, there are many surfaces. Here we think that these matters should be followed well and there is an opportunity for more to be done within the Fund. Similarly, we estimate that 50 to 100 hectares of forests would mean very much to a particular mountain hill farm, which would maintain its population in these areas, and that concessionaires with these lands would be significantly less deprived of a variety of farms, while the family would also be allowed to live and settle in Slovenia in the hill region. In this area, we think there is more to be done. We are not merely giving this criticism of harmony, but I think that we are all present here together, such a fund, government, parliament, those who are responsible for doing what we do in this area and also helping to ensure that this negative trend does not continue in demographically threatened areas. The exercise of pre-emptive rights in the purchase of agricultural land is also very problematic. According to popular information, in recent years around 60% of agricultural areas have been sold or donated by gift contracts. It's an act of law. In such a way, this order, in which farmers would have the advantage, the Fund thus comes later in line, but we think that these are very important reasons, which would necessarily require that the amended Law on Agricultural Lands, which, unfortunately, I have not seen in this year's programme of the Government and Parliament, should come as soon as possible in this House. The specific area that I would like to point out once again here is the area of forestry. On the committee itself, I must say that I was a little bit surprised that some Members had already come very well prepared, including with many oral, written questions and pointed to a segment that I think is going to need to pay a lot of attention to immediately. Hard words were already said about the tachuniation of forests. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have also been given a little more training in this area after the meeting of this committee and have come to similar conclusions that forests in the management of the Fund are not well managed by state forests and that much more income in the Fund and the implementation of the policy that the Fund owes it to carry out in this area. The comparisons that were made on the committee itself, oh, I don't know, a 5-fold lower yield from our forests than the Austrians have, a few times lower yields than the Roman Catholic Church manages to recover from its property, have given us a lot of thought. And as I said before, we've been given a little training here and getting some data. There's some data inside the report itself, on different sides, but when you get this thing into a table and you get very interesting conclusions through calculations. Last year or 2007 we are talking about, in Slovenian forests owned by the state, as we see in the report, a million 81,000 cubic metres of wood and the realisation of these forests for the fund was €6 million, which means €5.6 per cubic metre of wood that fell from the state forests. When we tried to figure out the principle of how to get this concession fee, we see that the matter begins with the value of the wood on the truck that is being determined and reported by the concessionaires, not by someone who controls them, but by concessionaries. And we see from this revenue that last year this value was some good 40 million euros, which means that the cubic metre of this wood was on the road about 38 euros per cubic metre. Those of us who own forests know that in 2007, probably the one who managed their timber sold it differently and sold it more on average, because around here there was the price of trees in that year. The costs of cutting, assembly and other costs shall be deducted from this price for concessionaires. All of this comes to EUR 25.7, so the wood in the pond is estimated at 12 euros, including investment in cultivation, road trains, which is again deducted by another €6.9 and reached the final figure, that is €5.6 per cubic metre of this wood. Out of this million cubicles, it is estimated that there may be more than a dozen euros per cubic dollar and very simple mathematics, each euro is one million, each euro would be one million. Many of the warnings that came came came in this direction were that there was something urgent to be done in this area. We are also proposing a solution that I think goes in this direction, that there will be no more hectares of quality forests, which are state forests, compressed forests in the future in the concessionaire's hands only for an average of €27 per hectare per year, but to do something about it. I think that this country is already paying for its work in the framework of the Institute for Forests, where there are 700 employees of experts who have received many praises, as regards the management of Slovenian forests, that we have forests in good condition. Regrettably, these foresters have only this right in state forests to see what is in the forest in the end, how this forest could be managed, and to take measures. As for cutting and controlling cuts, quality, and this matter ends when the hammer hits the tree and burns this wood, which then goes into the urea. I welcome what the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has said that this is an area that needs many controls. I want us to get this conclusion as soon as possible, which we have not yet received, to see how it went on. However, I think that this is an area where, even in Slovenia, with the careful management of state property, more can be obtained from the state treasury, while at the same time more can be done in the countryside, more can be done with land-based measures, thereby improving agriculture in this part. I'm interested in today's debate and the appeals that will leave this city. I hope that this area will be settled because I think that after the agricultural sector has settled to some extent, it is said that agricultural areas have been arranged that a thorough review and a thorough intervention in the field of forestry are essential without any new forestry being needed. These 700 foresters are very willing to do this work and their professional work will be better evaluated than today's evaluated work by those who manage this wood and sell wood to subsidiaries where this wood is being distributed and then this price comes to those who are managing it. These are bad words, but I think that those of us who live in the countryside, we face it every day, and it is also right to talk about it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you! Greetings to the First Supervisor of the Fund, the Director, the Assistant Secretary and the Secretary of State, the representatives of the Ministry, and all of you! We are talking about an extremely important topic and I am pleased that we have put the matter on the Committee on Agriculture and have cooked it as we have, especially because we can all draw a number of positive conclusions and messages together. Above all, because I see that this will be one of the committees where there will be at least ideological differences and the greatest search for constructive and professional solutions. The facts are very simple. The Fund Act was passed a long time ago, in times that were slightly different. It is now necessary to listen to the challenges of modern times. The situation under the Fund is definitely improving and progressing. The Supervisory Committee has also focused most of its report on the right topics. Among them, I point out, above all, that there is also a beginning of control on the ground as to how the land owned by the State is actually treated. And I want it to be as I will say further about the forests that the forests of the fund are the best and the most orderly forests. But there's another story about what the ransom is and what it takes for the country in this story. In other areas, however, the Supervisory Committee has been corrected to the extent that it is possible to do so because there is no single forester in the Supervisory Committee and there is one in the Fund's world, and it has certainly neglected this area and will pay more attention in the coming months and years to this area, also on the basis of the Committee's debate and today's debate. And legislation needs to be amended in many of these areas. I must say that we have met with Mrs State Secretary, the Minister, including the director of the Directorate, and matters and reflections are going in the right direction. And we will certainly find solutions that will be good for the country, the province, the congregations, and not least for all our citizens and citizens. It also seems to me that, on the one hand, we are imposing an agreement to generate as much income as possible, we are committed to managing it, and when we create this surplus of resources, we are happy to take them away and put them in a common, opaque bag called the state budget. The Fund must also continue to have the possibility of having access to these funds and to specific strategic management, whatever it may be, and we will commit it to this in the National Assembly. As for the willingness to cooperate with local communities, the willingness to talk and the agreement, I need to assess positively, sit down and try to agree and find maximum solutions within the framework of legislation. That thing that we specifically pointed out on the committee, and it was a hot topic and it's still today, was forestry. And there's more to that than that. In Slovenia, there are 224,000 hectares of economic forests managed by the state, on its behalf and on its behalf by the Fund of Agricultural Forests. However, it is also important to note here the first problem. However, we have some so-called free forests for which ownership has not yet been fully determined after the negligence of the rule of law. One of the tasks of the State and the Fund will be to book these lands to the right owner, to the country, to sign concessions there, and to rule with them. It was felt that the public economic service, partly justified and partly unjustifiable, was also avoiding active interventions in these forests, which alone do not have the right owner on paper, but in fact are forests that will belong to our country in one way or another. Every year we cut one million cubic meters and from this are the first concrete findings, Slovenia is rich in forests, our growth increases year after year and Slovenians do not cut down what they could cut. One of the objectives we are thinking about in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that this intervention, and certainly the ransom, must be increased and that situation in the environment will not be affected in any way. I have already mentioned good governance in these state forests. It should then be stressed that we expect these free areas to be on call as soon as possible. I will repeat the thought of my speaker, one euro more per cubic meter means one million more revenue in the state budget or somewhere else, which is an important number. But we have a big problem, a big dilemma as to how the forestry service is organised in Slovenia. It may therefore surprise me that there is no representative or director of the Directorate for Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries, who is primarily responsible for regulating this area in this country and would also be the first to offer us concrete arrangements, such as objectives, visions and why the situation is the same as it is. We have detected a major problem and the dilemma is that we have two forestry services in this country. One by the Institute for the Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, and in some ways by force of the situation, we also establish a parallel service at the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. Of course, there is certainly no need for this. And the times that make us rationalize require this thought. What are the facts? In Slovenia we have about 700 foresters who are on the ground every day. Those matters relating to the forestry service must be fully taken over by the public forestry service, stand behind these solutions and also answer. But I have to say that I'm on one side of public forestry service, and on the other hand, I'm a critic. Ladies and gentlemen working there have some reserves to cover some important areas in this country. One is that of nature-protection, the other is the taking over of certain tasks for the state and the fund, perhaps even a slight. And they're human resources, technical and professionally sure as hell a piece of it. One of the key points would be to take advantage of the public health service we have in full. Then there are also some outstanding issues that have led to the constant pressures of local communities and the requirement to pay the rent after repairing the forest and other roads involved. This is certainly in place, and it is right to think that 30% of this concession, created in the area and area of local communities, is going back, especially for forest care, and then for roads, and that Slovenians, in winters like this, stop moaning about what all winter has caused on the roads. Put your hand on your heart, this winter has destroyed especially those roads that were previously catastrophically bad. We must be aware that we will no longer drive with wagons and mini-trucks of wood. In this country it is necessary to build roads that withstand 8-ton base pressure and bridges 30 tonnes, and then the situation in this area will be better. We also need funds and money in local communities as well as in the country. It may have seemed after this debate on the Committee that the forest economies are poor masters, and we were next to them, perhaps I myself personally, only on a fraction of this segment is relatively critical. Many discussions and interviews have shown that forest economies are exploiting the rules that we have set for them, and this is our responsibility. But they are good masters and work within their power. And I was also pleased with the statements of their union, where workers wrote down - employees have about a thousand workers - that they are satisfied with the situation in these companies. This is at a time when everyone criticises us, spits out and looks for other solutions, an important information that at least on some segment the matter is resolved so that the workers are satisfied. We have also verified that most of the works in these concession forests are carried out by subcontractors. Here it turns out that it is not true that there is a relationship there, as the rules dictate, 70:30, and that these concessionaires are exploiting the local labour force, which is good and good. However, care must be taken to ensure that they are well-equipped and, above all, safety at work. We have also been warned of some nonsense, especially that a number of road closures are sometimes, and all the procedures required are several times more valuable than the purchase of wood. There is nothing wrong with the fact that concessionaires also own the processing industry and sawmills. Quite the opposite. One of the main features of Slovenian forestry is that most of the wood is exported to Austria, Italy and neighbouring countries, while we have all the "plus" of this, under terms, cynically destroyed domestic roads. It turns out that there are only a few serious woodworking plants in this country. If we get an order to fill a container ship in Cyprus with sawed wood, the first phase of processing, we can't do that. However, rules should be laid down at what price and assessment these processors come to wood so that market relations do not collapse, that we respect competition rules. There was also a lot of talk about whether or not the wood was marked. Most of them, there are minor shortcomings, and the goal is to make sure that this is resolved. The criticism was also at the expense of measuring the quantities. We have found that the quantities are measured correctly, and it is fair that there are some reserves and free walking in determining the classes and quality of this wood. An important observation was also made on public auctions. On the one hand, of course, we support public auctions, and also, on the other hand, we see that what we are going to do about public auctions is now in Slovenj Gradc at the airport, that it is going to be about superstandard boutique pieces of wood, that thousands of cubics, such as spruce or leaves, which are for processing and wood, so to sell, of course, makes no sense, because the procedures will cost us more than the result. The next one's an interesting thought. We have to bring the Slovenians together. In 2016 concessions will fall. I would also like to see Slovenian forests as masters of Slovenian farmers, workers and Slovenian companies. In recent years, companies have been technologically modernised. They're becoming comparable to neighbors. It is also our job to consider the so-called floating concessions, that concessionaires will not be constantly on the cusp, that those who know that if they do good, quality and fair work, they will also have this concession in the future. Therefore, at the end of the day, let us say we once again support those two decisions which have been adopted on the Committee. They're heading in the right direction. We could also propose a further communication to the Government to amend the concession act on the award of concessions in state forests, so that the calculation of the rent will be based on market bases while ensuring effective supervision and transparency of operations. I'm sure the 2009 report will be better. I would like to see the Supervisory Committee leave its post to submit to the Committee a preliminary report assessing in graves what was going on in this area in 2008 so that the amendments to the proposed legislation and the proposed laws will be as modern, up-to-date and include all these shortcomings. Consideration should be given to the possibility of transferring the management of state forests to the Public Forestry Service. What about the Public Forestry Service? The public forestry service, you may be surprised, costs us 25 million euros a year, and the purchase from the state forests is somewhere in the range of €5.6 million. At the time of Mary Teresa, a singing or criticized marshal, there was always a patent that the public forestry service of the forests, which are state-owned, would certainly create enough to cover itself. And today, of course, we still have a lot to do, a lot to do. And this is one large reserve that needs to be supported. I said that it is necessary to continue to regulate ownership of a number of smaller plots that are not as interesting for the country. Work should be done with subcontractors. Once again, the sale of forest wood varieties for their own processing needs to be regulated by the structure and, in particular, the amount of recognised costs for forest works. Performing bids where it makes sense and benefits. Identifying the market price of wood and ensuring effective control over the implementation of the concession, including labelling, monitoring the quality of forest varieties and, at the end, taking over and reporting on works performed and also paying attention to the transparency of operations where economic undertakings carry out works that are not subject to the award of concessions. There is certainly a lot of work to be done and a solution to the management of the Directorate for Forests, which should be a little more concerned after the defolk and after the legal tasks. What's the important task of the directorate? To monitor the state and prepare systemic solutions in the area of forestry, forestry and insemination and to monitor the forest good market closely, which is not happening at this time. That's enough for the moment. Thank you all for your attention. I think that it is necessary to join forces to propose the best solution for this country in amending the proposed legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The views of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia owns a large amount of property, which is valued at around EUR billion. From this asset, we find from the report of the Supervisory Committee that in 2007 it generated revenue of EUR 20 million 373 000 and EUR 675 and expenditure of EUR 12 million 762 thousand 396. It therefore created a surplus of €7 million over expenditure of €611 000 279. This is an important information, because for a number of years, when we have been monitoring the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, we have always met somehow whether it has covered its activity with income or not and whether all those tasks that the Fund is expected to carry out in its own definition are actually being carried out to a large extent. Above all, we also have in mind the rounding of both forest land and agricultural land, so that the management of forests and agricultural land can then be as rational and, above all, comparable to other European countries, where we are faced with the fact that either leased or owned usually land in larger complexes, but in Slovenia we are meeting areas that are extremely fragmented and that is why the management of these land is often more difficult than other countries. However, if we just look at the revenue structure, we find that agricultural land management contributes 4 million 389 thousand and 908 euros, revenue from compensation for the management of state forests, i.e. from concessions amounts to 6 million 476 thousand and 358 euros, and income from the sale of real estates 7 million 704 thousand 607 euros. The interesting information we get when we review these revenues, namely, if the fund was basically set up to manage and manage agricultural land and forests and state-owned farms, is to see on the income side, in fact, the far highest revenues in the sale of real estate. I think that we can talk about today somehow that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is by no means a fund that would carry out that basic activity of its own, that surrounds the land and helps, in fact, both natural persons, farmers as well as agricultural companies and forestry companies to work successfully, but it deals to a large extent with the sale of real estate and we can also wonder whether it is still an agricultural fund or a possible real estate fund. Of course, it is extremely important, even when we look at the structure of incomes in real estate sales, where they are created or where the land is generated by such high revenues - and we find that, of course, these are not revenues from the sale of forests, because the price is relatively low, these are not important incomes from the sale of agricultural land, but they are incomes generated by the sale of unbuilt building land. So the land that they actually reach on the market, sometimes even the price of the carousel, especially in areas that are extremely interesting to the market and, of course, it creates an extremely important one here, if we can say so, a conflict between municipalities that can plan spatial development and also determine the status of individual land and invest in municipal equipment of unbuilt building land, and on the other hand, we are faced with the fact that the fund then such land, which it does not invest even the euro, is, of course, selling at an extremely high price on the market. So, in all the history of the Fund of Agricultural Lands since its establishment, we are faced with the fact that, in fact, the Fund of Agricultural Lands is poor in rural areas and is focusing on areas where this income has not been created. And this is the question that we need to clear up when the Fund continues to operate in Slovenia. In fact, whether it really makes sense that the revenue from natural wealth, in an environment where it is extremely difficult to create new production programmes, new jobs or jobs that bring high added value, we are poor, and we are actually helping, I don't know, to develop activities in urban settlements, including through the fund. Because all of the jobs that, or most of the jobs that are also in line, are actually concentrated in Ljubljana and, of course, there is also a lot of money to either buy back the property owned by the Ljubljana fund or then pay expensive costs in the operation itself. Therefore, further development of the Fund and understanding of the operation of the Fund must be involved in focusing, however, on the fact that this high added value created by the Fund does come back to the area where it was also created. We have spent a lot of time proving that the excess of revenue over expenditure is not a matter of free judgment, if we can put it this way simply, the decisions of the government and the fund where this surplus will go. For it was usually intended for the operation of institutions operating in the field of environmental protection, but not for the return to the environment where this income was created. This has also proved to be contrary to Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, which imposes an agreement on the allocation of surpluses to the State budget, where these funds are redistributed by the principle of an integrated budget, just as the Government submits them for consideration by the National Assembly and when the National Assembly does not finally adopt the State budget. In short, these funds are being lost within public finances and it would be right to really bring such solutions into this law, where the surplus would also be kept within the fund and then to define that part of these funds is going back to the areas where this income was also created. In fact, each cubic of cut wood, each square metre of processed agricultural area, for which rent is also paid, also contributes to one of the largest projects we have carried out in Slovenia since independence; it is a matter of denationalisation. In fact, the fund is also liable to pay denationalisation claims, either to provide substitute land or to provide funds that someone who is supposed to have recovered is not managing this property and that loss of that income is expected to be covered by the fund. So, from all this property, we also allocate resources for the area of denationalisation. However, we also need to know that the denationalisation taxpayer is also a local community or municipality. Part of these funds, I reiterate, which are shown to be a surplus of revenue over expenditure, must also be returned to the local community in order to be able to pay the local community's obligation arising from the decision to return exceptional amounts of property in nature, and that compensation for this, if not reimbursed in due time, is also provided in the form of payments. One important principle, that we somehow understand how important it is, and not least, how important it is to establish the relationship between the economy, between local communities and between the fund, is that both the Agricultural Land Fund Act and some other laws must be cleaned up. For this reason, we have also proposed to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that the National Assembly today adopt a decision proposing to the Government that it prepare a proposal for a new law on public funds, amending Article 55, which interferes with the already acquired property of municipalities in unpaved buildings. For in 2008 a law was passed that nationalized municipal property. This is, excuse me, exceptional, we can call this an unconstitutional act, because the municipalities have actually been deprived of ownership of the land they acquired, if they have defined such land as an unbuilt building, by 25 March 2000. The Act, adopted in 2008, nationalised this property by recognizing the ownership of municipalities only in those unpaved building sites that were defined as such by March 1993. So the period from 1993 to 2000 is something that we have actually nationalized and owned by the congregations. In short, with today's decision, which the Social Democrats will also support, we want the Government to remove this situation without delay and return this property to the municipalities which have already acquired it on the basis of the above-mentioned law. The fact is that the concession paid or paid by concessionaires for the management of state forests is not returned to the municipality in the work belonging to the municipalities under the law on environmental protection. Thus, the second decision we have proposed on the Committee refers to the adoption today of a decision by the National Assembly ordering the Government to bring the concession act into line with Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act, which provides for the concession to be distributed in one part to the congregation and in the other part to the State. In short, this also brings us closer to this fact somehow, that we stop povertying the countryside, but that we also allow it to continue to develop, and in particular that it can also take care of local infrastructure, which is largely damaged by the harvesting of timber or agricultural crops from the state surfaces. And the cost of all this maintenance and construction is entirely left to the municipalities. An important part, which we also want to highlight in 2009, when we consider the 2007 report of the Supervisory Committee, we want to highlight in the part where we find that the period of exceptional economic growth, both in 2007 and especially in 2008, is behind us. We are in 2008 when the government is coming, as well as the National Assembly, with a number of suggestions on how to relieve the economy so that it can cope with this extremely difficult situation, in which the financial sector, as well as the increasingly real sector, or the economy itself, is located. And in the actions that the Fund can also implement - that is, the Fund is a kind of a para-national fund, so it is not bound to public finance rules in the sense that the National Assembly decides what the Fund is supposed to do with this money, but the Fund is actually a standalone institution, which has quite a few resources that it can have in line with the programme and plan that the Council of the Fund adopts and then supervises the Supervisory Board. These measures concern, in particular, 15 000 agricultural land buyers, 15 concession firms with concession contracts concluded, as well as a number of other undertakings or individuals who contract certain works in the management of state assets. And it is very important that we are aware of what conditions we will establish in these extremely difficult times for agricultural companies, whether these leases will grow and actually make their operation difficult for them, or whether we will try to raise concessions to a level that will no longer threaten the successful functioning and development of these companies, or whether we will listen to the current economic and financial crisis and try to achieve a balance in this area. It is not irrelevant, because the large range of agricultural enterprises or the chain of agricultural enterprises is often linked to the whole range of products that, of course, are then purchased through the food processing industry, and, finally, the price of wood is the one that creates the story and fate of the wood processing industry, so that there are very many and difficult open issues that we think of as social democrats, that they should also be thoroughly coordinated and followed by the government's procedure, which is trying to relieve the economy at these moments. We therefore expect that the Fund will also try to follow these guidelines and to burden the economy and ensure that we come out of this crisis as ready as possible at a time when, of course, new visions need to be reintroduced and, of course, also open up, new programmes that will be possible due to increased economic growth. In short, the Group of Social Democrats will support the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and also expect the future extraordinary economic behaviour of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The views of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. I must say in the introduction that I am joining all the speakers, and I must say that this is indeed the point where we are united. At the end of the debate, I think the conclusions proposed will also be supported. In opening, I would like to say that we have carefully read the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. The report, as it were, deserves an excellent assessment, as it is correctly written. The report contains all the necessary information on the business and we are interested in Members and Members so that we can discuss this subject in a qualitative and responsible manner. I would also like to commend the work and management of the fund over the last four years, which has been at a high level. All together, we can only wish that this would continue in the future. Now, specifically the report itself. From it, the need for a completed strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture and some amendments to existing legislation, which will also formally obtain appropriate legislative solutions to regulate the situation in the field of agriculture, can be understood. However, there will have to be a systematic solution to the problem of operating in border areas where certain problems occur mainly in Brkini, Goričke hills, near Dragonja, Slovenski Gorica and in south-eastern Slovenia, in Goričkem. However, it will be necessary to find appropriate professional and legislative solutions as soon as possible to address the problems resulting from the abandonment of agricultural activities and to address the issue of high-level farms, which is very specific. Otherwise, which is commendable, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in 2007 paid great attention to reducing the unoccupied agricultural areas in the management of the Fund. And if I understand correctly from the report, there was a decrease of about 70% from 2006. It is also commendable that the Fund for Agricultural Lands has substantially increased its concessional income compared to previous years. The reorganisation of the Fund in 2007, including the new statute adopted, is likely to have helped. We can also see that from a financial point of view, the Fund worked well. The word or two would also be intended for the so-called rent or concessional income, which was already under discussion on the Committee and today my predecessors have all talked about it. Over the past few years, it has been growing since the Fund's commitment to invest heavily in forests, as we know that forests in state ownership are good forests, quality, in particular as regards the openness of infrastructure, roads, etc. This means that state forests not only carry out economic activities but also social activities. Of course, we can see that there are quite a few things here that are hampering the Fund’s even better functioning in this area. One of these is the denationalisation legislation, as it prohibits any unilateral use of those lands for which a request for reimbursement under the denationalisation law is made, as this area is also one of those which could be changed and which I have already mentioned in the introductory part. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, on the basis of the report and the discussions at the Committee's meeting, I find the Fund actively and responsibly monitored by the Supervisory Committee, since, inter alia, the Supervisory Committee has suggested that the Fund should be classified as a priority, which has also been done in the end. We also note that the Supervisory Committee has commissioned an internal audit to confirm the correctness of the availability of over-expenditures. It is also noted that the Fund has difficulty in purchasing real estate - of course, we are talking about land and agricultural holdings, due to overestimation of these in the market. Compared to the valuations, the real estate in the offers is sometimes valued several times. In such cases, the Purchase Fund shall not be declared contributing to the speculative rise in real estate prices. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is the right thing to do. We certainly support the report in our parliamentary group. We also support the proposals for conclusions, which will allow the Fund to function even better by amending legislation. However, the content of the conclusions will be discussed in the debate itself between Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Damian Perne will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u98	Respected and respected, well-known. We have also read the 2007 Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, and we can, in fact, agree in many ways with all that has been said in the much-largest debate of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as with what my speakers have said here. Even in our parliamentary group, we are of the opinion that it is prudent and not only prudent, but it is imperative to consider amending the Law on Public Funds and to also regulate the transfer of building land to the municipalities by including in the paper the text of Article 57 of the previous Law on Public Funds, which was previously replaced by Article 55 of the Law in 2008. At that time, of course, the volume of building land to be transferred by the State to the congregations was reduced. And we also believe that the congregations are those who know how to manage land well and that the transfer of land would, of course, be necessary. We also believe that it would be appropriate to harmonise the concessional act on the award of concessions in the state forests referred to in Article 164 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment; it is said that part of the payment for the concession on natural goods would also be added to the municipality in which that natural property is. However, it can also be used in such a way that these funds can then be used to rebuild those forest roads, to repair the storms, and so on. In short, we believe that the congregations with these lands, as I said before, would be well - ruled and that they would also have part of the good that we offer to the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franc Jurša will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Also on our side a nice greeting to all who are gathered here in the hall. In the DeSUS Group, we support both proposals for decisions adopted on the home labour body, namely that the Government prepare an amendment to Article 55 of the Law on Public Funds and immediately align the concession act on the award of concessions in state forests with Article 164 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Initially, it should be pointed out that the Fund of Agricultural Lands should have a specific task, which has also created it, including the implementation of the denationalisation process on state land and forests. However, practice has shown that due to some shortcomings these procedures are not optimal. One of the key shortcomings is that the creation of agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia has not yet been completed, in order to even know what assets the fund actually manages or masters. As a result, there are also unregulated leases where the priority should be given to those leasers who are actually engaged in an agricultural activity which are consistent with the objectives of the agricultural policy. In the parliamentary group, we believe that according to the Fund's operating data in 2007, the Fund from the Agricultural and Forestry Fund is being transformed into a real estate fund, as it is clear that the Fund has obtained the most revenue from the sale of real estate. I would also like to point out that there is also a lack of breakdown in the report or tables of these revenues from the sale of real estates, so it is not clear whether these are incomes from the sale of agricultural land, building land or building land, which is essential for further reflection on the future tasks of the Fund in this area. One of the very hot areas is our assessment of the transfer of real estate to the municipalities, as the interest in the sale of real estate is very high. This area should be regulated as soon as possible, as the Fund would even be identified as an obstacle to the development of municipalities due to the lack of consistency. Of course, I must point out that the transfer of property to the municipalities was complicated in 2008 by the adoption of a new law on public funds, which made it the property of the municipalities only those unbuilt buildings which were defined as such until 1993, while Article 57 of the original law stipulated that the ownership of the municipalities would become those unbuilt buildings owned by the municipalities by 2000. In this case, it is even possible to talk about a certain nationalisation of municipal property or an unconstitutional intervention in the acquisition of the rights of municipalities that have become landowners. Therefore, a new law on public funds should be drawn up as soon as possible to close the conflict with the Constitution. One of the Fund’s main tasks should also be to ensure the conservation of rural areas, which, according to our assessment, does not take place primarily because of the failure to transfer building land to the municipalities. Since 2008, the Fund has been transferring building land instead of to municipalities to a consulting and management company that now manages extremely large areas of building land and sells it to either municipalities, companies or other interested parties. Since large financial resources are being borrowed for the purchase and sale of real estate, they are intended for a variety of needs not related to addressing the development needs of areas where they are also most created, such a rural financial outflow is caused by such operations. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, namely the fact that many forests have been transferred to their own municipalities and under the law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities. During the period 2003-2007, an extremely large cut of wood was carried out, which was approved by the Institute for Forests, but the fund never paid compensation to the municipalities for the cut wood. Since the surplus in the management of the fund in 2007 is also the result of the forest management in previous years, the fund should provide data before the transfer of surplus to the integrated budget on the amount of funds created in and from municipal forests during that period. We can't pass concessions in state forests. The fact is that concessions in state forests have created very large financial resources, which have increased from year to year. According to our assessment, there is a certain legal void in this area. Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act provides that, if a concession on natural property is obtained by a State, part of the concession fee shall also be paid to the municipality in which the concession is carried out or affected. Since the exercise of agricultural activities as well as the management of forests results in damage to the environment, and no one provides funds to the municipalities for their removal, it is pointless to devote more than €7 million of excess income over the expenditure of the Fund to the integral budget rather than to pay the damage to the municipalities. It is therefore necessary to align the concession act on the award of concessions in State forests as soon as possible with the Environmental Protection Act in order to clearly define the distribution of revenue between municipalities and the State. In the DeSUS Group, we assess that the Fund must carry out its task more effectively and in accordance with the purposes for which it was established and, with appropriate measures, play an active role in ensuring more equitable regional development with greater involvement or participation of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The views of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleague and colleague! We have reservations in the Slovenian National Party before the report of the Supervisory Committee, which discusses the Fund for Land and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? The Authority notes that the high meetings have not been paid, but look, this cannot be one of the main thesis reported by the rapporteur. In the past mandate, we have had a number of comments on the work of the Agricultural Land Fund. I will also tell you later how many questions we have written on this and the Government has answered us that by amending the law or introducing the law on regional development or regions, this fund should also be abolished. Why? Unless we are essential - today we have heard from the Secretary of State - that we will change legislation - if we do not substantially change legislation, the Fund, as it is, better not to work because it works harmfully and in fact also completely contrary to national interests. We have warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that agricultural land is also being sold through the fund to foreigners, and the fact is that the Supervisory Council has also warned about this. The President of the Supervisory Board knows enough to say about these irregularities, but not a single word has been said today. The report does not express the actual situation, and if we really want to talk about it, then we should also say what a harmful way the fund has in fact worked in the past; in short, it did not allow those who would like to work with the state land either in vineyards or in farming, it did not allow rental contracts for foreigners, but as has already been said, there was no problem and it was in fact approved land surrender; also in the way that we described it in the question of the delegation which the Fund knew about. In fact, this is about cooperatives that were established with strawed men, and here I have in mind mainly a cooperative from Brd, the Green Garden, whose founders were Slovenian citizens, but behind was Italian capital. Italy is still paying very high loans today. Citizens, their residents, hire them under very favourable conditions, there is almost no interest in purchasing our agricultural land - but Slovenia has not responded to this! Consistency regional development should also be ensured in such a way that, if the legal platform on this fund does not change substantially, the fund is simply abolished and these land is allocated to the management of the municipalities. This would ensure coherent regional development. We would also allow those congregations that are now in the state nursery to operate independently and thus have a source of income to express on the budget side. In short, we discussed all of this in the previous term and it seems that the current government is forgetting this and I believe that you will quietly give me the right, especially the mayors of those small municipalities, which are entirely dependent on state revenues. It is here that we come to a well - known position that these very small congregations have the opportunity to manage these lands better than the fund. They could also develop economic operators in their municipality and also enable the development of agriculture, which could also be a bearer sector through the development of tourism and thus ensure the existence of new jobs. In short, a new added value would be created. Today, none of this is and I do not believe that by supplementing the existing legislation, I simply do not believe that we will achieve the desired result. Because there is a beautiful garden in which all those who want to provide private and private interests belong, and we will continue to talk about these crimes in this mandate. I can only say from this city that in the Slovenian National Party, if we do not make an order in this area, the current government, given that we have already warned, we have put eight questions in the previous mandate and something in the previous one, that if the warnings do not fail, we will once again make summaries. We're just gonna start filing criminal charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. A general debate will take place between Members and Members on the 2007 Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, with a proposal for conclusions. The first person to ask for the floor of the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, Mrs Maria Oswald. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'd like to start at the back first. In view of the evidence of the modesty of my report, I would add that the Report of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests covers 115 pages and can only be read two pages within 5 minutes. If anyone would like some more explanation, I'll be at your disposal. Then perhaps we could correct the Member of the Social Democrats. In fact, the fund has a centre in Ljubljana, but it has 35 local exhibitions and 5 forest administrations, so these people are organized all over Slovenia. Even those in Ljubljana - one third of these people are field workers, mostly. I would then reply to Mr DeSUS, the representative of DeSUS, that the business report on page 30 in Table 11 compared the sales of agricultural land between 2006 and 2007 by amount, by category, agricultural land, infrastructure, building, even more, at the value of the 15 largest agricultural sales, at the value of the 15 largest sales of building land. So if we went over the details of this report, we'd probably be looking at this a little bit differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the 2007 Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have considered on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as such in the Slovenian National Party, we accept reservations or have comments on the open issues and problems encountered by the Fund in its work. The report is only prepared supervisoryly and clearly. In addition to the business and accounting reports of the above-mentioned information and explanations, there are also open issues and problems, but we miss, at least in the final part, proposals and clear recommendations for improving the situation. I agree with the urgently needed redefinition of the status form of the Fund, and I am particularly referring to Articles 1 and 4 of the Law on Institutions. It is logical to take into account market approaches, at least in the field of concessional and non-concession activities, if the objective and task of the Fund are to effectively implement agricultural land and forest transport, manage financial resources and if the Fund wants to do its work as a good host. With regard to the shortcomings, it is also possible to mention the still incomplete register of agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia in order to make it at least clear what assets the Fund actually manages. This, however, was mentioned earlier. Rental contracts are also unregulated, as it also happens that leasers can also become persons or entities that are not actually engaged in agricultural activities or are only formally registered for that purpose. The role of the Fund in the implementation of agricultural policy is very important, since the Fund does not last have huge assets, according to an estimate of over a billion euros, but in fact this value is several times higher and it is therefore going to focus on the role and work of the Fund in particular and more attention. It seems to me that in these times of crisis, land and forests can be an important area at a time of economic recession that is far from useful and efficient enough to be exploited. On this occasion, I must certainly expose the difficulties of abandoning agricultural activities in border areas and in demographically threatened areas. In doing so, I think first of all about the border region in Pomurje, this is Goričko. The situation of abandonment of farms is becoming quite critical. It's also a demographic picture in the region. It is essential to find an appropriate systemic solution to improve this situation, and I believe that the Fund should play an important role in this regard and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, find opportunities for appropriate systemic solutions. And to return to the problem of abandoning agricultural areas and planting land on our Gorički in Prekmurje. I think that this is an immeasurable damage not only to the region, but also to the Slovenian economy as a whole. It is incomprehensible that in these critical times we do not take advantage of every source of income available and that we want to solve the situation by saving in all other areas, by means of symbolic savings. That is why we expect the new government and the Ministry of Agriculture to come up with concrete proposals and measures on how to revitalise agriculture in demographically threatened areas and prevent the population from falling and evicting. Today's proposed conclusions, I think, on the proposal of the Government for a new law on public funds and a decision on the award of concessions in state forests, are only part of the necessary measures to improve the situation of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Tom Mencinger has the floor. He's cancelling the debate. Mr Posedel Aloys has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, several talks have already been said in the course of the debate, and at the beginning of my debate let me also say one, which is also connected a little to the countryside, 'dogs bark, caravans go on'. This is a proverb that a person remembers when he listens to each year’s debate on the work reports of the Agricultural Land Fund. Each year it is recalled that, after so many years of operation, the Fund does not perform the basic function for which it was established. Every year, that's what he's been alerting himself to. Each year it is also recalled that it is incomprehensible that, after so much time, not all the assets managed by the Fund are still being set up. Each year it is also recalled that the book value of real estate is undervalued. Each year it is reminded of phenomena that are certainly not good for different types of property sales. To draw attention all the years to the discriminatory attitude towards municipalities, to local communities, to the fact that this is being pointed out in a way that we have already heard today that the nationalisation of certain properties of local communities has taken place and that, because of this, the municipalities have remained, or have remained, a significant part of the revenues that could be used with certainty in a more useful and purposeful way in the location where they are also created. That every year it is being warned, and more and more today in this report, how the share of property sales revenue is growing, and that this is not the basic property, it is the agricultural land, the forest, but that it comes from the land which means the building land that is not built. And here we are again in congregations in such a strange situation that we need to do our public interest, to build houses, kindergartens, infrastructure at high prices or prices set by this fund, to buy land for these investments. I therefore support these amendments proposed to amend the fund law. That each year we listen and especially highlight this in the previous term of last year, how the land is treated, with limited surface Slovenian land, what different methods, previously called tricks, appear and who buys this land, under what headings, under what groupings, and that in the previous term we also had an extraordinary meeting, at which, interestingly, no one at the Ministry of Agriculture knew about it, nobody in accordance with, no one in administrative units, practically everything that people see, they know, but the relevant institutions do not notice. The same debate on forestry, which has come so far as anyone who knows a little bit of mathematics, can calculate that there is something seriously wrong with such a low yield as shown in this report, with public speaking and cash being paid, that it is not controlled and everything that the colleagues have already said on the Committee on Agriculture and also in the debate. That it was in the previous term that we had adopted legislation, such as road transport, that it was so unfair that an irregular punishment for citizens and citizens had been increased and that, at all points where penalties for trucks had been imposed, penalties had been reduced for freight transport. This is not what anyone from the then government wanted to hear, and this is what we have now on the shoulders of local communities. This is no longer traffic by tractors or trucks, these are monsters that have no less than 24, 30, 40 tons of carrying capacity. And this is driven along local roads and destroys them, by both edges, by the middle and by banks, and the repair of these is on the shoulders of local communities. I am sure that this has been a warning very much, that cases are also very clear and that I am sure that this matter can be rectified. That is why I am also optimistic about these two proposals, which we will certainly support, and that the report itself states that certain things are improving. And, above all, in the work of local communities with these lands, I am sure that they are doing better and more economically, this fund law must also be amended as soon as possible. The warnings about the adoption of the forest law, what will happen and how these services work were very clear, but they did not hear the warning, they have been repeated today, and I only hope that these changes, which are planned and in which we all believe, in this area, will also make it easier to vote in favour of this report at the next reading of the report of the Monitoring Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands, with optimism and with the belief that these things are changing faster for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. I fully agree with the report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Take a look, and I will also give my word to support these two conclusions that he made in the report. My fellow Member, Mr Bogovic, said in the end that he had said some serious words. I will add to this that he has spoken real words or words of truth. Why am I saying this? See, the concession fees for 2007 paid by the fund were four to five times lower to the concessionaire than the market price. I therefore propose that the Government amend the concession act on State forests by making the calculation of concession compensation based on market bases with effective supervision and transparency of operations. The Slovenian Forestry Institute is a public economic service for all forests in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of ownership. The professional, human resources and operational coverage of the entire forest area in Slovenia allows the Slovenian Institute of Forests to carry out the tasks of the Fund's economic sector without major difficulties with a certain minimum upgrade. The report, in particular in practice, makes it clear that effective forest management is possible only with operational service on the ground and not only from the Ljubljana Centre. The duplication of two state institutions in the same field only confirms the meaningful rationalisation of the operation of state forests within the Institute for Forests in Slovenia. I therefore propose that the Government consider the possibility of a change in the transfer of state forests to the Slovenian Institute of Forests as a public forestry service organised and competent in the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Allen Bukovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, representatives of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has carried out the work of the entire Supervisory Committee of the Fund to the best of his ability. In the 1950s, Slovenia developed a modern system of co-natural sustainable forest management that is respected and respected in all advanced European countries and wider. So, the ideologist of the doctrine of Prof. Dr. Dušan Mlinšek was the one who introduced this concept and with his lectures at the university taught all those experts who have anything to do with the forests in Slovenia today. The concept of management uses natural resources, prohibits nudity, protects natural ecosystems. As such, it extends not only woodworking but also other environmental functions of the forest. In the future, forest management will also be strategically important due to the water resources and other protection functions provided by the co-natural forest. Madam President of the Supervisory Committee said that increased control of the forestry sector. Let us begin with a few concepts that will be discussed in the future by those who will speak for me and by my predecessors. Single forest management under forest management was divided into three entities in 1993. This has become the Slovenian Institute of Forests, which is a key professional institution that takes care of professional work in Slovenian forests. By issuing decisions on the implementation of works, it provides for professional cutting, the execution of breeding works, the protection and strengthening of other functions of the forest. It plans and controls the performance of the works. Its organisation also physically covers all forests in Slovenia with 14 forestry areas and local units and about 400 forest districts. There are about 700 forest workers. Secondly, these forest economies have also been immersed in implementing companies, which in some cases retain their name 'land economy', which, with the former so-called forest economies at the beginning of the reorganisation, are no longer associated, in fact, with private shareholders. The State granted a long-term concession for the exploitation of state forests on the basis of a law on compliance. The aim was also to preserve existing jobs in forestry. At the start of the reorganisation, 8,500 people were employed in forest holdings, and today there are about 1,000 in forest holdings. The third institution, which was also created by reorganisation, was the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the manager of the state forests. Professional proposals are prepared by the Institute for Forests, and works are carried out by concessionaries, i.e. forestry companies, on the basis of a Regulation on concessions for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund shall, on the basis of the annual plans, determine the height of the cut, the scope of the forestry works, the means to build the forest trains. The rest of the money is concessional compensation, which determines investment in the construction of forest roads, purchases of forests and the like. Madam President of the Supervisory Committee said they had increased the control of the forestry sector. He says human resources malnutrition in the forestry sector is obvious. Let me help her when the President says she couldn't explain everything in five minutes. See, the forestry sector and the human resources sector have never been covered enough to successfully monitor the implementation of works in the state forests, which we have heard are 224,000 hectares. In 1997, three workers were employed in the forestry sector; today 8 people are employed in the forestry sector of the Agricultural Land Fund for the whole of Slovenia. Since it was not possible to achieve human resources reinforcements in the past, the Fund relied on the Slovenian Institute of Forests by contract, which is the institution which employs about 700 foresters and covers all the forests in Slovenia. The Fund thus began to take control of developments in the state forests. The Fund for Agricultural Lands has trained 36 foresters in the institution to control the acquisition of forest varieties, which, by their presence and carrying out controls, have helped to better control the classification of wood and thus determine the selling value of wood. The fund also developed in 2005 a system for monitoring the production and sale of wood, called forest forest ranges. With the introduction of this system, he guaranteed to the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors that he would receive a review of the sale of timber from state forests. The principle of the system is based on the fact that each wood variety is marked with a sign plate and all data refer to it. So, Kubatura, quality, method of sale, sales price are recorded in the information system to which the fund should have access at any time. Most companies, so concessionaires, are already using this system. This system is not in use today. The application was even purchased in 2005 and only the installation and entry into service is required. I myself have asked the Committee on Agriculture a number of questions to which I have received answers, which have partly satisfied me, partly when the Fund is responsible for the agricultural sector and has provided satisfactory answers, although I believe that the structure of agricultural land could also be improved by selling smaller distributed parcels. When it comes to the sale of agricultural land to neighbouring farms, the Fund should not apply prices according to criteria that are not acceptable. For example, the 100-metre belt is also counted from isolated farms and other facilities. However, it should be noted that farmers are also satisfied with the lease of agricultural land and that the fund plays its role in this regard. I believe that more needs to be done to preserve mountain farms and prevent the cultivation of agricultural areas by the forestry sector. In any event, however, I do not agree with the answer that the key data needed to assess the effectiveness of forest management cannot be provided and are available at the Fund's headquarters. On the contrary. I believe that all the required data must be sent and contained in the report and without them it is more difficult to accept the report. In response to one of my questions from the Fund, it was stated that rationalisation could not be carried out due to the rules adopted. A key regulation governing forest management is a concession regulation for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In the last period, neither the Fund nor the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food have given any initiative to amend this Regulation and could give it in the light of the situation and the results of the management. The Fund thus did not find the key solutions required by the Court of Auditors in 2003 and 2004, when it carried out a review of the work of the Agricultural Land Fund. We are talking about cost reductions, we are talking about correctly setting the market value of wood by means of public auctions and registering properties, which my predecessors have already said more about. The comparison of management between concession forests and those whose works have been awarded through public tenders shows that management in the latter has been much more successful. In addition, it cannot be overlooked that the Agricultural Land Fund is trying to outsource the Forest Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in some way, since we find that these contracts and those educated people who were contractually bound by the Fund in 2005 are no longer available and I wonder, in fact, whether 7 or 8 employees in the Agricultural Land Fund, in the forest sector, are able to control the work and developments in state forests, which measure 224,000 hectares. In addition to wood production, Slovenian forests provide other more important ecological and social functions. That is why the State must ensure full control of the situation in them. These are requirements which, in view of the importance of the forest itself, are self-sustaining and which I find very difficult to discuss. Such a situation requires responsibility. During the meeting of the Committee and during the meeting of the National Assembly, I came to some interesting conclusions on the basis of the responses I received from the Fund. And let me immediately deny the rumors that were spreading that I was asking questions that I had no idea about. See if anyone wants to see how a rent or rent is made up, read this rule saying: Rent or lease by calculating from the estimated annual realisation of the wood that is mutilated, cut and sold [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] trucking road, deducting the standard costs of cutting, handling and handling on the truck road, the costs of building and maintaining forest trains, the costs of growing and protecting parts, the envisaged forest management and forestry plans and the costs of other parts to be carried out by the renter and the contractor in agreement with the forest owner. And the main conclusion that I have actually come to and found by other Members already today and have also been talking about it is that there are very large differences in the rent, or concessions, or rents between the forests which are awarded concessions, and in the forests whose ownership is the country and were bought under the Regulation and the Act on concessions. I know the case when the denationalisation beneficiaries returned to the forest in nature and then the fund subsequently bought back this forest from these denationalisation beneficiaries because they had no interest in managing the forest. And this forest is maintained and managed today, not on the basis of concession contracts, but on the basis of forest management plans for those units that have also been in the forestry sector, calls are made and applied to those who want or feel able to manage and maintain forests in those areas where there are no concessions. If we look at the table that I got from the fund the answer that I could come look at at the central fund, but I tried and calculated it myself. On the concession, which was realised in 2007 by concessionaires in concessionary forests, the fund received an average €5.6 per cubic metre of broken wood per cubic metre. In the forests, which are not in concessions, on average, on the basis of this table, which I received and thanked for, along with the response of the Agricultural Land Fund to my question, I calculated that this concession which the Fund received from those who carried out works in the state forests was, on average, EUR 24.40 in non-concession Slovenian forests. And if we compare this with each other, we find that the difference between the forests that are in the concession and the forests that are not in the concession are nevertheless in the management of the Agricultural Land Fund, in the 4.6-fold difference in price received by the fund for the destruction of cubic meters of wood. In 2007, in the area of concessionary forests, the Fund of Agricultural Lands overcame the price of €37.98 per cubic metre of wood. And we all know that this is the price of the wood we use for firewood. I could not agree that in Slovenian state forests it is so bad, so inquality wood. I think it's the top forests, and I think that more should be done here. To conclude, if the data provided by the Fund, i.e. the excess of revenue over expenditure for 2007, and this gross data, are reduced by the value created, the surplus generated on agricultural land, we find that, in the area of forest management, in 2007, there has been an uptake or surplus of income over expenditure of some EUR 6 million. And if we look at the difference between what we got from the forests that are in the concession, and what we got from the forests that are not in the concession, we find that if we multiply it times 4.6, we get a number that is significantly above and touching those numbers that my predecessors were talking about. I believe that the Monitoring Committee should further strengthen the control of the forest sector in the future and thereby justify the role of those who justify public interest through us and through the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! The Director of the Agricultural Fund is legally obliged to monitor the legality of the Fund and I believe that it will also defend this legality if it can, of course, be done. According to what some critics have heard today, I also believe that you will confirm this report. However, I would like to point out that it will not stop there, it is not only how we sell our wood, that is what the Slovenian People's Party has been talking about, to whom we put forests in a biomass-producing holocaust, that is, foreigners. The problem is selling Slovenian land to foreigners, I have already talked about it, and of course also renting land to foreigners. Foreign citizens also have leases. We have also written about this in fact to the Ministry since 2006 on 19 July. We got a solid answer, but nothing happened. An Italian citizen there has 30 to 40 hectares of land in Dolina near Matheria for rent and is likely to still receive subsidies for this. Given the kind of anarchy in this context and what the Fund could do to offer better coherent development to the municipalities, how this will be ensured, it is the task of the new ministry. I believe the Minister of Agriculture will have to think about this situation. And this amended law that you're planning is expected as soon as possible in the national constituency benches. But we will make sure that this work is judged and reviewed by some other authorities in the country, because this political assembly, the high assembly, as some say, is not sufficiently consistent, insufficiently principled to judge right. And let the Court of Auditors, the Kosovo Commission, decide on this. We will, if you do not act quickly enough, also write criminal charges, as we said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. Although today the agenda item is the Audit Report on the functioning of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the debate has expanded, as we have already seen on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I have no objection to this, because there have been many things that, as we have already heard from Madam Secretary of State, are already in preparation for the issue that we have raised at both sessions to be resolved. The report itself is so much to note with pleasure that the situation in the Fund of Lands and Forests is improving that each report is made very correctly and qualitatively transparent. And with this we can see some picture of the situation in this area. Above all, we note from the responses provided by colleagues to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that the law is obsolete. Some regulations hamper the Fund's financial well-being and therefore make changes necessary. Of course, another very urgent change in the operation of the Fund will be when the expected introduction of the provinces takes place. First of all, there are some problems that the current Fund's legislation is having. First of all, it's the word fondue. I think I was taught correctly that it was inappropriate, because the fund acts as an institution and only this word is used. So there's already some legal confusion. We talked a lot about concessions. We have also seen in the calculation of concessions that the standard costs of cutting and some other regulations are included, which are hampering the poorer business impact of concessions or of money coming from concessions. The chairman of our committee has already pointed out that every euro generated in this area would amount to an additional million euros over a million cubic metres in the budget or the operation of the Fund. The Fund’s primary task is to smartly and wisely manage its land. Above all, to follow the basic leader. This guide speaks of the rounding up of agricultural land and forests, the provision of suitable land for agricultural activity. Here we must welcome the orientation that it is increasingly less and less important to sell off land and that the fund has set itself a goal to make leases. When it comes to selling off, after a year, two people are already building there, and in fact, we are gradually losing valuable farm land. The Fund should do the best possible business with these lands and take care of the rounding of Slovenian farms. As we know, the Slovenian farm is still on average much smaller than competing farms in the European Union countries, and as such it remains much more difficult, so this segment of the operation of the Fund is even more welcome. In particular, concessions may also point out that there are also negative concessions, for where there is yet something to be paid, because in the framework of these works they give to concessionaires, there are also such jobs where it is not about the collection or acquisition of high-quality types of wood, and ultimately the effect is negative. However, I would like to know if there are interested municipalities for such a form of concession, because the other part is already in the bill to share the concession in some way with the congregation and the fund. Following today's discussions, it has proved to be justified to some extent and the question of the following arrangements will be just this relationship. We have also heard some proposals that, according to my assessment, are quite realistic and could be included in the following legislation, whether in law, regulation or other sub-legislative acts. Today it has also been warned about forest cultivation in Slovenia. That's a very burning problem. I think we are the only country in the European Union facing this problem. This is why we are losing a lot of agricultural land. Of course, demographically endangered hilllands are preferred, where farming is abandoned and consequently a whole lot of environmental impacts, either water retention, rainfall, climate in a narrower sense. Later, after a few years, it may be a source of wood biomass, and much still needs to be done in this area. Members of the Slovenian Forestry Union also responded to the Committee's discussions and explained some of the things that were exposed. It is gratifying that, in fact, there were no complaints that the system in this area worked well. Finally, I would say that it is worth supporting the proposals we have heard. However, I am also pleased to support this year's report, which has been dealt with exceptionally for a long time at the National Assembly. I think we've only dealt with it on the Agriculture Committee for a few years. But given the subjects that opened up, I don't think it's any harm. However, if we overcome one step against a better solution, we have done our work very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. The debate is varied, and I think it is also useful, and what matters need to be welcomed at the conclusion. We talked a little bit about what the Fund's strategy should be and what we're trying to achieve with land owned by the state. As far as I am concerned, as far as agricultural land is concerned, should go to the farmers they process, to the buildings in the territory of the municipalities belonging to the municipalities, and the forests should certainly remain in state ownership so that they continue to have multifunctional functions and will be accessible to all under the same conditions, subject to respect for the bonton. The forests owned by the fund are certainly the best Slovenian forests. They include good and planned work and must also continue to be maintained and compatible, allowing for the purchase of forests, an active market actor, to have the resources to do so and to have the pre-primary right to allow the rounding of forest holdings. We have also talked a lot today about the distribution of money that we are going to get from these state forests, and it is certainly necessary to create conditions for this profit and capital from these forests at this point in time. The times to come are not pink for the builders either. If construction workers are doing badly, this means that the needs for building timber are reduced and that they are taken into account when signing these agreements and the contracts, and also the reality brought to us by the tight economic situation. However, we Slovenians have one good opportunity to take advantage of a large part of this forest mass, which is increasing from year to year, for heating in ecological furnaces and for heating. None of the Slovenian forests have any closure valves, as we have now seen for ten and fourteen days on recordings from Russia and Ukraine. Where these principles and woodworking processes have been undertaken in a modern ecological way, they also have good experience and the story makes sense. One of the most common signs is that wood biomass production is barely worth it and is not worth it. However, there are other added values. What we're building with gas pipelines, terminals and what we planned in the cove will probably have some additional costs and, if not others, environmental consequences. Therefore, it recommended that the 2009 annexation should take into account the general financial crisis and sometimes the questionable situation of the wood industry. But the concessions should be a reflection of the real state and not of unrealistic expectations. It seems to me that with us also Minister Milan Pogačnik is a kind greeting and an initiative to the competent ministry to set up a coordinating council for forestry, which permanently directs the activity of forestry, to seek common strategic objectives and to set boundaries between individual stakeholders in forestry. This would be once again the emphasis that we have already given at the beginning and the thought that the management of state, including forest funds, could be taken over by positive and negative demands of the public forestry service, which I think is working well in Slovenia, but of course it is quite extensive and has several reserves in its operation. The emphasis should also be placed on whoever is already working in the Slovenian forests, so that it is adequately equipped and secured. I have already pointed out the proper construction, roads and bridges and flexible legislation. Today, elaborates for road closures, signs and more are not worth more than what we actually take that moment out of the forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar will not discuss it? Mrs. Breda Pecan will not discuss it. Mr. Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all those who still hold out in the hall. At first, I didn't mean to come by, and I'm not going to talk about a report that's solid. I was tempted to think that there was virtually no parliamentary group, which, in its presentations, as well as the majority of colleagues and colleagues, appealed for an amendment to the fund law, which would allow or correct the error that was committed last year. I listened to these appeals with a measure of surprise. I am one of the two who committed crimes in 1998 in the Fund Act even the possibility of transferring the backed-up building land from the fund, which was a logical one, to the municipalities. But look at the fragment! Last year, when this change of law came, about which there was so much talk here today, and also on the committee I hear, in the National Assembly, virtually no one protested, it was even a breach of procedure. And I myself, who accidentally replaced a colleague in a competent homework body, found this and warned that we were in violation of the law on local self-government, that we were violating the ecclatic Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Well, then the majority just missed out and we cut off the treatment and sent the law to the congregation for discussion, as prescribed in the law, for 30 days. But the archives of the National Assembly must have preserved how modest the reaction was from congregations or local communities. I must say that one of the associations was asked to write, for God's sake, a common position of the congregations if they ignored it. This nationalisation has happened many times before, it is criminal and in some ways I am satisfied, but this change of law would not be necessary and appeal after these changes if we acted a little more responsibly last year. I am pleased that even those who voted last year or those of the parliamentary groups who voted in favour of this amendment to understand this mistake, but a mistake would not be necessary if they behaved in a sober and responsible manner. It is true, however, that since 1998, this is practically more than 10 years ago, there has always been a conflict between two views in Slovenia. Among those who have advocated that it is imperative to transfer building land to the municipalities, that it is logical, that it is a function of the development of local communities and of life, and those who have prevented it. My rich experience with the management of the Fund, the various managements of the Fund, is that, as a rule, the management of the Fund has been against this transfer and, therefore, these transfers in the past have not occurred to the extent possible, urgently and necessary. Today, it was mentioned as a consequence of what is happening now. The land is managed by a management company. Not long ago we listened to this company's report, and forgive the expression, such nonsense, that now through building rights the company manages the building land on behalf of the fund, I will say, or on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, they set up a school on it and now the municipality as an investor of the school pays the building's right to infinity or for 99 years. If this is a function of the fund and as a consequence of the management company, then something is wrong with us. But this is a consequence and there at the management company would be very happy if these tasks and these administrative works, which are not simple, with building rights and are unnecessary, were disposed of. There is something else, however, that all the years since we adopted the first version of the law on coherent regional development are always forgotten in the Republic of Slovenia, that not only is the Law on Funds, whatever it is, the basis for transferring land to municipalities, but it is also the Law on coherent regional development. This is literally ignored, as it is clearly stated there when it comes to the development function of local communities, the State may also transfer its assets under this law. So the palette was the solution if it were the right political will. But I'm not only troubled by this narrow relationship between the state or the fund, the management company, the local community. This is a broader problem; it is a problem of public interest in land at the level of local communities. I will illustrate this with the necessary land, whether agricultural, forestry, which are urgently needed or actually in the function of protected areas or water protection zones. [[...]] The fact is that the former sociopolitical congregations or, at that time, the congregations had to buy out a number of these lands. This has not been donated, this has not been obtained, especially where the procedures in the Commission were under way, it was necessary to redeem. Or from ex-combats or private owners. As a result of the establishment regime in these protected areas, forests were generally afforested and forested. However, only the former GGs could manage the forests under the legislation at the time, and the municipalities had to transfer them free of charge to the GGs. These legal persons were obliged to transfer these assets to the fund free of charge during the property-owned phase. And now so, the congregation has bought, mowed, transferred to the GGs, GG has transferred to the fund, and now a lot of them can't get it back. Not to develop further. However, it is a matter of public interest, because I think that the protection area is a public interest, because now the state has taken the responsibility of deciding on these water protection areas so that this will now be easier to see. In any case, this problem is also disorderly. That's it. Otherwise, I would repeat myself with what has already been said in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman won't discuss it. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u122	Your Honor! If you'll allow me first, I'd like to give you my compliments, if I may, to Mr Franz Bogovich, who had a remarkable performance and told us quite a few truths. Of course, the topic we are discussing is that of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment and Space. I am very, and probably all the mayors are pleased with this announcement of a change in legislation announced by Mrs Sonja Bukovec, because the mayors have long been in the community, and at the community association we request that we come to these concessions, that we transfer the building land to the municipalities and many other things that have already been mentioned today, but that we do not repeat. It seems strange to us that we should actually pay the congregations or buy something that was once ours and that we were literally flattered. Exploitation costs us a lot, too. It has already been said about the infrastructure, the paved roads and, of course, the toll payments for that truck do not outweigh this damage. I would like to commend forest economies and foresters who care for forests in the face of all the problems that exist in this area. In Goriška we also have the so-called Trnovo Forest, which is literally emptied for the benefit of Italian buyers. I mentioned the Ministry of Environment and Space for a simple reason, because there are many different explanations about the law that prevents scattered construction. I must say that many who come from Europe to our area, to this rurally populated area of the thorn-bay planet and so on, are surprised that the resident has stayed there. This, of course, costs the local community a lot, but it is also an extremely important action by the state and the local community that we have a population there. Today, this legislation does not even allow for the construction of a barn near a building that has been there for 300 years. The reasons, as I have pointed out, are different. That is why we also expect reasonableness from the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, because many times our explanations of why we demand a change in the destination of agricultural land do not fall to fertile ground. Whether it be infrastructure or some important facilities. I must say that at least in Goriška or in Novi Gorica there is no development completely possible. Natura reaches the city, the area of agricultural land, where corn grows to its knees, where the wheat they sow is then packaged, is not reaped, because it is not an effect, because it is an ivy and heavy land, it is impossible to build anything because 1A is an agriculturally protected land. Let me say that it is with us, and this has already been said today, and it is very important, it is the great fear of local communities that foreigners will pick us up. We know that we are in Europe, all of which I will not explain now, but money dealers come to Goriška hill, money is put on the table and is their own vineyards. Amazing profits come from the fact that their wine is then sold under the Kolja brand much better than if they bought it somewhere near Vipava and other areas. Those seven million that remain somehow in this agricultural land fund could probably be usefully used to enforce the pre-emptive rights and then give those vineyards, those very valuable leased land to farmers, to those who are interested. That's still a lot of problems. I would also like to mention the threat to these areas of wildlife. Not only the present wolves in Crassus, but also the wild pigs make a beautiful meadow on the trnovo-Banja plateau in one night into a preorned field, which, after being treated by a farmer, is assessed as a field and not more than a meadow, resulting in different taxation and many more. We know that the role of the Fund is important and that a number of things should be changed, especially what I have said, because we really expect the realisation that the words of Mrs Sonja Bukovec come true, that the local community comes to these lands that are essential for development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u124	Well, hello, all of you! When we talk about the report, about the work of the Fund, in fact, every year the issues are similar or even the same, but what I read in the Committee's report really surprised me, namely that one of the key shortcomings is that the agricultural land register is still not definitively established. After all these years, we don't even know what it is that owns the country or the management of the fund. That the numbers vary enormously, twice, say from 50,000 to ninety thousand, what these numbers really mean. I think it is easy to make only one conclusion out of this: let us stop dealing with the management of agricultural land and forests in the way it is done so far. Let us conclude the denationalisation in order to understand each other, sell what is to sell agricultural land, and transfer to the congregations what is important to the congregations. Let us make a fund, or whatever it is, for the forests and let this country have a range of protected forests and be masters over them, and everything else should actually be managed where it is. It is not possible after all these years to record that you have no records, that you do not know that they are unresolved and so on. That's simply not true, and at thirty-three people, at two, three ends, it's written down, and that's what they would do if they had enough people. Please, thirty-nine people to do fifty-five thousand hectares is one way or another too much, not too little. And the cost of execution is too great. My conviction is that there is a need to make a change, not redefine the roles of the Fund as you wrote, but redefine the whole issue that the Fund deals with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. Greetings to Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Head of the Fund. In a few words, I will limit myself to the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. I note from the report submitted on the work of the Fund's Supervisory Committee for 2007 that a wide range of actions have been taken towards achieving both long-term and short-term objectives for the Fund's operation. The Supervisory Committee has done its work well in terms of a quality committee over the legality of the work of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also one of its key tasks. Here I would point out only one which I have observed in the report, namely a well-quality work done in the area of the identification of undeclared surfaces. It is 11,314 hectares owned by the Fund and not leased, and individuals who processed these land owned by the Republic of Slovenia received subsidies for them. However, the Fund did not have a lease agreement for these lands. Some of the work will probably still have to be done in land leases co-owned by natural persons and in the course of unfinished comassation proceedings, and in the case of land subject to property litigation. It is also good, as the report shows, that the professional services and the management body of the Fund have been constructively involved with the Supervisory Committee. I couldn't say that the report is not a reflection of the actual state of affairs, but I don't think that some things could have been done better. However, I am convinced that the management of the Supervisory Committee Fund, led by the President, has done its work well or in accordance with the applicable rules. Of course, proposals for improving the functioning of the Fund are certainly welcome and worthy of consideration as well as consideration. I will vote in favour of this report by the Supervisory Committee and also for the two proposed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The supervision of the forest fund should be more effective as it happens to us that the interest of forest owners and the interest of capital prevails in the area of local communities, as some of the responsible and mayors are on the side of the interest of capital and development itself leads to the same development, which is by no means acceptable to the majority of the population. It also happens that the initial purpose of the construction, which was in the interest of the State, is to withdraw, the highway in particular, and the building land remains, and the municipality is immediately included in its spatial plan, subject to the interest of capital, and is ready to immediately demolish 6 hectares of forest in the first phase, and then more than 20 hectares, although there are many open possibilities for construction in the municipality, including those that have already started and have now stopped, probably due to recession. I do not know why the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is closing its eyes against such unnecessary and harmful deforestation, as such work is irreparable damage. The increasing impact of nature suggests that forests are still needed to calm the winds and are not just raw materials for processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. There was a great deal of talk here today in this hall. There was something that commended the Fund's better operation than it had been in recent years, and of course some criticism that could be even better. I would, however, have initially touched on the very definition or title of this fund. The Fund of Agricultural Lands is a public institution which manages agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I think the status itself is very well-behaved and is talking about what their job is. In recent years there have been many unoccupied lands. This was pointed out at each meeting when we discussed or when it addressed the subject. Once again, I am pleased that, compared to 2006-2007 alone, this lack of land has reduced by 70%. There was a lot of talk about the distribution of the concession fee from the forest floor profit between the municipality and the country. At first glance, this is certainly a good move. However, we must be aware that the Fund's basic strategy is actually to increase forest areas owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We must be aware that by the end of last year, the Fund has returned to denationalisation beneficiaries as many as 80,000 hectares of forests under the Denationalisation Act. It is clear from this that the share of state forests has therefore decreased significantly. We're even talking 30%. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that in recent years the Fund has devoted most of its resources to the purchase of forests, in fact, from concession activities. That's why I'm saying something. There will be a change in legislation and part of the concession fee will be given to the municipalities, I think it is necessary to very precisely and precisely define the way or the source of the financing of forest purchases itself. You'll have to be pretty careful here. As for trading the fund with unwalled building plots, I support and agree to change. However, there is also a need to be very careful in the drafting of new legislation. In my view, however, the Fund should retain part of the building land, as only in this way could it generate sufficiently efficient revenue for purchases, for a country of strategically interesting land. The amendment of municipal acts changes the destination of land from agricultural land to buildings. As a result, agricultural land is decreasing, which is logical. If the fund transfers all building land to municipalities free of charge, the share of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Slovenia will be continuously reduced, as the fund will no longer have the resources to maintain the size of agricultural land. There will be a great deal of caution and tact in drawing up the text of amendments to this legislation. Of course, I wonder if it's even necessary, and I'll tell you why. In the Government’s normative plan or in the public eye, it has been repeatedly heard that the current coalition is seriously counting or seriously considering the introduction of the provinces. And if the landscapes are introduced, then this amendment to the legislation we are talking about today, if there are provinces in 2010, 2011, I don't know, then it's really unnecessary to amend this legislation. I am saying this because today all that we are talking about could be resolved if we supported provincial legislation in the past term. As of 1 January 2009, agricultural land owned by the Republic of Slovenia was planned to be transferred free of charge to the property of the provinces. This is from the draft laws we discussed in the previous mandate. Building land, the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia shall be transferred free of charge to the municipalities on 31 December 2008. The forests managed by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the agricultural land designated by law as non-land land, which are ecologically or functionally linked to the forest and together with it ensure the fulfilment of the functions of the forest, shall remain the property of the Republic of Slovenia. And then the next thing. The Ministry of Agriculture shall, by 30 June 2009 at the latest, transfer by contract to the individual provinces and municipalities of its own agricultural land located in their territory. And the last. By 30 June 2009 at the latest, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia shall be regularly disposed of, and an operator shall be appointed on the remaining tasks of the Fund and the transfer of real and financial assets to the provinces and municipalities in accordance with this Act. From all of this, we can see that these problems that we are currently dealing with would not, in fact, be anymore. And if the coalition is serious about establishing landscapes, then it is wise to consider first whether it is worth changing the law and legislation for just one year or even for half a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The Chair of the Fund's Supervisory Board, Mrs Maria Oswald, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Maybe I owe you something. First, I'd like to give Mr Brulco an explanation, because I come from Goriška too, and if I have any area under the magnifying glass, I have a certain mountain area. And I guarantee you that in the mountainous area, the fund - the fund does not behave like a migrant and no money trader sells his land - strictly adheres to the Agricultural Land Fund Act, otherwise I would like to see that individual items in the law change so that it can have priority in purchasing certain land that does not have it today. If some land was sold at a price which was overestimated, the Fund could not be included in this. If you mean this Brd area in Neblem, they were shoppers. And if the Slovenians bought it, it's just to say hello. If they had better conditions 50 years ago and lived better than we did, and today they can buy our land, our farmers just can't afford it. Otherwise, I guarantee you, there was no mistake in the area of Nova Gorica. And perhaps another explanation to Mr Anderlich on that paragraph, which I have read, that the Fund has not yet established the initial records of the underlying assets and that they are not in line with the situation in nature, it would be good to understand them in the context that the free land is still in co-ownership with the natural persons, that there are still incomplete comassations, that there are still decades of land-book exchange, judicial disputes over ownership and sometimes some error in the book. But it's not half the land funds. I'm sure you don't. It may be 10,000 hectares or less, but in the context of these large areas that are, even as a percentage of such surfaces, errors are allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Perhaps another explanation is why it is necessary, however, that unpaved building sites move to the congregations and that, after all, the provinces are not the solution to this problem. The Basic Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has not provided for the Fund to manage unbuilt building land. The solution, which was then recorded in Article 14, has in fact changed the wallless "building" in quotations, to agricultural but only at a time when the fund has them in the lease and if it sells them, it sells them at the price of the building land. The current law also mentions that, following the implementation of the denationalisation decisions, agricultural land and forests are determined in accordance with the law to be passed on to local communities. The legal solutions are therefore already adopted and envisaged and thus the purpose and purpose of the operation and the existence of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the provinces are concerned, even if we are thinking about having the provinces of these lands, I think we can all imagine very well that the province will not be the one building the water supply, schools, or all the buildings that need to have, so that you can apply all the needs in the local environment, but the congregations will still be the ones who will have to do it. Even so, nothing changes with the provinces, the burden still remains in the municipalities, the roads will still have to be maintained and the more burdened they will be to harvest timber or agricultural crops, the greater costs will be incurred. And also the Environmental Protection Act, I repeat, already now provides that part of the concession of property owned by the State for which the concession is granted belongs to the local community in whose territory this income is also generated. Otherwise, I understand that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests wants to preserve as much as possible such assets, which have an extremely high price on the market, and thus is an important player in the real estate market. But if he does not invest even the euro in making some land more valuable than it is, let's just say, if it's just agricultural or forestry, then there's something really wrong here. Invest in it and then try to market it. Not that you don't invest anything, but then you try to take it all out. Also with regard to other matters that have already been said today. Of course, the fund is an extremely important player in rural development. And I reiterate that until this point, he has not fully or very little taken into account this opportunity and the opportunity he has. That's why these things need to be changed. I think that much of this problem is being resolved by the Committee's conclusions, but of course much more will have to be done in the future, so that this relationship between the Fund and the development needs in a given environment will indeed be harmonised. And I'm just going to give a little plastic show, because today we've talked a lot about foresters paying too little concessions and so on. The state has a 70% state-owned company; it is specifically Snow White, Kočevska Reka. And you can look closely at both the business of this company and the whole principle from the moment of reference of the log or wood to the cutting, assembly and then the sale on the market. So all this process can be followed in detail by a mechanism that needs to remain what the concessionaire needs for its existence and development, as well as what the state and the fund need to justify economic management of state assets. We must be aware, however, that even after these concession contracts have expired, there will be a renegotiation, of course, of competition on the market, I think, much more difficult than the award of the concession to present concessionaires. Slovenia has entered the European Union and also companies from Italy, Austria will be happy to run for concessions. If we do not know in Slovenia that we also need strong companies in the field of forestry to be competitive with Austrian, Italian, then I think that there is something very wrong in this thinking or that we are selling our national property or giving it to manage and manage the concession to someone who will, of course, do so with great joy and also with great pleasure this wood to an even greater extent than is happening today, export it to Italy or Austria. I think that, right now in Slovenia, we lack a relation to this wealth in the sense of establishing a mechanism, that this wood is actually going to be in Slovenia, not only wood for the industry, but we are also thinking a lot about energy sources, we are thinking a lot about whether we will meet the Kyoto agreement or meet the criteria for CO2 and so on. But some concrete measures by the country to actually enable this in Slovenia are not detectable. So in this area, we really have a lot of work to do, but it's not only about the operation of the Fund, but it's really about the coordinated functioning of both the Ministry of Agriculture, the environment and, above all, the economy, which is responsible for trying to also create energy efficiency production, and, finally, the Ministry of Labour. And if we know how to stimulate technologies in Slovenia that will be able to process and receive non-priced raw materials or more expensive raw materials than we sell to Italy or Austria, then we have done a lot for the whole management process and the management of state assets, and not least that really the greatest gain or added value remains in Slovenia. We have not yet brought this moment to this limit to make it possible. And if anything, I would expect that in the future we would really talk seriously about the entire chain, from the planning that the Forest Office has, to the harvesting of wood, sales and, of course, processing itself. This circle must be fully concluded in Slovenia, and I hope that this will be one of the new and major challenges, including with local communities. The fact is that land to develop such a program is trying to provide the municipality again, and even if the municipality owns land that is defined as an unwalled building, you can finally obtain European funds to equip such land municipally. This land is also cheaper because of this. Of course, if you buy this land from the fund to equip it municipally, normally this price is significantly more expensive and it is not an incentive to develop either to a local company or to any other company that could come into this environment and organise production and processing in our space. Of course, the European market is open, we are susceptible to the fact that this capital is coming to us, but if someone wants to invest it, they should also invest it in this form, so that it will not only cut it but that it will try to fertilize it with processing in Slovenia as well. I think that even through the ownership of these lands, the municipalities here are an excellent partner, which can actually also help in this chain to ensure that good cooperation between all the departments - or if we say between the Government and the congregation - is that we also achieve this goal. Thus, these proposals made by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food are very important and, of course, I will also support them, including the Group of Members, and I certainly hope that most of them are here in Parliament today. Finally, we will give the Fund the basic task it should carry out to really specialize in managing agricultural land and state forests. The other things are, of course, an object, but I think, of course, of the other institutions that we have already mentioned today and are also set up to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking for an application, because I can see a few hands. Check-in is on. Please, Mr. Secretary, press. Not yet, but press the button. I'll take into account that I warned you, because this is the first time I've ever given you my word. Each debater has 5 minutes at his disposal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. Let me apologize for not being present at the first part of the debate because there was a meeting of the Government, but it is a mag. Sonja Bukovec had an introduction, as I was informed. However, as far as I have been following the debate, of course I agree with many debaters who have stressed that certain things need to be worked out and changed in this area. At the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, of course, we have also set ourselves as a priority under this year's normative programme in the drafting of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands. At the same time, we have also found that, despite the fact that it is not in the normative plan, some of the content in the Agricultural Lands Act needs to be completed as well, and even I believe that you will also get relatively quickly after the procedure prescribed at the parliamentary tables of additions and amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act in a variant that will allow for the elimination of really urgent administrative problems and technical problems that limit effective functioning in this area. With regard to the debate on the Fund for Agricultural Lands, however, I would like to say that I have heard everything in the debate, all the current issues that we have discussed at the Ministry, from the register of agricultural land, the question of destination, including the rounding of property, which is not really relevant, even on purchases and, of course, sales. It also seems to me that it is a very important question of the relationship and role of municipalities, then the question of incomplete rules, the question of the transfer of building land, then the definition of public interest on certain surfaces and, of course, other content that somehow binds not only to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but also to the Ministry of Environment and Space. We are preparing a broad debate in which we need to clarify just over forty, I could say, unresolved issues, which also touch on the content some of the debaters have mentioned; for example, Mr Brulc has mentioned some of the content, damage and so on, including the agricultural land management policy. I must disappoint someone here, the Minister for Agriculture is undoubtedly a representative of farmers and agriculture, and in this segment we will certainly protect the best agricultural land. We also understand the needs of local communities to expand them and, in the context of appropriate dialogue to establish new ones, for example, agricultural areas can be tackled in many ways. These interviews, I could say, are certainly taking place every day, the requests and requests for an interview are large and we are trying to be, to the greatest extent, not conspirators, but facilitators of processes that are beneficial to citizens and citizens, to local communities and, of course, to the priorities that we have, and this is Slovenian agriculture. I think that the debate I thank you for is a very good basis. All lawmakers who work intensively must be told that the working groups work intensively. It can even happen and it will happen that changes and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act will even come earlier on your bench as a compliance law. Nevertheless, we all have a deadline for this in our normative programme, which is the end of September and October 1st, when the law is supposed to be in government procedure. I hope that the programme they set up - even after the debate - is very much in line with the debate that was held today in the National Assembly, and I thank you for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary, Head of the Fund, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I am really glad that, at this point of the debate, the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is also a lot of substantive talk on the substantive issue, which is particularly felt by the municipalities. Thus, it was heard that agricultural land was to be transferred to the congregations, since the congregations would have much more control over these lands. They would be available both to replace them with those real farmers who need them for their basic production, when it comes to infrastructure, roads, also state roads and similar situations. The forests also represented a source of survival in the countryside. Back in the old days, when the countesses lived and were the Earl's forests, these farmers lived off of it in these places. Today, the concessionaire with the heavy machinery of these forests is cutting out. The locals, even the municipalities have none of this and the concessions are very low compared to the value of this wood, which is mainly exported across our borders, so it stands quite low in our domestic wood industry. As I have already said, they are very important for the conservation of rural areas and rural settlements, and this particular agricultural land and forests must be given special attention to this topic also on a second occasion. Maybe even when it comes to granting concessions. The affected remind me why the domestic wood industry would not get concessions and this wood would be processed in Slovenia. This would preserve jobs, factories are already standing, equipment is - and similar thinking. We don't know if there's gonna be anything to cut in five years or how many years after these concessions are over. I'm so glad there was so much to be said about it. I will support the report of the Supervisory Board, as well as the two proposed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u140	It's probably a waste of repeating everything that's been happening for years and years, but since you're trying to defend something that's not good, something you should change, and it's a time to just admit that the fund has played a historic role and that it's become a burden to itself and to the whole country. You're telling me the numbers don't differ. I'm reading your report. On day 31. 12. 2007 according to actual use data, the Fund manages 55,518 hectares of agricultural land suitable for agricultural processing. Due to the misalignment of the cadastra with the state of nature, the data on the land actually suitable for processing differ from that of the official cadastra, according to which the fund has 94,000 hectares. This is your report on page 17. So, I don't know how to read, I don't want to speculate, maybe the guy you recently fired has accurate records. I don't know, maybe. Did he export them with his computer programs to Bosnia or elsewhere? But you'll have to do it as supervisors and the Ministry. One of the key things, in addition to denationalisation in another place, is the transport of agricultural land and forests, sculptures, comassations and so on and so forth - of this nothing. Or you write on three ends to sort out, say, you write for an area there that some roles will come in a few years' time to be treated because people want to buy land. I think that everything that's under the acre or under the arre and so on, which you have all over Slovenia in the middle of a variety of plots that you don't even know about, or know about, or know about them, so that you can sell them smoothly to your neighbors and those there would be interested. What do you have to do with the transport of building land - I really don't know! This is not the work that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is supposed to do. This is a matter where the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of the Economy could at least be able to do so. But as it is said, the starting point for this to be passed on to the provinces - it was well thought out - but I do not see any obstacles to not looking from case to case and this is settled with municipalities in bilateral talks, with transfer contracts. But I think what can be sold, and most of it can be sold to sell. It is unacceptable that the fund rents huge amounts of land to the sovereigns, "multiple" once a year, 90 euros pay rent, receive a subsidy of 500 and more euros - this is unacceptable! It's just pouring money into some people's pockets that happened to be with the people you're operating with. The municipalities and some communities have serious problems that they cannot plan their own development. I know a lot of cases when we can solve them. Here, too, someone has talked about how certain things could be regulated by congregations within their jurisdiction, with their inhabitants, both farmers and entrepreneurs and so on, and with appropriate replacements, sales, and so forth, could solve a number of problems. With the hundreds of people you have, and you say that you still have very little to do in a few years, that you can solve the simple role of buying or replacing so that you won't save them in a few years - that's simply cynicism; cynicism that doesn't tolerate serious judgment what we're actually doing in this country. It's got to be done at the beginning. I believe the Ministry will see what the fund has done so far. So, he did the role - and it is necessary to reserve for denationalisation what is yet to be completed - traffic does not take place, which was a fundamental task, commissions and so on does not carry out, investments in land improvement are small. However, I am absolutely committed to having the country do the same as Austria or any other country's protected forest fund, which it will also manage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Director of the Agricultural Land Fund with colleagues! Well, after so many years of operation, the Agricultural Land Fund seems to me today to be dealing with this report on some sides improperly spitting on it, what its work is and what it is not, and what it should be and so on. In fact, I think the fund worked under the law. We adopted legislation here, but it was prepared by the government, one or the other. And those who had the most of these powers in their hands were the ones most guilty of the bad legislation they were preparing, but the fund was implementing its own. But I am deeply in agreement with the Minister, as well as with some of the statements in the report that you have written down that some things need to be changed. After all, we are also Members and Members of Parliament and the Government, to live with the days, that is, with the flow, but not to read the Levites back. I agree that - Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, the Government - should make it possible for local communities to influence both agricultural land and forests. I do not agree with those who say that forests should be left to some kind of state property, but I think it is imperative that the Institute of Forests be provided as an excellent regulator - because there is a lot of expertise and God does not allow this to be wasted in this country - for the fund to function in some other form and to have control over the operation of agricultural land as a regulator. As far as building land is concerned definitely, see when municipalities propose to change the spatial plan, build roads, sewerages and so on, they get approval from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When they get this, those lands are automatically transferred to the municipalities; that is, when they become buildings, but not that their price is raised from 10 to 20 times, even when it comes to infrastructure. I'm not saying if it's some kind of merchant building and so on, where there's going to be a private profit. By no means do I understand, and all of us in the congregations on our own skin have also tried not to get land to build sewerage, and under God there is no other way than that parcel that is. In addition, you even get European funds and you can't build it because the state, the congregation fund, the local community doesn't trust it, doesn't, in short, make it impossible for it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is definitely something to be done about the operation of these regional units. These regional units have cabinets of unprocessed documentation years and years ago, and you also point out in the report that the tasks of regional exposures are not done. Minister, the pre-emptive right to pre-emptive rights or the right to purchase land by the fund. Farmer A and farmer B. Farmer A is the one who, for example, is educated, even the one who really deals with agriculture; but farmer B is the one who has a certain land at work, and who sells corn. But since that one's closer to, I don't know a piece of the fund, he gets a farmer B land to process. This is totally unfair, unfair and in order to preserve what we want to do, this legislation should be amended. It will be better if, of course, local communities can and will cooperate. Today, we do not know: neither with anyone, nor ever, nor for how many years concession contracts have been signed. In this way, it is difficult for the congregations to, I will say, develop their projects in that environment as well as the development of agriculture and agriculture. You have a lot of work to do here, and it would be good if we had the right answers to the already exposed things, but once we've drawn up the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm glad the Minister of Agriculture is among us. Changes are necessary, changes in the Fund's work are necessary, they need to be immediately. However, the responsibility for the work so far may or may not be claimed from the current director - for the poor to be understood, not for the good work - or for you to accept it, for the bad work, the respected minister. It's not acceptable for him to be fooling around here today, you know. Mr Brulc asked the question, and he got, I'll say, inaccurate information or - I'm not going to say that someone was lying. See, on March 6, 2008, it will be one year from when we wrote to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that they are happening in the Agricultural Land Fund a strange matter. We also described two ways in which foreigners come to Slovenian land, in our view this is a national issue. Listen that someone who is not a resident of Slovenia can buy agricultural land in Slovenia in this way, we have been warning for three years and nothing has happened. The first way is to establish cooperatives, of course there is one of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in this cooperative, and then there are Italian residents in the rear, and even Italy makes favourable loans. I also gave an example of a farm cooperative in Brda, which was essentially denied by a supervisor, even though she had enough to say in the newspaper. I myself have spoken with Branko Tomažič, who is also, I will say, the fund supervisor, and I have written this in this question. The second case is when legal entities are established, d.o.o.-ji or d.d.-ji. This may also be the case with a foreign national, and Slovenians approach this recapitalisation so, of course, they are previously urged to bring the land to this basic value of the company, which the owner later bought back. That's what our government knows - and nothing happened! About the woods. How wood is sold and how nuclei are actually made. The minister and I made sure. Now, he was with me recently, visiting us in Primorska - I am pleased to be able to introduce him to all the pressing problems of agriculture - and we have seen in Senożec, the case of rabbit - goloseks. And this land, which has also been leased by the fund! And you know who's driving away the biomass? In all these cases, the stranger is the one who then picks up the good of our forest - of course for very small flowers and takes it as a great product. The Italians did not do what we allowed when they were doing the Holocaust in Primorska for the needs of Venice. It's a shame that's allowed! Today, we have a real purchase of the Rapal border from Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, shopping! There are 60 million of them, and there are 2 million of us, and if you do so, the Slovenian land will grow smaller and smaller. That's what we warned you not to say we're running a demagogy. We've been warning you about this for six years, and nothing happened. And I will not blame the former government, nor do I expect the former government to do anything! This is not about the illegal operation of the Fund, about the non-transparent operation of the Fund, it is about issuing Slovenian national interests; and please, Minister, let us know the actual situation. We will be you again - and today there have been very critical comments from others. I believe that Members in a position would also say sharper words if we should. I have also spoken with them, with the Members of the position. We'd be even more critical if we should. But they said great irregularities here today, and we can't say that everything is fine, for God's sake, if it isn't. I expect immediate changes in the area of relevant legislation that regulates the operation of the Fund or simply, as we have suggested, the abolition of the Fund. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Why wait for regions if we can simply give these lands to the congregations? [[...]] This will also increase the possibility of municipalities operating transparently, economically and that they are less dependent on the state budget. I believe that mayors in all municipalities have such apparatus that they will be able to operate this land economically. Why do we have to have some kind of fund? Why does it have to be in Ljubljana? Why do we have to let this shit happen today? I'd like to ask you the answers to these questions. You've got them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote in half an hour. That's 17 hours and five minutes. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour, at 17 minutes and 5 minutes, by voting on the decisions to all items on agenda item 2 of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u146	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats in the hall. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Tank, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Borut Pahor to Mr Jožet Tank's question on human resources exchanges. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties. I think the debate is urgent. This debate may show who are those remaining in certain positions and those who are being replaced and those who are new to certain positions. Surely there is something wrong and wrong and why we should hide it from the public and from the Members. I think it makes sense that this is being discussed and that it is before the public - although I must say that this public is increasingly reduced, since the second programme no longer tolerates what is happening in the National Assembly - but I think it makes sense to learn a little more about what is going on in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. The President of the Government has announced a new human resources paradigm, it is said that replacements will only take place in official posts and that there will be no replacements in directorships in the Directorates and also in the Services. And if there is to be a replacement here, it should only take place on the basis of a reasonable suspicion that the work was not well done. These predictions do not come true and are being violated from the very appointment of the Government. There are five exchanges in the Directorates, then there are seven alternate secretaries-general of the ministries, replaced by UKAM Director, replaced by Kad Director-in-Office, replaced by 11 supervisors, three members of the JAPI Board, three members of the Management Board of the Film Fund and so on. And this is just the beginning of these substitutions, because there are predictions of new procedures and new replacements. The so-called "Shooting Letter" is also in operation, which describes all officials who were employed in the mandate of the previous government. Many of these officials had already been reassigned, some of them had to leave, probably because of pressure or mobile phones. He also announced publicly that some employees cannot find work because they are from other political parties. And all of this is contrary to the statement made by the Prime Minister of the Government, who has made a public statement and has also made a promise to people that he will not: "replace no man in public office unless there is reasonable doubt that he has not done his job well. Not a word will I ask him which world view or political definition he belongs to." But apparently political affiliation has become an exclusive criterion, even so that you don't even get a job where you can work and where you have a job. New personnel are coming into office, political personnel such as Dr. Draško Veselinovic, Member of the Liberal Democracy, Director of the Energy Directorate has become mag. John the Ripper, and there will likely be a great deal of this political workforce. The concept promised by the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, who gave it before the elections, and also repeated it several times here in the National Assembly, does not take place and with each appointment we find that the recruitment policy takes place differently. And since this is going on differently, I propose that we hold a debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 39 votes in favour, 39 against 39. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 39.]] No decision is taken. Not accepted. I should have been adopted if I had been one more vote. In line with the proposal by Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to the question of Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the NATO Union. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today the Republic of Slovenia is expected to allow Croatia to enter the NATO Pact. A big mistake we're going to make and we're going to regret in a little while. This error is based on bad information provided by certain people to the Slovenian government, not only to the current President, Mr Pahor, but also to the previous presidents. There may also be some pressure on the part of the United States and the EU, which is pressing against the door for policies that must not vote otherwise. Perhaps this is an intensive plan to allow certain financial resources, for example when purchasing current government bonds, to be paid in some way by agreeing to Croatia's entry into the NATO Pact or something like that. All of this is well connected with the fact that, despite the three-day ringing and begging of Mr Pahor to get to Prime Minister Sanader, he failed to do so. It appears that everything is well arranged and agreed that, in my opinion, the Government has hidden those documents or that some government officials have hidden the difference between the documents submitted by Croatia at the time of its entry into NATO. We've looked at about 700 to 800 pages of them, but there are about tens of thousands or more of them. Also, maps of which one of the maps accidentally slipped among these documents and were seen and removed from this cluster did not allow our gentlemen to ring their bells in their heads and that the then heads of intelligence or then head of mission in Brussels at NATO knew and saw that something "does not count". Today, there are satellite recordings on the internet, as some gentlemen in Finland imagine where the border between Slovenia and Croatia is. Mr Ahtisaari is from Finland, and he is probably also thinking about these Mays, which are taking place mainly differently than the actual borders should take place. We should know that Croatia's entry into NATO is very closely linked to Croatia's entry into the EU. And the one who doesn't see it is, say, stupid. But whoever votes to get us in there on the nose is going to make a big mistake. However, who will vote against this decision to at least discuss it, I think we can qualify him as a traitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, I ask you to avoid such expressions as stupidity, traitors in the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 63. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 63.]] No decision is taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the question of the so-called deleted. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Discussment application. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The question of so-called deleted, I myself said two days ago that I don't even agree to this term, but I agree to the term transferred to another record. The term "deleted" is the consequence, I'll say, of the left and the journalistic ones who invented such expressions. The minister answered my question, but this answer is very flawed. Look, the number of these people was in 2003, when Mr. Rop led the government, 18.305. The number of these persons was 18.305, nothing happened. During these years from 2005 to today, the number of these persons increased to 24,000 by Monday and to 25.617 by Tuesday. These were official records of Minister Kresalova. Natural laws tell us that the number of these persons could be smaller but not larger, something is absolutely wrong here. The Ministry refers to the fact that it had inadequate computer technology in 2005, and now technology allows them to count well. I wonder if that's true. Of course, this is not true, as I know, nor have they changed technologies: otherwise, 25,000 or 18,000 entries can be counted into hands, which some officials can count on their hands, there is no problem in reaching numbers. So, in my opinion, the goal is to be completely different with this increase in the number of these people. What disturbed me in the Minister's response and strict deception, her deception, is the following. She argues: "In the supplementary decisions, there is no talk of compensation, we will do nothing about compensation, we will not decide on it, but we will study it carefully." That's not true. That's part of the truth. That's part of the truth. Of course, as soon as these persons receive the so-called supplementary decisions, they will be able to apply these supplementary decisions - not possible, but any normal person will use it in a property claim before a court, which is of course a completely different procedure. This part of the truth is completely, completely hidden to the public. I want to talk about it. I am afraid that this increase in the number of these persons, the so-called transferred persons, in my opinion, in another register, is also due to the fact that each time the minister is angry, insulted, appalled at the subordinates and that these subordinates see significantly larger numbers on this account as well. At least that's what practice shows. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u154	Gorenak, the Minister is not here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u155	Yeah, we're gonna invite her. So I propose that we hold a debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 47. [[in favour of 37 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47]] I therefore find that the decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold discussions at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, and Minister of Economy, Dr. Matey Lahovnik, to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak on the effects of the government measures taken so far to mitigate and avoid the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis on the Slovenian economy. So, the application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u157	I will probably not make a biased and political assessment if I say and say that it is also wider that the Government's actions are insufficient and, in fact, in some ways indecisive when we are talking about mitigating the consequences of economic uncertainty. This is also confirmed by the views of interest associations, the views of the Chamber of Economics, employers' associations and the like. Everyone expects stronger and more extensive government action, and the government actually acts in a confused way; and not only that, it also introduces additional uncertainty into the economic system. In fact, if economic operators do not know at all what awaits them in a year that has just started well, then it is very difficult to plan their business strategy and policy. Therefore, I believe that at least what it is, the economy needs very clear messages and information, whether the Government will offer, step by step, some mediocre measures, or whether it will prepare and offer a package of strong, effective measures to mitigate both the economic and financial crisis. That is why I have proposed that this debate be held in Parliament, that this discussion should ultimately also give rise to a clear view of these future measures by the Government. I myself advocate a more determined, more comprehensive and more substantial, stronger government action that must act quickly. I think there will be many missed opportunities if we work hard and postpone some measures that will be more and more remedial, not developmental. I think it is time to put in place development measures so that businesses can take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity as a challenge to restructuring. These measures are completely different than those measures when solved, which is to be resolved when companies and their operations are "under water" or in negative numbers. That is why I think this debate is necessary and, of course, I will support the conclusion that this debate is being held.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present and 37 votes against 47 Members and Members. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Aleksandr Zorn, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Culture, Mrs Majda Širca Ravnikar, to Mr Aleksandr Zorn's question on the announcement of the repeal of the decision on the provisional declaration of the market as a monument of State importance. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present and 37 votes against 64 Members. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Miran Györek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, to the question of Mr Miran Györek's parliamentary question regarding the inappropriate conduct of employees on police administrations. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48 Members. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - consideration of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the chapters and amendments tabled. As for chapter 1 of the draft report, we decide on the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 5. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 9. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to chapter 5 of the report. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that information was available in the means of public information, we also stress that we believe that the Ombudsman is absolutely right when he thinks that the status, the situation of deleted persons and everything in relation to them should be regulated by the ordinary law or by the continuation of the issuance of decisions should be followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. We have already considered that, in the last term, in order to regulate the situation and to correct what has been made by the State, that the Constitutional Court's decision is sufficient to do so and that the ordinary law is sufficient to do so. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much. See what happened on the parent's working body was the majority who, of course, voted there that it was necessary to approach the solution of this problem with the constitutional law. Today you are proposing an amendment in which you claim that the so-called supplementary decisions must be issued immediately on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, and of course you are also talking about the law you will propose in this area. You refer to the urgent need to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to believe you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u162	Dear Dr. Gorenak - explanation for the vote, not the controversy with the opposite views. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u163	I explain my voice why I advocate constitutional law. That's exactly what I'm doing. In fact, here in this Chamber, in a slightly different form, we have also - whether you were then Members - decided on another law. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the majority electoral system has won, you have drafted a new law that has passed the Constitutional Court's decision as a cylindrical. Then someone also said, "God can't order me to vote either." Therefore, I ask that we also become reasonable in this area and that we approach this issue in the way we have long advocated for the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is a constitutional law. By constitutional law, we do not deny anyone the right to exercise our rights under the Constitutional Court decision, of course, in a selective manner, in a way that will clearly verify that it will be clear what these people were doing in 1991 when this country bled. All of them must be acknowledged for what they are doing, who for objective reasons could not regulate this status, and those who did not want to regulate this status and who acted against that country, which was created at that time, should be prevented. And we can only do this by means of constitutional law. So only through a constitutional law that will solve this problem forever in a way that will not be able to open it anymore, because otherwise we will open the ordinary law all the time. I call on you, therefore, not to support the amendment and to stay with what you have accepted on the committee. But I'm afraid someone on the board has brainwashed you. Please, if, and I suggest yes, so [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] do not support this amendment. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u164	I would really like to point out once again that the explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members refers to the fact that the Group of Members explains how it will vote, rather than convincing other groups how to vote! Please, let's stick to this as much as possible. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think anyone's brainwashing because some people already have brainwashed. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] As far as this amendment is concerned, it must be said that it is in fact very strange — in disagreement with the committee’s decision, so that one wonders when someone has not listened or when he has thought or thought. Even in the Slovenian National Party, in the parliamentary group, we believe that constitutional law is urgently needed to review "ad personam" of various matters, not just to try to obtain 25,000 new voters. It's strange that I won't use another term. I can safely say it's against the state. And it is. Look, today we got a letter from former Yugoslav People's Army officers demanding on the basis of all this, that they be granted pensions, that they get compensation, and I don't know what they're all about. Take a look at the list of these officers - you will be very surprised, because usually these people in uniform have walked up and down Slovenia. And there are 5,000 minors on these lists! Where were these minors at the time they were supposed to be erased if they were not yet born?Oh, my God! Very interesting and very strange. In short, it's an abuse of everything together and they're trying to get into positions, political support. For 25,000 votes means so many and so many Members more and easier to rule, easier to share money, profits and all. If someone is deleted in this Slovenia, at least 250,000 of those citizens of Slovenia and citizens who live on the edge are deleted here. There's probably more of them today. Not 25,000, 350,000! There'll be 400,000 tomorrow. But it doesn't matter! These are Slovenians and Slovenes, these are our citizens, we will not worry about you. We will take care of those who have been so-called erased, those who have speculated and possibly fought Slovenia during our self-sustaining war, and many of whom have been on the battlefields of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on and have been driving for weekends "a little down to shoot themselves", and here we have received a pension. Many of these people do not want Slovenian citizenship. They want nothing but money. If you're up for it, give money out of your pockets, not out of the pockets of those poor people who barely spend a day.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Please login in your own name. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be supported and I do not support it for a number of reasons. One of the most important reasons is that we are not solving this amendment, but we are delaying the final solution to this issue. The second reason is that a good year ago, more precisely on 22 November 2007, when we considered the recommendations to the 2006 report of the Ombudsman, we adopted the sixteenth recommendation, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should adopt a constitutional law that will regulate the situation of the so-called deleted." Since then, we have also in the National Assembly this law, which is clear, clearly defines this relationship and it would be appropriate to settle this issue with this law, because once and for all we would resolve this problem. The reason why this matter should be regulated by constitutional law also stems from the fact that it was originally created by constitutional law, Article 13 of the Constitutional Act on the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is also right after this formal salary that a definitive problem resulting from inconsistent regulation in constitutional law is also a constitutional law. Such arrangements as the amendment brings will be [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Reopening and reopening this issue, it will never solve the problem definitively, and in the end it is also wrong not to settle the maximum amount of compensation that may belong to the beneficiaries, as provided for by constitutional law. [[...]] From all this, I think this amendment is harmful and I don't support it myself. That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Let me finish the thought I had previously intended, but I failed because of time. This means the parliamentary group will vote against this amendment. In my own name, let me put it another way. So why the constitutional law? And today, in the Slovenian public, there is a completely wrong view of how part of the Members or a certain political option advocates the solution of this issue, and how a certain political option, that is, ours, is against solving this issue. Of course that's not true. That is why we are proposing a constitutional law, because it is the constitutional law that can very clearly solve this matter further, with sufficient height, so that it can, of course, be closed for all eternity. Why? For a fundamental reason, since we can accurately prescribe the individual treatment of these persons in the constitutional law, we can individually look at what they were doing at the time. And I am deeply convinced that we cannot generalise things and say that the left side of Parliament is in favour, but the right side is, of course, against. That's not true. That's wrong. By means of constitutional law, we want to exclude only those persons who have acted against this country who have not cooperated in favour of this country and who also wish to impose extremely large compensations on this account. Let me remind you, 980,000 euros has so far been the highest demand. We can limit it in constitutional law. Please, I suggest we do this by voting against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u171	Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Respectable public! I apologize to you for stealing your time to listen to the fertilization in this high assembly, because I am a member of the Commission for Human Rights and Freedoms and Petitions, and I regret that, at a crucial time when it was accepted on the Committee of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I was failing because I had to carry out my duties on the other committee - just like my colleague Potratus. Perhaps things would have developed differently if the amendment's proposer on the committee had submitted this amendment to the hearing earlier, not only when we left, but today you would not have to listen to it at all, and I believe that most of the public would be pleased if it did not have to hear it. I'm sorry if I took more than a second and didn't directly explain my voice. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you a [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u172	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] a voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u173	I have said on the agenda that this country is based on respect for human rights and that this is enshrined in the preamble to the Constitution and in the preamble to the Constitution. [[...]] Thus, respect for human rights is based on this Constitution. Not in xenophobia, not in anything else. So the only way to vote for this amendment is to vote against the fundamental principles on which this country is based. So... [[...]] [[They warned us about the end of the debate.]] I can't make a choice at any given time. [[...]] But as for minors who have been erased, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u174	There's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u175	And I have to explain that eighteen minus sixteen is two. [[...]] So it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues! I will vote for this amendment because I really don't understand why we need a constitutional law. We have two constitutional decisions, very clear, which are some very clear interpretations of these decisions and if someone, as it seems, has committed something illegal in that period, there are other institutions, other institutions where it is possible to deal with it and to clear it. Not the collective injustice experienced by the 24,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia at the time. So it is not an intermediate interpretation or suggestion that constitutional law is needed. If the opposition sees that most of you are gone, I don't know why it insists, because it's not controversial, it's still part of my explanation. Therefore, I do not think that it is useful to think about the constitutional law, that it is necessary to vote in favour of these amendments. Thus, we will quickly break this spring snake of the story erased without getting involved in a new debate on a constitutional law that would not come to an end and would actually just play out the already-known constitutional decisions. By voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u179	Dude, thank you so much. Respectable associates and coworkers! I will vote for a simple and crystal clear reason. Yes, I am for the rule of law and for human rights and because I know that any other decision would mean either embezzlement or bluffing or a very non-tribal hate speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you. The late Dr Drnovšek and the current Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, have made it public that the adoption of the Constitutional Law would be the best solution to address this issue. Both of them were well aware of what this meant in terms of the very different aspects of people covered by the problem. We live in the days when much of the world, including in Slovenia many, has raised its voice against the use of cluster bombs, a tool for mass destruction, which is why civilians in the Middle East suffer. But cassette bombs also fell in Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, and among those who submitted the highest claims for compensation are some who can be proved to have been among the aggressors to the independent state of Slovenia. And the only way to eliminate you, so that speculators can not be rewarded and, on the other hand, not only to all Slovenes and Slovenes, but also to those new citizens and citizens who have settled themselves in the vast majority have their status regulated in accordance with the new Slovenian legislation, is that this is regulated by constitutional law and that this can be proved by the fact that we once, with Dr Bohince in a compromise text, have already been formulated. And Mr. Pahor, please use the power, trust that has been given to you in the elections, and repeat this procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u182	Mr Grimes, the Prime Minister cannot answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u183	However, we can express our will at this moment by not confirming the amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour and 37 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to chapter 7 of the draft report. We decide on the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter 7. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 80 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter 7. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 78 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the third amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 7. Mr. Chernač, on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the parliamentary group, who? I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The President of the Government, Your Honor! I'll vote against it. I can think about it my way, and I can imagine that this is the continuation of that amendment to Chapter 5. Someone can convince me it's not true, but I can see it that way because it's the exact year of 1991, and it's deleted. This is said to be the case, but now we will give some rights to the deleted in this chapter with an amendment that we will accept. Here we already demand that the Government prepare inter-sectorally coordinated legislative changes or measures to better address the housing problem of young families, and so on, which did not have an equal position since 1991. Someone can say that's not true, but that's how I see it. We've already started, and there's more to it. So it hasn't dried up yet, if I say so, our words that doesn't mean that the deleted gets everything that's been heard, we already have the next amendment that you've drawn up on this report. And I'm going to say this, I'm going to go against this amendment, because I'm for the rule of law and because I'm for human rights. But we have human rights for all, including Slovenian citizens, who already have citizenship, just like those who will gain it. If it applies to one another, then it also applies to the other. And I don't know why it's particularly necessary to make that recommendation right now. If money is already being prepared and excise duties are being increased in order to be able to pay all these compensation requirements from 1991 onward, then we do not need to accept such amendments as are still extending these rights. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u187	An explanation for this and the previous amendment, Mr President. I was a little late and you didn't see my hand when I picked it up. The previous amendment suggests that the Government should re-examine the effects and propose necessary changes in the subsidy of rents; rents are probably meant to ensure equal opportunities for all to obtain suitable housing. I must say that this recommendation has already been largely implemented. As of 1 January this year, the novelty of the Housing Act has been in force, allowing everyone to apply the subsidy to renters, including those living in so-called commercial rental apartments, but is always being improved. While I support all measures that lead to a faster and more effective resolution of housing problems. And I must say that in recent years we have witnessed many solutions in this area from recapitalising the Housing Fund to increasing funds for this purpose, to subsidising young people in particular in the first place, it is said that they have been able to obtain grants in purchases and so on. This amendment, I don't think it's possible to make it happen. If we want to realize what is written here, we need another Housing Law, which we adopted in 1991. I don't think that's possible. It's not real. Ambition should go in this direction, so that, in all areas not only in the environment but also in the financial and tax areas, we continue to pursue the policy that has been drawn up and that, on the basis of the operational programme, we will allow for a greater number of rental apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 32. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to chapter eight of the draft report. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 8. We're voting. There are 84 in attendance, 70 in favour, 8 in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to chapter 9 of the proposal for a recommendation. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 9. We're voting. There are 83 in attendance, 77 in favour, 4 in favour. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Chapter 9. We're voting. There are 82 present, 74 votes against 4. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to chapter 12 of the proposal for a recommendation. We decide on the first amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter 12. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 5. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter 12. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 4. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We have completed our decision-making on the amendments and the proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the 2007 Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, in full. We're voting. Explanation of voice. I'm sorry, I didn't see. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you, President. I, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, will truly support the report of the Ombudsman. We saw that this report was well written, complete. It deals with all the pressing problems of disrespect for human rights in our country. Above all, it is important that this vote and this support to the report make it clear once again that the Ombudsman Institute is one of the key actors in civil society and the control of civil society over the will of politics, which also happens in democratic situations. We have heard that this institution needs to be recognised, supported in its efforts and also by all other institutions that oversee the functioning of the country. In particular, in those segments relating to freedoms, to fundamental human rights and also to efforts not to overcome hate speech or repression or bullying of individual citizens and citizens. We therefore certainly vote "yes" and believe that this will contribute to a better treatment of this complex but very topical problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the SNS Group, we will not support this drawback, which some call the Ombudsman's Annual Report. Because of the so-called deleted and adopted amendment, we cannot support it. If we are Slovenian citizens, we should be concerned for our people, not that the Ombudsman or the guardian should take care of everyone else. We regret that we have not tabled another amendment to amend the title of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for the year then and then to write the Annual Report of the Ombudsman for the whole world for 2007. For our guardian has dealt much more with some marginals from around the world than with her own citizens, for whom she has not had and is not listening, but she certainly has a great deal in order to raise the financial contribution to this institution, that they are underpaid, that there are not enough people there and so on. After all, personal interests are absolutely in the foreground. The interests of others are only on paper, and as long as we take care of someone, we take care of others, not citizens of our own country. One wonders what kind of country it is that doesn't care about its people and is willing to take care of a stranger more than anyone. However, it is somehow as the Slovenian destiny shows, that we always work everywhere for foreigners, worship foreigners and are subject to them. Those who want to do something for their own citizens and for Slovenia usually get burned by having an enemy speech, not knowing what they are saying and things like that. Perhaps it would make sense for the coalition to prepare an amendment for next year to introduce a new form of verbal delinquency and to issue a book with prohibited words. Perhaps there would be 600 of the most basic words of the Slovenian language left in, everything else would be prohibited. Maybe that's what's coming. I hope the Prime Minister is so smart, he won't let that happen. For in the matter of the deleted, the Prime Minister showed sobriety and said it made sense to prepare a constitutional law. However, some trends within the coalition show that they do not understand, do not understand, or do not understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say so. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the Ombudsman's Report has been very busy, or we have invested a lot of time in the study of the allegations, and that is why our discussions have also been critical in some way, unlike those that have praised the individual parts of its report. I was particularly pleased with all the things the nanny wrote, wrote around the disabled, around, I don't know, health institutions that don't want to accept prisoners and so on. At the same time, however, I was very critical of her allegations concerning the area of prisoners because I felt that I was working on a fitness study and so on in prisons, while the workers probably did not have fitness studies and I do not know what. I was being critical. I was very happy, and I believe that my colleagues shared this joy with me in all the statements that the guardian wrote on the subject of the judiciary and the courts. It has gone even further than we have been used to, and it has made it very clear that we must ensure the conditions for the independence of the judiciary. This does not mean their irresponsibility. I greatly commended her report in that part. At the same time, in the field of lawyering, for example, she has taken one important step forward in this country, because she has made it very clear how we have a situation in the field of lawyering. It also indicated the solutions that would have to be adopted and I also told you that in 2008 the Government had settled many things in two laws and, of course, fixed them. Therefore, I would not want the guardian to get the wrong impression of our vote. In fact, we also supported the vast majority of the amendments. As you've seen, we've supported virtually every amendment except the two amendments you've filed in the coalition. However, because we have the opportunity to take or leave it; that is, we cannot vote on individual recommendations, but we are now voting on the report in full; the behaviour of the coalition Members in the vote on the 5th Amendment, by which you voted, of course, has been a recommencement to immediately approach the implementation of the Constitutional Decision and to issue supplementary decisions, so-called transposed. The one that forced us to vote together against this report by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That doesn't mean any wrong message to the guardian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 33. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the recommendation has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the Rules on criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the Rules on criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia of 16. 6. 2008 and 19. 12. 2008 We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 16. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - discusses the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 16. 6. 2008 and 19. 12. 2008 Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I request applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. As in the previous vote, indeed, the Group of Members will vote against this vote. We have already mentioned our concerns about the possibility of FIHO purchasing additional shares of the Slovenian Lottery when considering both items of the agenda. We are also of the opinion that the existing Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia does not solve this problem in the best way. At that time, I predicted that we would vote each and every one of us at our own discretion. Between this point and the vote, there was also a change in the Lottery of Slovenia, and instead of the 4-member administration, only a 2-member administration was now appointed past the invitation to tender. All these things have further confirmed us in this opinion, in short, that we are voting against it. And we fear that the country may be able to help the disabled and the humanitarian to the organisations here on a side road that will soon need to be repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for Decisions on Consent to Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to amend and supplement the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 7. 1. 2009 Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Rudolf Petan, SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, President of the Government, Your Honor. We do not support these rules in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and it is also interesting that it does not support them; of course, we only learned this yesterday in a debate where the Minister explained why the Government does not support them. I think the best explanation why we don't support him in the SDS is what the government wrote. The Government notes that the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is not in line with the Property Change Act of Lottery Slovenia. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to harmonise the provisions of the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia prior to the consideration of changes and the addition of rules for financing sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. This is said, first of all, the Property Change Order, since the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are adopted on the basis of law and decree as hierarchically higher legal acts. The Government also has comments on the proposal for amendments and the completion of the rules for the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Council of the Foundation 27. 11. 2008 Indeed, it is also a matter of meetings, which are determined by gross wages, and the Government also has comments on this. Given that the government is taking a bunch of measures; some we have already seen, more will be done, so it is announced when it comes to saving. However, in this case, when it comes to meetings, certain specific rules should apply to the Sports Foundation. The government is also taking action in the field of meetings, kilometres and so on, and we see no reason why this would not apply to everyone, this being the first for the foundation. We made it clear at the meeting that we think this percentage is too high, we don't mind if the sessions stay, but not at that height. We also had comments on the education of the Foundation Director, as the Minister mentioned yesterday in the debate. He also mentioned that the government has concerns, 12 questions. The 12 questions are not answered, and we believe that this regulation cannot be supported, we must find that we agree with the Government in this case and we are surprised that the ruling Members do not understand this. All I would mention is that we did not get an opinion from the Government at the parental committee meeting, and no one told us. We only found out yesterday. We're not going to vote yes, we're going to vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u199	Your Honor! We will also vote against the Social Democrats because the rules are not in line with the legislation and because this rule, or the Government's additions, also opposes what we later learned after the debate. In short, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thanks again for the word. I wouldn't want to repeat myself too much. As has already been said, as with the Social Democrats, we will indeed vote against the Group of Members, even though we supported this proposed substance on the Committee. We regret that the government’s opinion came late and that it was less clear than we would have liked. Now that things are clear, the decision is easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 76. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 76.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall give its consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit of 24. 12. 2008." We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. I am moving on to the definition of the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 5. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u203	Dear Members and Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal in particular because, even through the debate in this Parliament and through the confrontation of the positions of Members and Members, it has shown some willingness to deal with this issue better than it is now. It was practically a uniform view that it was unsustainable, that 60 days, or 60 days, that period of payment of the VAT refund in relation to the invoice submitted, and that this day was absolutely too long, too distant, that it was not for the benefit of the economy, nor for the tax profession and consequently it was time for this regulation to be rectified. Of course, it has also been made clear by Members and Members that different views on what the right deadline is, for the first time, given the state of the tax administration's information system, are, for the second time, also on the ability of the state budget in this first year. I therefore consider that the basis of this law is to support it in the first reading or at this stage of the procedure and that, in March, the first week of March, when the next regular meeting is held, we should consider it in the second reading. Until then, the Government will also present a 2009 budget rebalance on the basis of which it will be able to complete the remaining circumstances, in particular the financial circumstances of the adoption of such a law. However, why I consider it most important to adopt this law, in addition to the argument that it is important for the liquidity of the economy in these tight financial and economic conditions. Also because this is a clear signal to the Government that Parliament is considering and considering this proposal as a priority, what needs to be taken into account in the drafting of other public financial documents such as the 2009 budget rebalancing. If we don't do it here today, then with a fig in our pocket, I'd say we think it's necessary to sort it out in the future. For if we do not give this signal in this first reading to the Government, the fate of such a proposal will, of course, be less likely in the future. Therefore, I ask you once again to support this solution in the light of the acquisition of the association of the economy, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and others.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Although the proposal may be welcome, we will not support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. Therefore, the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration. The proposal for amendments is substantively narrow, as the Government's representative has also assessed, in order to ensure, at the same time, the monitoring and detection of potential abuses, while reducing payment deadlines. This also, of course, excludes the argument that we are adopting the law at first reading and will complement it in the second reading, because the law at second reading does not allow for the same quality supplement as the Government foresees, which was explained yesterday. Budget revenues are falling dramatically, we all know that, at the same time, the effects of amended legislation amounting to EUR four hundred and fifty-nine million or 1.3% of gross social product. The adoption of this law would mean an additional shortfall of around €100 million. The adoption of this bill may jeopardise the public financial deficit to such an extent that it cannot be financed by debt as well. This means, of course, that it is necessary to wait for the balance presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the rebalancing, to determine whether the resources required for the implementation of this law are available, and if so, of course, the Government may then, very quickly when the numbers are known, submit a law, but a law that will therefore be broader, a law that will ensure that payment deadlines are reduced while maintaining or controlling possible tax fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal you have read. I hope that I have correctly understood that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Why? Firstly, because I know an entrepreneur who recently set up a company and invested EUR 2 million in the purchase of expensive machinery for which he paid the tax. Today, he can only be saved by the tax that the state is supposed to pay him back, but he's not. Secondly, because we cannot bear the words that would result from the faster return of overpaid VAT, the budget hole. That's not true because these funds are not state-owned. Thirdly, because we are afraid that if the country does not do so, there will actually be a budget hole because companies will fail and will not pay those taxes that remain in the country; then there will be a budget hole. And fourthly, we are surprised that the liquidity situation, the liquidity situation of the state was not concerned at the time we adopted the laws, how quickly we would rescue the banks that were in trouble because they had credited some gentlemen for the purchase of the shares they had actually set up for these loans. But suddenly this country is worried about liquidity. When it comes to returning to those who work honestly waiting for their money back, liquidity is questionable. I think the reasons were very clear and very specific, why we will support the bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me, excuse me. Voting adjournment. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr President, President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Why this proposal is smart and should be voted in favour. Indeed, this proposal, the faster return of overpaid VAT, can be the fastest aid to companies that are not stable at this time, so that they would actually get their operating money right away. There's no way I can understand that entrepreneurs are sitting on the other side and they don't want that money. I don't know why not. Then they have such good profits or something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u210	Mr. Bezjak, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u211	I'm explaining my voice. The other thing I want to say is that I don't understand at all what they're saying is that the country would have a hole of EUR 360 million. Why is that? That's taxpayers' money. I don't know where they see this money or this hole. Once again, I call on you Members and Members of Parliament to help businesses. This will help you to better tomorrow, and eventually the companies will remain healthy. But if you vote against them, you'll be guilty of sinking them. So vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u213	Well welcomed, Mr President of the Government, Minister, Mr President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! As a member of the Committee on Finance, I really feel obliged to explain my vote again. I also agreed on my own committee to shorten the deadline to 30 days, as is the case with exporting companies. The Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, everyone else is warning us to help the economy. On the other hand, today we also call on Members and Members to help in this direction to ensure a quality transport link between all areas of Slovenia, which are slightly further away from Ljubljana and so on. To talk about what we are talking about now, let us wait for the budget balance, provide these funds, and then, on the advice of the Minister responsible for finance, let us take action. I believe that there is no one here who wants to listen to the economy, nor does the government itself, including the Prime Minister of the Government, who is here with us. As it was said yesterday, the President of the Government and the Government are looking for solutions. I don't think there's a dilemma here. I explain my own voice, and I will not vote in favour of this at this time. After the balance, when the solution is found, I'll be in first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will be happy to vote in favour of this proposal. It surprises me to see those who reasoned on the voice [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u216	Dear colleague Grill, leave the others alone, tell them how you'll vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u217	If we were to think seriously, of course we would support this proposal, because today we are voting on whether the law is suitable for further consideration. It means that we will consider this law at least twice if we allow this procedure to continue. When the balance is considered when all those indicators are seen, we can still say at the last reading: in fact, this law does not bring what we expect of it. That's why the transfer from the vine is tight. The economists, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, all of us expect to give them a clear signal that we go against the expectations that will make it easier for them, we don't give them anything, we'll just give them back the money that's theirs before it's theirs. As I said yesterday, in the event that the 7-day deadline has returned as proposed in this law is too short, let us put in transitional provisions so that within a few months it can reach 7 days. Let us show will that our entrepreneurs will be able to plan this change that benefits them. That is why I call on all of this, please on behalf of entrepreneurship, to support this law, because we will not go beyond any budgetary liquidity problems that all of you are predicting. That's not gonna happen. We're just gonna give back the money that's theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Government. We are actually talking about one article of this law today. But if we go back to history, we once said, "Give Caesar what is Caesar's." And it was possible, and this system was "laufala and spasil". Today we actually pick up more and then we come back. So today you could say, "Before you give us back what you took too much from us" and this earlier refers to a certain number of days. Today 60, we propose 7. There is no reason for this 7 to remain if you have terrible fears for roads, for holes in the budget. I heard a lot of nonsense in the debate last time. But it's money that's not state money. This is the money that belongs to our entrepreneurs. That's all we want. That this money, which can only be used by the State in liquidity rather than physically for our daily needs, should be returned in time. I am deeply convinced, I repeat, I am deeply convinced that the situation is one of those measures that will first and immediately help the economy. More than anything that a government coalition is preparing and so on. I have been very pleased with the debates of many Members when we discussed this law, I stress, also with coalitions that have already announced that they will support the continuation. Otherwise, in my opinion, the law is also among those laws that the Prime Minister of the Government spoke about when he said in his next speech, "We will support all good." You have every opportunity to follow the President of the Government and support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself, as I have predicted, will vote in favour of the law when I represented the position of the Group of Members, and therefore have sufficient valid reasons, and I have also made sufficient arguments in previous discussions to understand why the arguments put forward by the Minister do not hold back. Now I'm going to repeat them for a little while. First time. The point is that this is not a bill drafted by the current opposition, but it is an attempt by the economy from the previous year, which it wrote in the brochures, that it was sent to the Government and, unfortunately, was not adopted by the Government. He was adopted by others. The current opposition MPs. Indeed, it is late, because it could have been done before, but this appeal was heard by the economies. Our opportunity is to reject what they have proposed in the form of an excessively short deadline and to find a compromise solution. I have also proposed this to the Committee on Finance, where there has been some support for such a proposal, but then this will has changed. I'm afraid, even though this coalition has written down on the front page to work differently than the previous authorities, it's happening now as before. That we will somehow be forced to vote in one voice, as we will hear from Gregorčič. They wrote to me at the time, the former authority that did this, the red dots, and if we don't do the paradigm now, let's just start writing the dots again. I'm just gonna pick up a few. However, I will support this correct proposal because the argument that it is not possible to monitor - does not hold back. The Minister himself, at my request, replied that at the 30-day deadline surveillance was possible, complete surveillance. And as far as public finances are concerned, if the Ministry is really preparing this law, otherwise it's only for 15. In 2009, when it's too late, and if it's ready, then it could probably be shown to critics, because this, just to show me the draft, is not a threat to public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. President of the Government. Minister. Good-bye. For the second time, I will support this bill's proposal, so that it goes to a second reading. Because I truly agree with all those who say that this is one of the concrete aids to businesses. You're talking about the country's liquidity to make the country illiquid. It just doesn't hold. However, the fact is that a lot of companies are inequitable because of this and have great problems. Months ago, when it was possible to borrow loans for liquidity problems, this was not the biggest problem. Today, when it's not possible to rent these loans, the banks don't give them, and that's a serious problem. It is surprising to me that, I do not know, we have been dealing with this law for two months now, for the second time in the National Assembly, and that Members and Members on the one hand are meeting only such entrepreneurs who have liquidity problems and others in the government coalition with those who have surplus money. And then let those help ensure the liquidity of the country. In short. I don't think it's serious if there was a coalition and opposition meeting yesterday that we would be involved in these matters and help solve the problems of the economic crisis. I think it's to support and, of course, finish it in another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u225	Hello, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will be very happy to support this bill. In particular, because I am convinced that the adoption of this law would prevent the collapse of many businesses, craftsmen and entrepreneurs. At the same time, I am convinced that it is those who are filling the state budget. And for that reason, it is also important to adopt this law at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Please re-apply for an explanation of vote in your own name and please be sure to login to the person who wants to do this. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u227	Thank you very much for the president, the coworkers and the co-workers. In this debate, I think that there is no important argument that convinces me not to give this proposal a green light, that it is not suitable for further discussion. And this is the fact that any such proposal without a coordinated intervention in the state budget would mean a deterioration of the deficit in the budget and therefore a possible deterioration of Slovenia's credit rating on the international market. This means a deterioration of creditworthiness in Slovenia, which means encouraging credits for those entrepreneurs for whom they are supposed to compete. I understand the meaning of the law, and therefore I expect the government to keep its promise and I trust it. I will now vote in the direction that this law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I will, of course, support this law, especially because the opposition wants to help you in this way in the coalition. Look, it says in the media, the laws stand and the wages grow. Journalists also learned what is happening in this country, write, and predict laws from nowhere. That is why we have offered a hand and proposed such a legal arrangement, which is just, unlike the law that we passed, which you voted on weeks ago, this is the Act on Subsidisation of Working Time, which is quite selective and is not fair to all gentlemen. But once again, I would suggest to Pahori not to seek excuses in his policy but to seek solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u231	This decision must, of course, be supported, so I will support it. The point is that by supporting the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, we are not yet adopting the law, although it would be good to do so, but to support the legislative procedure. As I understood the Minister in his explanation, he said that he did not object to this measure, but it is necessary to consider whether the optimal reduction of this deadline of 60 or 30 days to seven days in terms of VAT return or whether, from a public financial point of view, that period should be extended slightly. The talk, on his part, was about twenty-one days. This is all possible, but only if we initiate the legislative procedure by voting for today. If we don't do this, it's time for this law to be passed again. This is one of those measures which are equal to all that act quickly, which does not constitute a direct outflow of state money from the budget as well as some other law, but which constitute an essential liquidity burden on the economy. In one moss in the range of 150 to 200 million euros. And they mean, of course, a certain effort to those who care about public finances to provide this bridge part. It is only this moment when this happens, then the procedures will continue within these 7 or as many days as they would be. In short, I will support the conclusion because I think that this is one of the decisions that is good, which is in the interests of this country, and in particular in the interest of the economy, and will not jeopardize public finances in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. I'll support the marriage, too. Because I think it brings a lot of good for craftsmen, for the economy. It allows for a liquidity flow that is now interrupted. It allows certain craftsmen to survive during this critical period. And given that we all recognize that such a law is necessary, it is absolutely at this stage of adoption, when it is first considered and when the law can be substantially supplemented in the next stages, changes, including with everything that you have somehow stated that it is necessary to verify, should be supported, complemented, possibly, and thus enable the real economy to survive. This law certainly complements all the measures that this government has proposed so far, but which are not yet adopted, as it is now said, and thus would actually allow for the failure we have failed to provide with bank guarantees to small craftsmen and the economy. In fact, by this measure and by means of this law, companies would be able to obtain certain liquidity money, which is theirs, which is not owned by this country, but which needs to be returned to the economy first and thus allowed to operate normally. I am therefore surprised that most of the debates are in a positive direction and the vote will clearly reject this procedure of this law. And this saddens me very much, because by entrepreneurs and the economy, pressure is in the direction that these measures are being taken more quickly and this measure is certainly going in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u235	I myself will support this bill for a number of reasons. The first is that this is the first measure that brings us closer to the vital part of the economy that pays VAT, is said to those who invest, those who export, and will be a very good signal to these companies. On the other hand, it is one of the measures that will normalise our economic picture. It is said that this borrowed money the state gives back to those who create it earlier. The third reason is that, as I have already said in the debate on the law and asked the financial ministry responsible once again to see the source of this money in those measures announced by the Government that it would invest €800 million in the economy. And once again, I'm asking the Prime Minister publicly, and I'm saying that this is a calculation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u236	You can't ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u237	I'm sorry. I am justifying the vote in favour of having a source in those 230 million who are inflatable, and it is certainly already in the same measure for all 150 million seats. If this is not true, let's take the time, calculate it until the second reading, and then find out if this jump is possible from 60 to 7 days or gradual, I don't know, 30 days, or in this year's year to 45, and say next year to 30. Let us, for God's sake, give a positive signal to those who are vital and want to work in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u238	Thank you very much. An explanation in your own name? So, once again, I'm asking for applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Peace in the hall! The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Look, any measure we propose or propose is, of course, a matter of priority. If this measure, following the assessment of the Government, is one that is considered to be a priority, then it will receive support if not, no. Any excuses, if it's not yet time, and there's time, are more or less out of the vine. But what do I want to add to this? I would like to add that the Government has also introduced excise duties due to relatively favourable developments in oil prices, and this will put much more money into the treasury than it costs to liquidate this measure within one financial year. I am also pleased that the President of the Government is listening to me here to tell him once again that this is the money of the economy that they have paid to the cash register, and now we want the country to return it to the same economy first. These are exporters who pay the entry tax and are obliged by the State to repay the exit tax. These are everyone who invests when they pay an entry tax and don't calculate it in advance. So this is the segment of the economy that exports, which invests, and this segment of the economy very bloodyly needs liquidity money in these acute situations, when the financial system is compromised and the economy is also facing a decline in orders. And we want to give this economy money first from the state. And we have to worry about the liquidity of money more or the economy more than we care about the liquidity of public finances because the economy is financed. So, Prime Minister, let's see.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. He's quitting. We're voting. I will read again the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 39. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u241	The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal for a final account because the 2007 accounts are the first final account in a very long period, if not in the history of Slovenia, which shows the budgetary surplus that shows the sound state of public finances in that year and which is in fact one of the final accounts or budgets that was for the first time, I would say that the real relationship between public financial revenues, public financial expenditure and external debt, measured, of course, as a percentage of gross domestic product. Public financial revenues have not been reduced despite the fact that, by introducing tax reform, we have burdened the economy, by the way, abolished the tax on wages paid and others and reduced the general tax rate. Nevertheless, we kept public financial revenues at some stable level and reduced public spending significantly. And this was the first time that a public financial surplus of 0.5% of the gross domestic product was shown. The public debt was record low and is one of the lowest in the period. Apparently, the Court of Auditors has disturbed some accounting, I would say, ambiguities in the presentation of certain events and has therefore expressed its opinion with reservation and did not require a response report. Which means that it has found that irregularities have been identified here; I am interested in which final budget account has not had them so far and which will not have them in the future; and, of course, it has been satisfied with the Government's actions in the face of these concerns. Here, and today, we are witnessing that some parliamentary groups will not support the closing account, because it will be a precedent and I am interested in what the practice will be later. Therefore, if we attach the expertise and opinion of the Court of Auditors, it is appropriate to support the final account, but if we go to politics and to mutilate the achievements of the previous government, you will do as you have explained in the explanations of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dear coworkers and coworkers. I do not think that the closing account is appropriate due mainly to two graphs - the difference between a fictional surplus and a real deficit. Therefore, the final account does not reflect the real situation and the annual constant decline in the implementation of the European Union's withdrawals. Such results cannot be supported by principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you again, President. I'll support the final bill and I'll tell you why I'll support it. The closing account discusses the 2007 business events. Today we are in 2009, and every intervention in that final account means an external intervention from another time into what has already happened. It is a distinction between a gesture and the history of rerum gestarum or otherwise, between what happened and how we describe it, how we assess it. This final account, including the audit, speaks mainly of two things. The fact that there have been many good things, which is also shown in some very good macroeconomic results, and on the other hand that many mistakes have been made, also probably some manipulation to show better results. But that doesn't change the facts. These facts are as they are and so is the Court of Auditors, at least I have not found them, and there is no record of what this Parliament must do now in return, in what way, on what legal basis and so forth. On the contrary. It alerted us to what is right and what is wrong with our legal education, and there is nothing about how we now have to change history back. And when I accept this final bill, I accept it in both halves. In those who say that some good results have been achieved, but also in those who are critical and who point to the weaknesses that must be addressed in the future. That's our job now. Not to correct history, but to prepare ourselves not to make the same mistakes over the next few years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has not been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - consideration of the 2007 Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. First: The National Assembly proposes to the Government that a proposal for a new Law on Public Funds be prepared immediately [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 77/08]] by modifying Article 55 in a work where it interferes with the already acquired property of municipalities on walled building plots acquired by the municipalities under Article 57 of the Law on Public Funds [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 22/2000]] . Second conclusion: The National Assembly proposes to the Government to bring the concession act on the award of the Concession on State Forests into line with Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act. [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 41-1694/04]] which provides that if the concession is awarded by the State in natural goods, part of the payment for the concession shall also be paid to the municipality. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 5. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence draft law on the ratification of the protocol on the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister Samuel Zbogar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u247	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! Albania started its approach to the North Atlantic Alliance a good decade ago when it gave up its first membership action plan. At the beginning of her approach to Nate, she knew that she was facing difficult preparations to meet all the required criteria. Slovenia, together with other allies through the annual National Membership Action Plans, has closely monitored Albania's progress in the political, economic, security, legal and defence fields. On the basis of the nine cycles of the membership action plans, Albania has shown that it has met the expectations of the allies and is well prepared for membership. On the basis of the visible and measurable progress made by Albania in all relevant areas for the Atlantic Alliance, the NATO Summit in Bucharest last April established a consensus among the allies on Albania's invitation to NATO membership. Albania shall act constructively and responsibly in regulating and stabilising the situation in its immediate neighbourhood and shall adopt and act on the basis of the values of the Atlantic Alliance. We believe that with Albania's NATO membership we will get a reliable and credible member of the Alliance, so I thank you for your strong decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Ivo Wigel, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u249	Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, Minister. Respectable representatives of the diplomatic council. The Committee on Foreign Policy is at the first meeting of its 2nd regular session, 26. 1. 2009 addressed the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, had no comments. With regard to the majority necessary for the ratification of the draft law, however, it considered that a protocol should be adopted on the basis of Article 3, paragraph 3,a, of the Constitution by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members. Pursuant to Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, its Parties may invite, by agreement, any other European State capable of upholding these principles, the principles of this Treaty and contributing to the security of the North Atlantic region to accede to the Treaty. As previously said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the presidents of the countries and the Government, including Slovenia, invited Albania to begin accession talks in NATO at the top NATO meeting in Bucharest in April 2008. On 23 May 2008, the Permanent Representatives of the Member States of NATO confirmed the text of the Protocol governing Albania's integration into NATO. The debate on the Committee on Foreign Affairs underlined the importance of Albania's involvement in NATO's position on comprehensive stabilisation of the situation in the region. At all stages of NATO's integration and approximation, the State has also met the conditions set for it and also the expectations that it will also be involved as an active factor in NATO's efforts to expand the area of security and cooperation in the Council. Therefore, after a short discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles together and with an appropriate majority, with eighteen votes in favour and no objection, adopted all the articles of the bill. As no amendment of the Committee on Foreign Policy to the National Assembly has been adopted to the draft law on ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty, it is proposed that the draft law on ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u251	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the proposal and vote in favour of ratification. Members of Parliament have normally difficult tasks, including decisions that have been made earlier, have put many of them in question about how to vote and what is right. However, when it comes to ratifying such a protocol, I must say that this is one of the more pleasant duties. That we can welcome the progress of one country, the desire of citizens and citizens of one country to join the international community when it comes to ensuring peace. Albania has long been considered an extremely closed country, so we did not know what was going on beyond its borders. There were supposed to be a lot of things going on that time of democratisation that have changed and enforced the standards that apply to democratic countries in that country as well. This also applies, of course, to all other areas, not only the area of defence and security. In this area, the criteria and criteria are very strict and are also controlled by those who are already members of the Alliance. And I know Albania has done all these things exemplaryly. I am sorry that her neighbour, Macedonia, has not been given equal treatment, although she has also fulfilled all the conditions and is in this troubled part of Europe and the world. So to speak, she was wronged at the same meeting. It is always when we are talking about the efforts to join a country in the EU, and then also in the EU, that this effort does not end at the borders, and it is not just a matter of each country and itself, but it is a contribution to the common thing and I believe that in a very short time Macedonia, which is a neighbour in this area, will also become a member, will be invited. This will certainly contribute to stability in the Western Balkans. It will also contribute to better relations with countries in the neighbourhood, as well as across Europe and beyond. As Members of the Liberal Democracy have said, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In March 2003 we held a referendum in Slovenia on whether citizens and citizens of Slovenia support Slovenia's entry into NATO. Two thirds of the participants in the referendum supported Slovenia's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. Despite a fairly strong campaign against citizens and citizens of Slovenia, we were obviously very well aware that our entry into this defence relationship is extremely important for us and our defence ability and security. Today, in our Parliament, we wonder whether it is important, not least because of our own defence and security interests, that the defence union of NATO is also expanding to a place in our immediate and wider neighbourhood, the Balkans. And whether it means the willingness of other Balkan countries to commit themselves to respect the values on which it is based then, a greater guarantee or, at least, a much greater likelihood that the security-relatedly unstable Balkans will eventually become more stable, which is also of paramount importance to us. As I have already mentioned, we also occasionally have a very strong propaganda or campaign against our NATO membership and against NATO’s further enlargements, it should be recalled that NATO’s fundamental values, in addition to those of general ones such as democracy, personal freedom and the rule of law and the common heritage and civilisation of nations, include efforts for peace and peaceful settlement of disputes and the resolve of the Parties to join their efforts for collective defence and the preservation of peace and security. When we have all this in front of our eyes, of course, it's logical to support Nate's enlargement. When we make a concrete decision on Albania's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty, let us also bear in mind the fact that Albania has already joined the North Atlantic Cooperation Council in 1992. In 1994, she joined the Partnership for Peace. Albania played an important role in supporting allied efforts to end the humanitarian tragedy in Kosovo and to ensure peace after the end of aviation intervention. In 1999, Albania offered shelter and humanitarian assistance to hundreds of thousands of refugees from Kosovo for several months and then prevented an even greater humanitarian disaster. Bilateral cooperation thus developed gradually, in the light of cooperation in the Alliance's action plan since April 1999. In Tirana, NATO headquarters were established in 2002 to contribute to the command and control of the KFOR forces and to advise, assist and support the Albanian government in reforming their defence forces. An important assurance that Albania will be a reliable and credible member of the North Atlantic Alliance also means that political and public support for NATO membership is expressed by as much as 95% of Albania's polled population. We will therefore vote in favour of ratifying the Protocol on Albania's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty in the Group of Social Democrats, which we sincerely support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u255	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the integration of countries created in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and Albania or so-called Western Balkan countries into Euro-Atlantic links. The country's willingness to implement the necessary reforms and changes shows support as they lead to stability and progress. This is how we assess the Republic of Albania's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty as a good step towards stabilising the situation in this part of the Balkans. Albania, as a NATO member, can act in a stabilising way to resolve Kosovo and Western Macedonia. We will therefore support the proposal for a Stabilisation Agreement. We will support the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u257	Thank you, President. Dear guests, distinguished fellow Members and Members! The Zares Group supports the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty and will today clearly vote in favour of ratification. We believe that the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Union is important for the stability of the Western Balkans and is therefore more political than exclusively military. In recent years, the Republic of Albania has worked hard for this membership and has undoubtedly played a constructive and regionally friendly role in the light of these efforts. I was alone in Albania three times in 1999, and I faced their efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to refugees from Kosovo. I was in Bajram Curi and I assure you that Albania was on the humanitarian aid frontline at the time, along with the Republic of Macedonia. NATO membership also strengthens its responsibility to develop good-neighbourly relations with Macedonia, Kosovo, Greece and Montenegro. In doing so, we would also like to point out that Albania will still have much to do to help as a sovereign state [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u258	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm sorry. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u259	to establish economic, social and political standards to prevent its abuse by some developed European countries, which see in particular opportunities for rapid, profitable activities that are not sustainable and disputed in the European Union. [[...]] With the support of the ratification of the Protocol at the time of Albania's accession, we wish to establish our regret and disappointment at the stagnation which would allow for similar ratification by the Republic of Macedonia. Albania's entry into NATO would make even more sense at the same time as Macedonia's entry. We therefore call on all members of the Alliance and, in particular, Greece to make this possible as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u261	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, other representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague. The Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group will be very pleased to support the ratification of the accession of the Republic of Albania to NATO, as we can see that this small and relatively small country, in its time, a few decades ago, has made a very closed state, has made great progress in the last decade in democratising internal political conditions, as well as some progress in the field of the economy. Not to say that he is making a great deal of efforts to increase the level of security and peace in the Balkans, which has been the scene of many wars that we and the Republic of Albania no longer want. As a result, we believe that the support for ratification is justified, necessary and honorable, which will help to ensure peace in this part of our Europe. At the same time, of course, in the Group of Members, we hope, as some others have already announced, that the Republic of Macedonia, which is only due to, can be said to be a minor complication with Greece around the name; that in the future, the problem will also be overcome in a relatively short time, and that we will also be able to support in this mandate in the National Assembly the ratification that will enable Macedonia to enter the NATO Pact and thereby to extend this part of the countries that are members and with which we will jointly take care of our common security and peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President, the distinguished President of the Government, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the accession protocol for the entry of the Republic of Albania into NATO. Both Albania and Croatia were invited to start accession talks in Bucharest in 2008. As is known, there are several stages in the process of integration of candidate countries into NATO. The conclusion of the ratification procedures and the formal decision of the North Atlantic Council is foreseen by the end of February 2008. Slovenia's acceptance of the new countries is foreseen at the NATO Summit in April 2009. In the shadow of problems with neighbouring Croatia, we pay little attention to the long-standing efforts of the Republic of Albania to connect to Western Europe and enter NATO. In his history, the Albanian people suffered under many occupations and dictatorships, so their efforts are fully understandable. By the late 1990s, NATO forces had to intervene in the resolution of conflicts between the Yugoslav army and Albanian separatists. Albania was in the past the territory of Italy, later the Eastern Powers, the Ottoman Empire, which spread to Europe. Social and economic reforms were also introduced in Albania at the time of the collapse of the European communist systems in 1989. According to bloody democracies, the provisional constitution was also adopted in April 1991. Since October 1999, when the Prime Minister Ilir Meta has become Prime Minister, Albania has tied itself to Western Europe and has initiated procedures for joining NATO and the European Union. According to the SLS Group, the integration of the Republic of Albania into the Union would then contribute to stability and peace following the turbulent events following the collapse of Yugoslavia in the Western Balkans. We will therefore vote in favour of ratifying Albania's entry into NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u265	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government with his co-workers. I propose a half-hour break for consultation in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u266	Of course, this proposal will be adopted, but first, I will ask if there is a proposal to explain the vote on behalf of the groups. An explanation proposal on its own behalf? No, no, no. Therefore, since we are before the vote, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in half an hour. We'll pick it up at 7:50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u267	Dear Members and Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting and agenda item 12 - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty Mr. Think wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that. On the 10th item of the agenda, we voted on the closure of the 2007 account. For the first time, the closing account was not accepted. This is a precedent. As a matter of fact, something like this has never happened before. This is incomprehensible because the final account has been prepared by the same services that are preparing your budget balance, and here it is also for the same services that are preparing you a budget balance and also probably budgets for the coming years. In this case, it is probably ideological rematching, because this final account is the first to show surplus and it is not very small. I can also inform you that the Court of Auditors did not, in its ruling, require that anything be corrected in the final account. Even more. In 2006, on the closure of the 2005 accounts, the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Soltes, stated that, until now, the Court of Auditors has never in its history requested the repair of the final accounts of the municipalities and not the state. In short, in the Group of Members we estimate that such conduct of the work of the Coalition is demeaning, unproductive and inaccurate and we suggest that, because of your actions, we suspend the meeting in this item of the agenda in order to vote at one of the future meetings. In the event that this procedural proposal is not adopted, we announce in our Group that we will not participate in any further vote until the final accounts for 2007 are adopted in the text you rejected. I suggest you vote. While we are against any of the things on the agenda, we have nothing, but we want the things that we have discussed at this meeting to be arranged as usual in this Assembly and in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Before we vote on this procedural proposal, I am adjourning the meeting and calling a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. Thank you. Room 217. Please. You will be informed of the continuation of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u270	Dear colleagues, my colleagues, we will continue the meeting at 8:35 p.m. in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u271	Dear colleagues, I'm adjourning at 9.05 p.m. We'll resume the session at 9:05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-29-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u272	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, we are continuing our meeting. On the basis of consultations, I shall, in accordance with Article 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the meeting. We're voting. Procedural proposal. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] We'll let you know about the adjourned session. Thank you very much.
