ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Ljubo Germič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision on the reshaping of the University of Love. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Dr Jozsef Györkös State Secretary at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has the floor. Please, Mr. Györkös, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Good morning. On behalf of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, I would like to provide the following explanation. The Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana proposes a status transformation of the University of Ljubljana University of Health University to the Faculty of Health of the University of Ljubljana. Compliance with the conditions for limited transformation was determined by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education at its meeting on 9 June 2008 and adopted a positive opinion. Under the Standard Classification Regulation, the activities of the University of Ljubljana have also been amended or coordinated. With the status conversion of the School of Health to the Faculty of Health, the University of Ljubljana will have only universities and art institutes among its members, but not universities. Therefore, that amendment had to be taken into account in all the relevant provisions of the Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u4	I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development considered at its 2nd regular session on 18 February 2009 the proposal for a regulation amending and supplementing the Decision on the recasting of the University of Ljubljana. With regard to the text of the decision itself, the Legal Service commented and, with the amendment adopted, the Committee also took the view of the Legal Service. The majority of the discussions were with regard to Article 5 which provided for the payment of expenses and meetings to members of the Management Board, but with the agreement of both the representative of the Government and the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Mrs Kocjančič, the Committee decided unanimously and drew this article. Finally, the Committee unanimously, with all votes in favour, endorsed the amended text of the decree and invited the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Vasja Klavora on behalf of the Dessus Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. This follows, as proposed, the status transformation of the School of Health in Ljubljana to the Faculty of Health of the University of Ljubljana. This also confirms that the University of Ljubljana will have only universities and art institutes. That is also true, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 9 June 2008 and adopted a positive opinion on this. At the same time, I would like to hold on to only one item in Article 5, which has already been deleted, and it is true that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also given its opinion on what is going on with the administrative committees or members and how it is to repay the meetings. If this is the case with the new Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on meetings, reimbursement of costs in public funds, public agencies, public institutions and public economic institutions, then this has also been transferred so that the members of the administrative boards of universities are entitled to meetings and reimbursement of costs. To this end, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was critical, and it also pointed out this. This has also been taken into account and Article 5. In our parliamentary group, we believe that if this were to happen, then it would be contrary to the autonomy of the university, or even to some extent would constitute an intervention in the autonomy of the university. The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the recasting of the University of Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also support in the Slovenian National Party the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. In fact, it is only a editorial change to the name of one of the higher education institutions belonging to the University of Ljubljana and there is no reason to oppose that change. With the status conversion of the High School of Health to the School of Health, the university will actually have only universities and art institutes now. Also, as my predecessor has said, the only disputed article that has ever been is the rewards for members of the board to be deleted. We also support this in the Slovenian National Party. In short, there's not much more to say here. The very topic of the state of the university, the state, the problems of all three art colleges in Ljubljana, is ripe for one detailed debate and I hope that we will have one opportunity at the same time to start this chapter to regulate the situation in the field of higher education in Ljubljana in a broader sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A major change made by the proposed decree is the status transformation of the University of Ljubljana University of Health School to the Faculty of Health of the University of Ljubljana. The University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and other health schools in Slovenia and abroad have already successfully cooperated with the University of Ljubljana. She was successful in exchanging professional, educational and scientific discoveries and experiences. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the High School for Health has successfully sought to implement the profession and school at home and abroad. We believe that as a medical faculty, too, it will strive to achieve excellence and a high quality of development research in the field of health. We also expect that it will fill the gap in linking and bringing scientific and research work into health practice and the economy, and that it will, through the introduction of a master and doctoral study, educate institutions and leading professionals trained in the development of health disciplines. In view of the opinion of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, we agree that it is time for the High School of Health to turn into the Faculty of Health of the University of Ljubljana, so in the Slovenian People's Party Group we will support the proposed decree on amendments and additions to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. The proposed decree deals mainly with minor changes and additions, the status of the transformation of the University of Ljubljana University of Health School to the Faculty of Health of the University of Ljubljana. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education in June last year identified the conditions for this status transformation and gave a positive opinion. By reshaping the School of Health, the University of Ljubljana will have only universities and art institutes among its members, and not more higher vocational schools, and this change should be taken into account in all other relevant articles of this decree. In accordance with the Standard Classification Regulation, however, the activities of the University of Ljubljana have also been amended or harmonised. It is particularly important, however, in our view, that this will in practice mean that the study areas and the studies listed will be classified according to the international classification, which means that they will be fully clear of the competences of individual programmes as well as of students and students as a result. This will also allow for greater mobility of students. That is why we support amendments and amendments to the decree in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr. Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Social Democrats support the resolution on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, as we support the development of the School of Health in the Faculty of Health. We understand that the area of health and health professions, without medical care, is an autonomous health and professional area that urgently needs an education upgrade. The development of individual fields of expertise is so strong that individual professions move from aid to cooperation and separate professions trained to work in the group. It is therefore a complex area of concern for a person in a broader sense, where an interdisciplinary approach is necessary, more scientific disciplines and includes care for sick and healthy people in terms of health care, disease prevention, participation in the treatment process and help achieve better quality of life in case of chronic illness or disability. Social Democrats are this dimension, the human dimension, especially close to us, as we are close to understanding the mutual concern of individuals towards others in society, the notion of public and quality, accessible and people-friendly public health. It is clear from the coalition agreement that in this mandate we will pay a lot of attention to the real regulation of this area, which has in recent years declined to account for more expensive private health services, where unfortunately it often invests more in brightness than in quality. Solidarity, the main link of modern society, has also been very important in health care, as it has also led to the care of quality and advanced higher education. Solidarity as the fact that Slovenian society invests in the university system and provides solidarity for the accessibility of higher education also to the weakest levels, but also solidarity as the expectation that efforts will be made in Slovenian health and in Slovenian knowledge will return as a good thing, with which we will compete on a global level, and in particular allow the development of prosperity for all pores and for all layers of complex, dynamic and, I hope, open Slovenian society. Social Democrats are pleased to welcome this government's decision to raise funds for the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Development, as well as transformation and the birth of a new faculty, as one of the ways in which renewed confidence in Slovenian knowledge will be concrete. We expect that our higher education and research spheres will return to the momentum that has been partially lost in recent years because of the policy approach that has often been unresolved and without real interest. We believe and want to invest in knowledge - Slovenian ticket to the top of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u16	That's a nice hello to you all on my behalf, too! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, as it is essentially only here to confirm the status of transformation of the School of Health to the Faculty of Health. That this is all in accordance with the legislation, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education at its meeting on 9 June 2008. We are of the opinion that any such transformation into a university can contribute to an even higher quality of health education, which is why we support and also agree with the amendment adopted by the Higher Education Committee, where we have also regulated the area of reimbursement of costs and, of course, the meeting. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support this proposal for a status transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft decree. The vote on the amended motion for a decree will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 5 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence reports on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission in the summer of 2007. The report was submitted by the Commission in order to prevent corruption of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the President of the Commission to Mr Drag Kos for further explanation of the draft report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Unfortunately, I'm going to have to start today's performance with the same words I started last year. Last year we discussed the 2006 report, but now we are in March 2009 and we are considering our 2007 report. I am even more sorry that our 2007 estimates cannot be any better than they were for the year before, that is for 2006. 2007 was not a good year for the development of ethics and integrity and for the suppression of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, this was reflected in the huge increase in the number of reports of corruption to the Commission, totalling 595, which is more than the entire period of the Commission's existence, from the establishment to 2007. This shows, of course, the increased sensitivity of people to the perception of various irregularities in our society, as well as - and this is what we are much more concerned about - to the great decline of confidence in the body, which, however, should be the first addressees of such reports, these are the police and the prosecution. That we have embarked on or continued on a dangerous path in 2007 also shows the responses of people in public opinion polls, on the basis of which it can be concluded that fewer people would then choose to report corruption for two reasons: fear of revenge and belief that no possible investigation will be initiated at all. This means, in other words, that people simply no longer trusted that public authorities with rare exceptions, which we hope the Commission will also be prepared and able to do in the fight against corruption. In 2007, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as a non-constitutional one, recognised as 5 of the 24 articles of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity which terminated the commission, leading to the situation that this area is still governed by the Anti-Corruption Act. This means that today the Commission is acting on a regulation that no longer applies and the regulation that is in force is not applicable. While there have been two attempts, one by the Government in 2008 and the other by the opposition on the basis of a draft prepared by the Commission in 2007 to settle this area, both of them have sailed through the water. And for both of us, it was more than obvious that for political reasons. If the situation in 2007 and, of course, I will not read the report, because I assume that you have read it yourself, we will add to the active establishment of conditions for the development of genuine systemic corruption, the planned collapse of the established system of monitoring of the property situation of Slovenian officials, as would have been the case if the text of the new law on restrictions and prohibitions on holders of public functions had been adopted, the consistent avoidance of the holders of any liability even in the most pronounced cases of irregularities and the complete passivity of the detection and prosecution authorities in these cases, it is clear why Slovenia is becoming increasingly vulnerable to corruption, why we have changed from positive to negative example in this area in Europe and why there are still no serious obstacles to the emergence and development of the worst forms of corruption. Dear Members and honourable Members! Don't mind me finishing this brief introduction with an appeal for you. Please understand, once again, that the fight against corruption is not a privilege or property of this or that political party or political option. That's the problem with all of us! Until everyone understands this, we will step on the ground in this important area, and people will rightly become increasingly dissatisfied, and corruption and its repression will continue to serve only as means for obtaining voters' votes. In such a view, of course, all partial measures and investments in bodies or their activities are in vain. Until we understand that corruption is happening now and also to us, there will be no progress in this area. This is certainly not what Slovenian taxpayers expect from the state authorities of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act as a parent labour force and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision. I give the floor to President Branko Marinič to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected. Dear President, allow me to correct you. My last name is Marinic. The 2007 report, which was sent by the Republic Commission on anti-corruption to the National Assembly last May 30th, was also addressed by the National Assembly under the Anti-Corruption Act at its three meetings. We had our first meeting on December 12th, when we started the hearing and where we found that the content of the chapters should be complemented. This is also what we have asked the Republic Commission to do, which the Republic Commission has also done according to our requirements. In accordance with the legislation in force, the content of the reports was discussed at closed meetings, so that we had to take into account, in particular, the content that we later discussed at the joint meeting and found that all information should be received by the wider Slovenian public. And as much as possible of the information that we have discussed on all three commissions, we have also found, in the presence of the President of the Republic Commission on the Prevention of Corruption, that there are no reservations under Article 44 of the Personal Data Protection Act, so we have made the content of our hearings publicly available on all commissions. Thus, the report is made publicly available to the general public. Of course, at all three meetings of the Commission we held a substantively rich debate. When we discussed the content, an additional explanation was provided by the President of the Republic Commission, mainly in those chapters which were of particular interest to our members of the Commission. It was mainly the international activity of the Republic Commission, and it was also a matter of specific substantive issues concerning the work of the Republic Commission. In particular, the content referred to the so-called construction lobby and, above all, to corruption in construction and other spheres. Here we have also touched on corruption relating to public procurement. After the discussions, which were substantively rich, we have also drawn up the conclusions that we are proposing to the National Assembly to adopt them today after thorough consideration and discussion, namely that the Government, taking into account constitutional provision No. 57/6 of 29. 3. 2007, in the case of the Constitutional Assessment of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, a proposal for a law that will fully regulate the area of combating corruption. We also propose that the National Assembly propose to the Government that, in preparing a new law regulating the prevention of corruption, it examines the possibility of introducing an electronic form, the announcement of the assets status of the officials and the establishment of a computerised capture and processing of these extensive data, which are now located in a large field, covering five and a half sheets of A4 format. We further propose that the National Assembly propose to the Government that, as part of the preparation of amending budgetary acts or acts for the 2010 budget period, it provide for certain resources to be provided for the preparation of professional solutions and for the establishment and implementation of the chosen solution. We are confident that, after a thorough discussion, the National Assembly will follow our proposals and that we will eventually come to the approval of the proposed conclusions, all together, in order to face facts in fact and in concrete terms, and also to help reduce and contribute to the reduction of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposals for decisions adopted by the Commission of the National Assembly under the anti-corruption law. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular the fourth decision in which the National Assembly proposes to the Government that, in preparing a new law that will fully regulate the prevention of corruption, it should designate a body which will oversee the assets of the officials of the body responsible for preventing corruption. At the same time, this new body is also supposed to oversee the work of the so-called anti-corruption body. The fact is that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the officials of this Commission has often been exposed to perceptions that their assets are not transparent to act corruptly and in a similar way. Such control will avoid unwarranted perceptions in the future, usually aimed only at discrediting that body or functionaries. In particular, in the parliamentary group, we welcome the proposal for the government to draw up a proposal, a law that will fully regulate the fight against corruption. In doing so, we would like to appeal to the Government to give the so-called anti-corruption body sufficient powers and sufficient expertise and material resources to enable it to act effectively, so that it will not be merely toothless tigers, as is readily evident to the Commission in order to prevent corruption. Regrettably, the fight against corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is only a paper priority, so the most pressing types of corruption remain undisclosed and, above all, unsanctioned. Here I am thinking mainly of corruption occurring in the public procurement system, i.e. where public functions interact with the private sector and in the area of customerism, where the principle of the appointment of people in personal, political and family relationships or the award of business under this principle remains unsupervised, unpunished and, unfortunately, increasingly acceptable. In the DeSUS Group, we want to finally get an anti-corruption body in the Republic of Slovenia, which will have sufficient authority and power to be able to effectively detect and prosecute corruption in cooperation with law enforcement authorities, to enjoy sufficient respect among officials to take it seriously and not to be subjected to an attempt to end any change of power in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, visitors! The fact that Slovenia is not taking serious corruption shows that it is already considering the Commission's 2007 Work Report, which I think is too late in the National Assembly. As a result, the Slovenian national party also reiterates that such an organised commission, as it does today, works without need, because, as I will say below, this Commission has many problems with itself, including how to provide administrative and technical conditions for work, how to ensure the necessary amount of money for wages, how to ensure conditions for ongoing investment maintenance, which is shameful. Even if we look at the closer organisational structure of the Commission, it is impossible to operate. The Commission also finds that what it finds is only a letter on paper. If we note the work of the Commission, which in 2007 questioned as many as 595 applications and, of course, also submitted them, but only 21 cases have been dealt with by law enforcement authorities, we can again find that both the prosecution and the law enforcement authorities, the Court of Auditors and, last but not least, the National Assembly, which takes this commission seriously, are involved in corruption. I would welcome the efforts that the Commission is making in its work, as well as the President's efforts, especially because we are often called as those who would like to abolish the Commission. Of course that's not true. We want the Commission to be set up in such a way as to make prosecutors of its kind, to be specialized or trained in law enforcement bodies, which could also deal with modern crime, which we do not even see, is a computer abuse, not to mention the electronic abuse of financial instruments. As far as real crime is concerned. See, in the Slovenian National Party, we have a very talkable archive on what we have already written on various addresses, including the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, from the case of Dadas, which you know is time-faring, to Elan, the Red Cross, the Insurance Office of Triglav, the affairs of the Maribor Tama, the acquisition of a police boat, and not to mention where the sale contract was signed just in the office of Mr Bajuk, and it was also by the Court and when it was clearly found that corruption in damage to the largest part of the coastal economy was more than evident. And nothing happened. Even Mr. President of the Commission tells me that the police have documents that Mr. Bayuk or his client has received money do not act. I don't know how the law enforcement authorities can fail to act. The Commission itself has also submitted a report on the General Navigation of Public Persecution Authorities and nothing has happened, and the Court of Auditors has only just now found the correctness or irregularity of the management of business books. This company also has an organised or registered fictional company, Genshipping Corporation, in Libya, which is established only because the General Navigation does not pay taxes in Slovenia; nor does anyone care. So to say - which we can only conclude on this case - about a serious approach to dealing with corruption and customerism in Slovenia is just a fairy tale for children who would be happy to listen to it. What to do when we have so many applications, and only 21 cases that have been brought to the attention of the competent state prosecutors, of which 19 are cases before the Court of Auditors, is of course an issue. This commission, such as it is, is only its own purpose. Once again, this is the position of the Slovenian National Party. And the Constitutional Court has given some kind of warning with the decision it sent. I also submitted this to the President of the Commission as a request at the first meeting that we had convened. I am also a member of this National Assembly Commission. The Constitutional Court instructs the National Assembly and the Government, in particular the Government, to send a new bill to this Chamber, which will carefully regulate the powers of this Commission. I would, of course, be glad that this law would have the fastest possible effect on the parliamentary benches and that in this way it would give the Commission the opportunity to really become a commission to prevent corruption, not just a body that will have its seat, an office, a ficus and a director of several workers. It is simply unacceptable that Slovenia is talking about fighting corruption, but in fact it does nothing to prevent corruption in Slovenia. What Slovenia has done in itself to respect legality and constitutionality proves that there has been quite a bit or a lot in the National Assembly, we can say, the Constitutional Court's comments on the illegality of laws that we adopt in the National Assembly. And it is also corruption, ladies and gentlemen, if various bodies have non-constitutional laws in force, which it has burned and adopted by the National Assembly. On the basis of this, illegality is also being carried out, even on the basis of what the National Assembly has adopted, crime can be carried out. To sum up, I would like to hear from Mr Kos's mouth when he will tackle what appears to be essentially corruption and crime, and economic crime is very much present in Slovenia. I would like to say because I'm with Primorska, just one company that I want to have once on the list of the inspected company and I want to hear about whether everything is okay or not. It's Istrabenz. We know that this company is run by a person who is somehow protected. And this person is likely to remain protected, even though we have already abolished this Istrabenz through this company, it is no longer an OMV. We sold Kolinska, Drugs, destroyed a number of other economic operators in Primorska, dug a big budget hole for the country, but nobody cares. The second company in Primorska, which is considered to be the biggest injury, economic injury, is General Navigation. I would also like to say a few words about this and finally establish the legality of business in this company. In fact, the Secretary of the Government, Mr Cwickl, was with me shoulder to shoulder on the Committee on Budgetary Control in the previous reference when we determined whether this company was operating legally or not. And today it's all sweaty, there's no more comments, which I'm surprised that just once it's found that something really doesn't "make sense", that something really isn't right, that it's not legal, that it can breathe so quickly, and that things can be legalized so quickly, and that they can suddenly be so legal. Elan, who has been rescued twice by Slovenia and paid from state funds to buy from Croatian hands, is today an object that can teach many people how not to work, but is being done illegally. Lawyers on the legal path, since this law allows them to do so, require payment only for consulting more than in essence the monthly remuneration of employees. However, employees are simply thrown onto the road when it is found that there is not enough money to pay personal income. But this committee can't act here either, and this committee has nothing to say about it. It is essential, however, that the report shows that we have made an inventory of the situation for public officials and that we have also scrutinized all the prizes and gifts. This is an essential part of this report. However, the number of applications submitted and the final conclusion of the reports that have been carried out by public prosecutions is a negligiblely poor work of law enforcement agencies. If this Commission is to act in this mandate to prevent corruption as it has worked so far, then it is really better that we do not have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Commissioner Drago Kos! Control, in particular, to prevent corruption in times of crisis are particularly important elements of democracy and the market system of the economy. Corruption is harmful to both the economy and society in general, so in the Slovenian People's Party we have always included the fight against corruption and the prevention of corruption in our society. For this reason, we have always supported an independent organised commission to prevent corruption. In the previous government, we have slightly differed in terms of the views and approaches of the Commission and have interpreted differently the principle in the introduction of the Coalition Treaty: an effective fight against customerism and corruption in the public sector. We are convinced that the abolition of the commission would be a poor solution in particular for the introduction of a system of control over the property situation of Slovenian officials and for the implementation of the Slovenian anti-corruption strategy. In doing so, I should point out that the Commission must act in accordance with its competences and not voluntarily increase them or interpret them in its own way. The 2007 report is assessed as good and accurate. The Commission is obliged to report annually to the National Assembly in order to prevent corruption in accordance with Article 13 of the Anti-Corruption Act. This is also one of the instruments of Parliament's control over the implementation of legislation. It is clear from the report that the Commission responds to initiatives and carefully examines individual suspicions. The report also shows that no major irregularities have been identified by the Commission. Does this mean that there is still order in our society in this area? The fact that the resolutions on preventing corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, as part of its limited options, are being implemented by the Commission is of concern and has already been forgotten by most other state authorities and local authorities. In the Commission’s view, certain measures relating to the implementation of this resolution were more of a by-product of other activities and were not a result of conscious compliance with its content. We can understand from the report that 71 names have been re-elected on the list of municipal officials who have not yet reported the property status, despite the notifications sent to the municipalities, 63 of these officials have been re-elected. While the Commission has exhausted all legal options under the law to obtain the missing asset report and is continuing with other activities in this direction. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to hear what additional activities are like. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already warned at the time of the adoption of the law that it is incomparable with other officials to lay down the application obligations for municipal saints and saints. Here we would urge that the system be updated or modified. We will support the report, and we also support the adoption of the proposed decisions by the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Greetings to the President of the Commission and to the Secretary of State and to all of you, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will confirm and support all the Commission's proposals under the anti-corruption law. The report alone is a difficult and extensive work and shows what is worth mentioning right away in the introduction that the Commission is still in need. This is also the case in this country that we face daily and that is still important during a period of tight economic and financial affairs. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are pleased to note that in order to prevent corruption, despite the severe political pressures of the past government, the Commission has done its job well and, above all, transparent, extensive and, at the same time, extremely important, exemplary in terms of spending public finances. The report in some way only confirms our belief that the abolition of the Commission would be a bad solution and would certainly reflect negatively in the fight against corruption, where the role of the Commission is extremely important. If we point out only some important tasks that we have reviewed in more detail, these are: supervision of the assets of the officials, identification of the incompatibilities of the performance of individual functions, supervision of the limits on gifts and operating restrictions and tasks relating to integrity plans and the formulation of principled opinions. All these tasks are carried out by the Commission with a view to preventing corruption. In our Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, we are also concerned by the Commission's finding that the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, hereinafter referred to as the Resolution, has been implemented by the Commission in its limited capacity. Most of the other state authorities and local authorities apparently have long forgotten it since their conduct. The current government has great work to do in this area to make up for the delay. We believe in the Liberal Democracy that the previous coalition made a mistake because it did not support the opposition's proposal to adopt the Public Sector Integrity Bill. In this regard, we agree with the Commission's conclusion that this law will ensure that the vast majority of the points referred to above are realized. While there was a lot of talk at the time about the fight against corruption, it is more than obvious that this resolution is another type of unfulfilled but unusual but strategic document. In this area, the expectations of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are high, and we are confident that this government will, with our help, take a step forward in implementing this resolution. The adoption of the new law, the Law on Public Sector Integrity, has already included the current government in the Government's normative programme and we are confident that it will be on the parliamentary benches in the second half of this year. The delay in this area will certainly have to be compensated as soon as possible, especially since in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are concerned about public research, which has shown that people believe that corruption in Slovenia is quite widespread and that its occurrence in recent years is particularly pronounced, compared with the year before, to worse. In the preparation and implementation of individual illegalities in local authorities, as well as in some national authorities, there is an increasing frequency of obvious and conscious infringements of ethical, legal and legal rules and the increasingly visible exercise of illegal and illegal interests in the public and private sectors. This, of course, creates ideal conditions for the emergence and development of corruption, including those we least want, so-called systemic. It is also necessary to correct what happened in the previous mandate when the cooperation between the Government and the Commission was insufficient or poor and because GRECA recommendations should be approached as soon as possible. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia shall adopt and support all the conclusions referred to at the end or adopted by the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear President of the Commission, distinguished Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! In order to avoid a misunderstanding, I would immediately point out that we are considering the 2007 report, which is why I will be discussing in this introduction the situation and effectiveness of the authorities and the government in the previous period, not the current government. First of all, it must be stressed that we have lost a lot of valuable time in the last four years to deal more seriously with the prevention of corruption, for which the former government, which has been the main protagonist, has been responsible to deal mainly with whether an independent body such as the Anti-Corruption Commission is necessary or not. Whether this has been done intentionally or subconsciously, for some prestigious, politicized reasons, will show time. But there's something clear today. Over the past four years, according to high economic growth, the full state cash flow has been a fertile ground for the growth of corruption. This is also confirmed by this report and by many other facts, which say that the situation in this area is extremely worrying. Not only has it not improved in the last four years, it has even been noted that all anti-corruption activities have been planned to be disrupted and the conditions for the development and expansion of so-called systemic corruption actively established. The Group of Social Democrats will support the findings and assessments set out in the 2007 Commission report on anti-corruption. These assessments and findings, as you can see for yourself, are not the most favourable and optimistic. In particular, as regards the functioning of those authorities in the country that are most responsible and competent to face direct detection and sanction of this evil, this is corruption and clientism. This is also confirmed by the results of the research presented in the 2007 report, which is not exhilarating. One of the key issues of research, according to people, is the phenomenon and extent of corruption in Slovenia, which is quite widespread and is still on the rise in relation to previous years. At the same time, people still value the media and the Anti-Corruption Commission the most in the fight against corruption, while they have two typical detection and prosecution bodies, namely the police and the prosecution, a good measure of mistrust. In doing so, it is interesting that this confidence in the police and the prosecution was highest in 2005. After this year, it is said in 2006 and 2007, and much more and more disappointment followed. It may be because of this, that is to say, the constant threats following the termination of this commission over the past four years, that it has given people the impression that both politics and the executive branch of power have been created. [[read: Government]] thus, those bodies and institutions that are called upon to fight corruption are not sufficiently interested and motivated to eliminate this social ingenuity, that is, corruption in close connection with clienteleism. Therefore, rumours and constant pressure to lift the commission in 2007 mainly left consequences for the conduct and behaviour of individual state authorities and local authorities and officials who did not take the Commission and its actions seriously enough or even ignored them. Only on the basis of many reminders did they respond, and not all of them did. The climate and the situation were unfavourable for the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission and were beneficial for its growth. The result of the constant attempts to abolish the Commission was also a notorious fact that this year the National Assembly did not adopt the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Moreover, the year before it even adopted a law whose provisions were and are still contrary to the provisions of the UN Convention in the fight against corruption. The Constitutional Court even held it in effect. On this occasion, it is good to note that today this speech has already been given that this detained law is justified and clearly derogates from this Convention by its content. And not only that, it also deviates from some other conventions of the Council of Europe that require the prevention of corruption. These are directives and guidelines specifying that European Union countries must have specific anti-corruption bodies, independent and independent, and not as stated in this retained law, that this body is an integral part or an executive branch, i.e. the Government. Therefore, it is also necessary to take seriously the assessment in the Commission's final report on anti-corruption, which states, quote: "Because of all the overlooked warnings about the shortcomings of the retained law on restrictions and the prohibition on public function holders, it is not possible to assess otherwise than the intention to destroy the already exposed system of monitoring the assets of Slovenian officials and all other acquisitions of the Anti-Corruption Act." End of quote. In contrast to these indications after the Commission’s abolition, the number of people who addressed the Commission in 2007 has increased visibly since the Commission received 595 complaints of corruption, which meant the most until then. On the other hand, there have been criminal charges brought by the police. In 2006, these 44 were only 19 in 2007, although the number of reports of corruption was significantly higher than the year before. Thus, the gap between the public opinion on the degree of corruption with the number of reports of corruption and the specific procedures of law enforcement and detection authorities is clear and large, too large. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we still believe that the positioning of the Anti-Corruption Commission as an independent, independent and professional body is the only right course that is comparable to the solutions in the European Union countries, and not the one defined in the retained law adopted in the previous mandate, which represents a major step backwards. In view of the practice so far, it would be most prudent and wise to draw up amendments and to supplement the applicable law if we believe that its solutions do not create the conditions for practice to be more effective in suppressing this evil, namely clientism and corruption. We are also not in favour of the idea of the Social Democrats Group, which has been reiterated today, that the Anti-Corruption Commission or another body would also be given executive, judicial or possibly prosecutorial and police powers. This, given the division of power, would not be worth it. However, we support initiatives that are also enshrined in the coalition treaty, and we expect additional solutions as soon as possible to strengthen the role and effectiveness of the police and prosecutors in the fight against corruption. This role is not incompatible with the Commission to prevent the corruption we now have. These roles are complemented by one being repressive and the other being preventive. We support the Group of Social Democrats in taking seriously and responsibly into account some of the very important mandatory recommendations arising from the Greek report on the Republic of Slovenia during the third evaluation period and they need to be implemented by the end of June of this year, that is, in 2009. These are recommendations if they are established, which in the future can visibly turn distrust into a legal norm that is now very low, when people continue to question the efforts of state authorities to do anything in the fight against corruption. Once again, in the Social Democrats Group we support the Commission's report, we also support the proposal that the Government prepare a proposal for amendments as soon as possible and that it complements the law that will take account of the Constitutional Court's provisions, while we believe that the parliamentary commission, which is also necessary, is not a suitable substitute for an independent and independent commission, whose report we are considering today, because in this case Members would monitor themselves. And not only is the parliamentary commission not professional, but it is the political body or working body of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we see its role primarily in addressing the system and functioning of institutions in the fight against corruption, but not in analysing, examining the assets of officials. We support the Commission's position to fight corruption as an independent and professional body, and we also support all the conclusions proposed by the parliamentary anti-corruption commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear President! Now I really don't want to fix you anymore. I'm gonna be a Marine. But I'm still a Marine. I listened with great attention to the presentations of the parliamentary groups, which were extremely correct. I must say that, above all, in the substantive part of the examination of the report itself, which was sent by the State Anti-Corruption Commission to the National Assembly in accordance with the legislation in force up to 30. 5. 2008 The contents of the report give rise to many things. But let me first really reject all the claims made by those who are somehow trying to take part in the burden or inconsistent part of the commission itself at the state level to the Government, which, in fact, was transferred by the anti-corruption commission as a state authority, to the government's backs, which was also led by Janez Janša during the period of the government's operation. Certainly, this was observed in 2007 and we have also tried to do so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to make a positive contribution to reducing, limiting corruption. Whether corruption in 2007 compared to the year before or since 2005 somehow received wings for years, or whether it increased or decreased, of course it is difficult to judge. However, according to the number of reported crimes, which may at first glance also have the suspicion of corruption that individuals or organisations have given to the content of the corruption indication, they have also increased because corruption as a social phenomenon has been spoken of mainly in public and in particular by some prominent officials, government representatives in 2007 who have in fact called for and given the initiative to report corruption as a matter of urgency and that corruption needs to be addressed in all fields of social and social life. Above all, we bear the greatest responsibility for preventing corruption and bear those who are primarily called upon to adopt legislation that improves this situation. If I go back to the contents of the 2007 report itself, we can find out this in the first place; and we have also repeated this in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time; the Commission, under the law on the prevention of corruption as a state authority, is dealing too much with small fish, not large fish. If we compare this with the Clean shovel case, and compare it with the contents of the 2007 report, we can see this from the very beginning. For under the substantive treatment of the third point, the supervision of the assets of the officials, this report begins the treatment at the local level. It is true that in 2006 the local elections were held and that this also required a review of the assets of the new officials who were elected in 2006 and who began their duties as well as those who completed that function. However, the content of this report all too much refers to this local level, starting with the municipal councils. And if in the Republic of Slovenia we have 210 municipalities and so many and so many municipal councillors, of course this is a huge burden for the commission as a state authority, given the legal provisions by which the commission, as a state authority, collects these data in classical writing. I believe that these manuscripts are hard to read, in some cases they are impossible to decipher, but the Commission as a state authority is all too concerned with these local representatives. The second level is, of course, if we leave the post of councilman of the municipal council now and look at the small function of mayor, mayor, mayor, who is also the principal of the primary school, mayor or mayor, who may also be in a position of some kind of company, whose majority owner is a municipality or state, and when we get together, dealing with these individual problems is also a great burden for the commission dealing with this at the state level, given that 3,620 such officials had to be screened at the local level in 2007, representing 69.75%. And this is where we would like to point out in our parliamentary group, namely in the SDS, that it is precisely because of this that it is necessary to amend existing legislation in some areas that will allow greater control over the assets of those large fishes, not small fish, which is the most important and precisely because of the fact that, in order to illustrate, there are 424 such officials at the national level, representing 8.43%, in the courts, in the prosecutions, in the courts, in the defences of 1.182, which represents slightly more than 21%. And this is what we would like to see in the legislation in force, so that more emphasis is given mainly to the wealth situation of these officials. I am confident that if I summarize a little of the current developments among government members, the report that this State Commission will submit to the 2008 National Assembly, especially for 2009, will be interesting if we do not get new legislation that will systematically change some of the content proposals that may be good now. The 2007 report also shows that the State Commission has dealt with the incompatibility of the function, and this has taken the Commission a long time. But let us stop in particular where the Commission, as a state authority, is running out of mechanisms in the legal sense to complete things. If I recall correctly, one colleague or colleague stopped right here on behalf of the parliamentary group, where he notes that the Commission, as a state authority from here, no longer has the necessary mechanisms to continue the journey, or it is written that the Commission is doing its work further, but it is not on the basis of what or what the final extraction or conclusion will be. The report also mentions operating restrictions in section 3.6. It is interesting here that the Commission has paid great attention to the treatment of these business entities and has found that it somehow does not have the full list, has circulated and has reiterated its call that, in particular, those who operate in the field of business as business entities in one way or another; that it has received relevant data from the total number of these business entities. In the section on the implementation of the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, I am pleased that, as in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we find that the implementation of the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is poor. And here you have to ask yourself, who's responsible for this now? We know that most of the responsibility here lies with the Commission under the law on preventing corruption at the state level. If she finds herself in the report that only those who have fulfilled the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia have their share of the responsibility. This is also clearly stated in the 2007 report. So the Commission as a state authority has its share of responsibility here and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, perhaps even because of such findings, we get feelings and confirmation that everything is not as good as it should be. In view of corruption, as a social phenomenon in the world and in particular in the Republic of Slovenia, it also means an analysis of the situation in the field of corruption itself in the Republic of Slovenia, which is presented in the 2007 report, in chapter 6, in a kind of visual way, but here is one simple fact that I regret to point out here. In fact, when we find out and see that the composer of the contents of this 2007 report wanted to show us this in individual graphic pictures. However, here, as I have already predicted, I must warn you that even when we give all our knowledge that we are overtaken in order to get different data as a percentage, we do not get it. These graphs, which are around 15, are almost useless in most cases, and this gives an impression, especially in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that this report is very useless in this chapter. And this shows the attitude of the Commission, the State Commission to the Slovenian Parliament, in which we are sitting Members and Members, and be sure that at least most of us will be examined by what these graphs tell us. And unfortunately, once again, these graphs, even if we increase them, don't tell us anything. Either the technique is so bad or it's done on purpose: they don't give you the opportunity to get to the reading of this data. A comparison of the same graph in the 2007-2006 report is therefore not possible, although it is below the source of these graphs and the text states that these graphs and these surveys were done by the FDV, which is also mandated, and in which the Commission, as a state authority, also ordered this, and in particular paid for it. But those who should now get the data and read it, well, unfortunately, we can't do that. And of course, we cannot agree on this in this sense when we consider the content of these graphs. As regards the reporting of suspected corruption, the report also refers to this in the form of a graphic representation in the so-called cake cutters. And if we compare this with the contents of the 2007 report, we get exactly the same data. So these graphs that are repeating themselves and which, I will say, are very amateur, this is inappropriate in relation to the National Assembly by the State Commission, so at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group they would postpone these things to improve in the future, and that the data that is poorly visible or cannot be read at all are not repeated. Today, technology and technology have made great progress here, and they will need to be taken into account. If we look a little bit at the content of this report, in particular in a chapter dealing with the so-called principled opinions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have to these many principled opinions, which somehow dictate and call on the State Commission to leave them better than the Commission's writing them, because in the 2007 report we can find out that these 537 or that these principled opinions were 58, I apologize for 58 principled opinions in 2007, and what do we find? We note that principled opinions do not have legal protection, which gives us another impression and which also confirms the principled opinion found by the Supreme Court in its conclusions in its decision 55/2008 of 14. 2. 2008 Why do we, in fact, point out these principled opinions? We simply point out these principled opinions because somehow the wider Slovenian public gets the feeling that this is a document based on all legal standards, which also has legal protection, which of course is not true. Finally, the average people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia get the feeling that this is a political opinion and reminds them of some political opinions from history and of course this is not good. And that is why it is our view that these principled opinions, which do not have legal protection, are not written so much and are also published on the website of the State Commission. People who trust the rule of law also trust the principled opinions, which are very readable, in certain contexts, I will also say, very much instigate that this is right, and in fact we can find that they do not have legal protection, as the Supreme Court has also found in its decision. If we look at the Commission's cooperation to prevent corruption with other state authorities and local authorities. Well, here in the contents of this 2007 report, the Commission notes that the Government has not dealt with the work of this Commission in any way at that time, although it is certainly in the competent Ministry of Public Administration, which is also now under the leadership of the current government, taking on an important part of the responsibility for regulating the legislation to be regulated in 2007. And the supervision of the work of the commission. We have already heard today, in at least one position of the Group of Members, it has been observed that it has control over the work of the Commission, i.e. the Commission as a State authority, including the Commission under the law on preventing corruption of the National Assembly. Yes, that's true, but these powers are very minimal. But even in our parliamentary group, we do not want to interfere with individual branches of government; we just want legislation to be preferred and taxive, clearly defined where it gives the Commission of the National Assembly clear powers. These powers are now or are being monitored through the three-month reports sent by the Commission as a national authority and through the annual reports, although the current Anti-Corruption Act also requires the State Commission to inform the National Assembly Commission through the current events, and these have also been quite something in 2007. I hope that improvements will take place in the future in this area, and above all that the current legislation of this matter will somehow break down and give precise powers to those who, in order to prevent and limit corruption, must have. Well, and also chapter 10 of this report, financial and human resources issues. As with all public authorities, this Commission, as a state authority, also deals with financial and human resources drought. And if we follow predictions, it's going to be much bigger in the years we come in. Whether it is important and justified to invest public funds, i.e. from the State budget, for a more effective financial and human resources resolution of this Commission, will show time. It is interesting, however, that in 2005, the Commission spent EUR 659 000 in its operations, in 2006 of a good EUR 627 000, in which it planned a good EUR 696 000, but the government then approved a good EUR 463,000, with which the Commission also somehow came out. The report shows that due to the lack of funds for certain analyses I mentioned earlier in the chapter where non-usable graphs are presented, it was not possible to complete, precisely because of the lack of financial resources and also because of human resources malnutrition. In 2007, the Commission commissioned a traditional annual survey on the views of Slovenian citizens and citizens on corruption carried out by the Faculty of Social Sciences, which, as I said, we have fundamental concerns in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we do not get the data we would like, and thus do not represent any added value, so it would be detrimental to any public money for these purposes. Finally, in the 2007 report, employees of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act also dealt with the problems and continuing pressures of the general Slovenian public, that this commission should be abolished, that this Commission does not have the right authority to work for a certain political option in the Republic of Slovenia, that this commission operates on the orders of some who run individual lobbyes in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, all of this is not good. Therefore, it is the task of the Commission, as a national authority, to counter such phenomena, such rumours that it also intercepts such rumours in those parts, which clearly indicate that public opinion on work, on the content of the work of this Commission, is bad, that it is not good and, of course, that the Commission, as a state authority, must take part in these responsibilities. In short, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will adopt or confirm all the proposed decisions proposed by the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act of the National Assembly. All together with the aim of contributing to the reduction of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, which is also linked to corruption in Europe, in the world and, of course, the competent ministry, and in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will have the responsibility to bring it all together within the framework of the existing legislation of this area, which will, in its entirety, intervene thoroughly in reducing or impeding corruption, as a social phenomenon in the Republic of Slovenia, Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. In the Zares Group, we first express great dissatisfaction because we are only dealing with the Commission's anti-corruption report today when we are already in March 2009. Otherwise, the reasons for this are clear to us, because we know that the report was delivered on 30 May 2008, but we also know that there were elections in 2008. It was even more incomprehensible for us to see what was happening with regard to the Commission alone to prevent corruption in the previous mandate. Let us recall all the great attempts and ways to prevent the commission from operating, or even the purely revealed attempts to shut down this commission. This has already been strongly opposed in our previous mandate as the Zares Group, because we are aware of the fact that the time in which we live and the conditions in which we live are very good for the development of corruption and that it is necessary to oppose this phenomenon, and therefore the opposition of the ruling party and the entire coalition in the previous term to end this commission has been so incomprehensible. As is the worrying fact presented by the President of the Commission, Mr Kos, that people's confidence in the relevant institutions is falling and that this confidence-building decline is also very disturbing because of the fact that nothing comes from itself. Thus, if people lose confidence, they lose it because of poor experience, and this experience certainly stems from the two reasons that the report exposes them to. Thus, fear of revenge is a fear of people, which means that in many cases the secret of the one who delivers a matter is not guaranteed and that is why people are afraid of revenge. On the other hand, it feels that even if an indication is reported that nothing is being done. That's very worrying. This lack of confidence has been greatly facilitated or contributed to the precisely ruling coalition in the previous term, which, by counter-systematic work and by diminishing the reputation of certain supervisory institutions, has diminished the reputation of judges, police, for example the Court of Auditors, let us recall the response to the call of the Court of Auditors to the former Minister of Finance or even the double-vote farce. So this lack of confidence is very worrying and we will therefore confirm in the Group all the proposed conclusions that have been written in this 2007 report. We are aware that it is impossible to succeed in preventing corruption with the potential of such personnel as the Commission has, with such equipment as the Commission has, and that it is of those kinds, and this is the kind of ruling coalition in the previous mandate, that has come up with so many offensive or ironic hints about these forms that must be fulfilled and must be fulfilled by officials. Indeed, it is almost unacceptable that in such a form it is necessary to describe the assets of the officials and then report in such a pre-war way any change. This is not just about monitoring the assets of officials, it is about monitoring the assets of all citizens and citizens, because not only corruption and the misuse of these inaccurate data on property conditions are reflected practically in every step. Those of us who are also mayors know this even more when people report data when they apply for reduced payment of kindergartens, when they apply for subsidisation of rents and so on. With the technology available, these information on the property status should be obtained at every step, especially this commission, and then not be surprised and debated in cases where a person who with a large car at kindergarten barely turns when he brings in a child, a local community or congregation pays care for a child in kindergarten. Or you wouldn't have to wonder where people who spend the whole morning sitting around bars and driving around the city in the best cars, that property. Until there is a comprehensive and genuine approach to solving and preventing corruption, there will be no success. Therefore, it is only a comprehensive action and an integrated approach to preventing corruption that ensures success. And that is why it is so much more incomprehensible that the previous ruling team so opposed some lonely committee that, with all honour, endured in the previous term. And I am sure that today, in the debate on this 2007 report, we will hear a great deal of speculation and creation of truths. In the very presentation of the predecessor's opinion, it was heard that responsibility for corruption was borne by the Commission and the Ministry of Public Administration. I think there's going to be a lot of these cases. On the other hand, it is only important that the work continues and that this phenomenon, which is very much present in our beautiful Slovenia, is corruption, let us oppose all authorities and work together in this regard, because it is only in this way that we will be successful. As it is said, the Parliamentary Group will indeed support all the proposed conclusions and the 2007 report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the report and on the proposal for a decision. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, corruption is, in fact, an accompanying part of every society and an accompanying factor in each country. The difference between countries is to what extent and by what system they are opposed to this deviant phenomenon, as well as how much they are helping to ensure that the country has legal principles and legal bases to combat this deviant phenomenon. It is clear from the report that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in our country in the past period has not received all those things that could put the Commission in a position to fight this deviant phenomenon in a fragile manner. Of course, the damage is in what you yourself find that the report comes with a time delay. There are objective and subjective reasons for this, but we would like to see in the future that this time delay somehow shortens and that we get reports earlier. It also seems important to me that this report contains specific guidance and guidance to all those concerned by this deviant phenomenon, that is, the prosecution, the police. I think it is good that all these bodies will be able to accept this report for themselves and include it in their work. I am convinced, however, that the political will of this Government and of this structure is now such that it will allow this Commission all the conditions, staff and financial, that it will be able to carry out its work independently and successfully, and that it will also ensure this important segment of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! To the extent that this Commission makes sense, it is to be understood in its effectiveness from the report itself. It has a very wide range of control options, which in itself dictates that it should be independent and independent. The fact that there is a suspicion that certain cases can be dealt with selectively is possible because, as has been seen, the policy has interfered with the work of this Commission, especially of certain parties, which is unacceptable. The Commission is too busy dealing with officials, municipal councillors and too little with matters which are of great interest to the general public and which cost our citizens and the country the most. Both at the state level and at the local level, they should be interested in where budgetary resources go, public procurement, especially at the level of municipalities, corruption, clientism and still a very hot topic, cartel arrangements. But for such interventions, in order to detect such irregularities, a properly trained staff, people who are not party-coloured, and therefore must also be adequately paid. What we have today does not satisfy and does not correspond to what it should be, of course, if this anti-corruption committee is to have it at all, but if we already have it, it must be an independent institution that will do the job professionally enough and will not succumb to the pressures imposed on the lobby and the party February. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues! It is certainly not good that the 2007 report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption is being considered only now. That's not good, Mr. President. Although I am not aware of why this is the case, it would be appropriate for individual reports to be dealt with when this is normal from a time point of view. It is clear from my assessment that Slovenia needs such a commission, especially because it can decisively improve the situation in the area of corruption, i.e. in an area where we are virtually all of us suspect that it is present in our society, but we are also very well aware that we are not successful enough to detect and sanction this scourge, if I say so. There is likely to be a lot of work to be done in this area. I am dissatisfied with this situation myself, especially when we are talking about major cases of corruption, about the suspicions of calling it that. We must pay much more attention to this area. And I am of the opinion that this committee will have to be given more powers, more responsibilities and more responsibilities, or otherwise organised. In short, changes can be made so that the Commission, or whatever this may be called, can be more effective in all areas and in all respects. I would like to draw attention to a matter that may have disturbed me, i.e., under the terms "declaration" of the suspicion of corruption in individual cases; I think there has already been a talk about it. Many times this institute is used, resulting in an extremely large media response in most cases, and then not much more is actually happening, after that, of course. It would be appropriate for such suspicions of corruption to be examined and investigated by the Commission without delay and finally confirmed or rejected corruption, especially because the corruption charge is a very serious matter. As I know, please correct me. The commission doesn't have this authority, which is not good. And, of course, know that in such cases it is primarily about the reputation and integrity of individuals, so this is all the more important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. For all those who have been Members and Members in the previous term, I would like to reiterate our conclusion that the previous ruling coalition, including the Slovenian National Party, has done everything, but indeed anything to prevent corruption from working on the Commission. It worked here in such a way that it mined its role in the public, and even more so that almost a few months after it was set up, already in the spring of 2005 after an agreement with the Slovenian National Party, it drafted a law which in fact prevented the Commission from even working. It is true that luck came later through the activity of the opposition, including our Social Democracy, the then opposition, and through the Constitutional Court's decision that the Commission was preserved, fortunately maintained, but that it did not have sufficient opportunities for normal functioning. That is why, secondly, I hope that today's meeting and the new government will ensure that, in line with the international knowledge that comes from the group of GRECO's anti-corruption countries, in accordance with the United Nations Resolution on Combating Corruption, which we have ratified for a long, long time has not been ready to ratify precisely because it includes a concrete obligation for all parties to ensure in their country an independent and independent body, from the Government and policy, fighting corruption, that all of this will allow us to create legal bases for the normal functioning of the Commission. In my opinion, one of the conditions for the Commission to function normally provided in the proposal for a budget rebalancing where the current government provides once more resources than the previous one which has taken the Commission's resources and thereby prevented it from doing so is that it provides once more resources than it has had so far. Now she had about six thousand, now a million two hundred thousand euros. I hope this will provide the basic impetus for her operation. I would like to see some positive atmosphere that is being created today, but in the past four years it has not all been warned that we need a commission that will be independent and independent, has been reduced to the fact that a parliamentary commission should work, which should take care only of whether Members and Members and, of course, other officials every two years meet the forms, which I believe is a smaller and less responsible and less important part of the commission's tasks. The Commission must create with its efforts to develop a policy and organised action in all national authorities to fight corruption, so that this and such a possibility is now ensured. I therefore hope that, in due course, the Government will draw up the appropriate legislative bases to be drawn up, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as on the basis of the obligations it has in the GRECO recommendations, so that this positive atmosphere, which is present today, will also be present in deciding that there will not be a recast which we have listened to for four years when there was a speech that the Commission has no authority and powers to take. When there was a speech at the same time that the Commission did not prosecute the perpetrators because, of course, it could not, and it was never intended to play such a role. This was said by those who still took over the powers she had and by the actual decision that such an atmosphere would not exist and that we would be able to form a coherent law in due course with the Constitutional Court's decision to ensure the functioning of the Commission by helping to make the fight against corruption more effective in Slovenia, especially in terms of preventive action, which is primarily the commission's task, and thus the Commission will certainly help to reduce the need for repression because it will also be less corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. Corruption, of course, is a major problem, both in Slovenia and elsewhere in the world. However, we will not be able to eradicate it completely, but we must certainly strive to make it as little or as hard as possible for us to strive for so - called zero tolerance. And, of course, we all have to do our best. John Janša’s government was mentioned here today. It's been a while since there were a few readings. There will be many more during the debate, so it would be good to remember the International Transparency International, which measures corruption in the countries of Europe and the world. In 2001, the government of Dr. Janez Drnovska, the CPI, the corruption index, ranked Slovenia 34th. In 2004, the last year of the government of Mr Tonet Rope, this was the 31st place, it says, we have improved this situation. This situation, achieved during the time of Mr Rope, remained the same in 2005. Even then, Slovenia was ranked 31st on this Transparency International scale. In 2006, Slovenia was 28th in 2007, 27th in 2008, 26th in 2008. I would like Mr Borut Pahor's government to contribute to Slovenia's arrival on this scale in the top ten. That would be absolutely brilliant! And I'd like to talk a little bit more about this phenomenon, the phenomenon of the principled opinion. I think the commission should redefine this work in the future. With this principled opinion, the Commission appears most in the Slovenian public. This is clearly the most popular way of communicating the Commission with the media, with the Slovenian public and with this broad definition of corruption, which is in Slovenia, this corruption, corruption affects an extremely wide range of Slovenian people. Yesterday on the other side, we heard the rhetoric of GOEBBELSA. Interesting. The eyewitnesses of how we adopted some Goebbels laws and so forth, even at the referendum. I'd like to bring back Greek philosophers and Plato instead of Goebbels today. See, Plato distinguishes between opinion and truth, what he says about the opinion that this so-called Kosovo Commission is so eager to appear before the public. Opinion is an insecure knowledge of a situation, unlike the truth, which must be based on facts. The truth must be based on facts. Look, we have a second opinion phenomenon in medicine. This second opinion confirms or rejects the first opinion. The Commission’s work, however, is based on opinions and, in some ways, on Greek sophistication, which in their philosophical knowledge remained mainly or solely in their opinions. But we know what sophism means. Today, by sophism, we mean deliberately misleading claims. These principled opinions of these Commissions also have a large ethical deficit, many times their production is intended for the promotion or disfigurement of an individual for the purpose of accounting. That's not good. These principled opinions are often reminded of the so-called 'journalism', 'journalism', or the famous syntagma 'what if all of this is true'. And given that the Commission will receive substantial resources from the budget balance in the future, I would, however, call on this Commission to invest more energy in quality work and less in self-promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I would say that this report needs to be taken seriously. Above all, the last page contains some conclusions, some statements of concern. Let me read one sentence: "These and all the above conclusions speak of the fact that the situation in the field of prevention and suppression of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is even more worrying than before. The active establishment of conditions for the development and expansion of true systemic corruption, which Slovenia has managed to avoid on its own path so far, is becoming an increasingly rule, and the legitimate, fair and ethical work of individual authorities and authorities is becoming increasingly exceptional." I think we all need to think about this conclusion. I am convinced that with the new government comes a new period of fighting corruption in Slovenia, not only at the principle level, but also in practice. The opposition MPs are sneezing. I am sorry that we have spent the last four years and, above all, the last months and weeks before the elections to hunt witches. In Slovenia, you were hunting some tycoons, and at the same time, as Comrade Potrč said, you wanted to stop this commission, which publicly and loudly points to corruption in Slovenia. And you're reading the PR to the committee. [[Pier]] . I think it is good for the Commission to report and draw attention to the phenomena that occur in the field of corruption in Slovenia. You know, no authority is immune to corruption. You said yourself that this is a problem in Slovenia. So it's time to take a step forward. There was a lot of talk about the opinions of the anti-corruption commission and about "it should be Journalism". Well, journalism also represents the so-called fourth branch of power. And if we pull another parallel here, isn't it right to talk publicly about these things? And the truth is always some ideal, it's not just possible to write something and become the truth; we all know that. I want to say that these opinions have an important impact in the way the Slovenian public perceives these phenomena. You may not agree with these opinions, but these opinions are not written in order for you to agree with them. All I'd say is what I said before. I think we have spent too much time in Slovenia to discuss who is to blame, who is responsible for something, who is responsible for something. We know what the powers of this commission are and that the Commission cannot replace what the police and the prosecution are doing. And I am sure that the new government will be able to create conditions in which law enforcement authorities and, finally, the commission we are talking about today can work better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Commission, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I'm disappointed in the report. Indeed, the report should be more specific. The basic information is also how many calls to the police about the initiation of a criminal investigation and something like that if the Commission itself does not have the authority to file complaints. And it would have been based on this report that the Commission was dealing with serious corruption issues, not police dealing with heated thefts instead of major economic crime. And it's similar here. There is a lot of talk about municipal councillors who have not surrendered or who have, someone said that their operation is incompatible, and there are very few specific matters. For example, the Municipality of Ljubljana, we all know that matters are catastrophic. Now we see that the stadium was practically dedicated to a fictitious company, the construction of a shopping centre and everything. You can tell by the distance that things are lubricated, if I say so myself, there's nothing in there. The building lobby is not being considered, and thank God the police and the crime police are here if they come forward. I've heard before, I don't know if I'm explaining to myself that some lawyer was called a witch because the police locked her up. And this is the neighbor of the Member who said yesterday that the people adopted the Gebbels Act at the referendum, and Parliament's leadership does not jump up, although in this country is one of the first articles of the Constitution: The Authority has the people. And then this people accused themselves of accepting the Gebbels Act. And, Mr President of Parliament, if you were not in the Chamber yesterday, you are obliged to respond to this insult and unheard speech by some Members. If this report were different, more specifically, if the basis for the Commission's work was more accurate presentation of the cases, then I am counting on it to be really possible to reduce the corruption index in Slovenia over time, that is to say, less corruption, so that Slovenia could approach the Scandinavian countries. As has already been said, during the previous government, the situation in Slovenia has improved according to Corruption Transparency Index, that is unequivocal. But the situation is not good enough. Corruption is an eternal phenomenon, so it will never be ideal, it will never achieve a good enough state. I turn to the fact that some have been disgusted by the late consideration of this report. I am dissatisfied myself, on 30 June 2005, one month and a half before the dissolution of Parliament, the report came. I wonder why the report for last year was not given by the end of February. I hope the report is already submitted for last year. It is now March, and it would seem normal for all such committees to complete their work, just as the final account must be handed over by every state authority within this period. So, from my parliamentary practice, I know that if a report comes so late, it is not possible to deal with it in the last month of the year, because Parliament is then overwhelmed by matters that lie "on the lager" for one year. But, of course, and this is where I come in, we see that she has denied the new power. Parliament has been working for four months, and this could be discussed in the first month following the establishment of the government if it were put on the agenda. This is where the professional services are mostly yawning. Nothing. For you, it seems that this report is unpleasant, because the report imposes - and not the previous government - a number of things. It says here - very important mandatory recommendations and very relevant under various headings. But, look, the Justice Department sent one of these cases to parliament. Mr Kos will tell us what has already been sent, how the Government has reacted on this basis. And if there is nothing in the report, then I will say that this report was probably written because it was expected that the previous government would continue to rule, that it would win the elections and that it would be some kind of pressure on the door of the previous government. Thank God you wrote that, but show me what the new government has done. And don't tell me there are journalists at the Justice Department who need one more year to get started, but there are in the Ministry of the Interior. The Interior Minister deals with deleted persons, but he does not clearly deal with corruption or in the field of deleted persons, promotes the production of basics so that those involved in aggression can also receive compensation. Well, the new authorities have failed. She didn't do anything about it. And of course, now that I have the opportunity, I will also say that I am certainly in favour of an effective commission. And I think the commission, exactly with Mr Kos, has the expertise to do so. Highly qualified, I'll give you that. However, what I clearly see and at least hope to improve that the Commission used in its work has been politicised. Not from the outside, but from the inside. I consider this commission's president to be a plus not to hide where his political heart is beating, on which side. And that's okay, that's transparency. However, I have to say, and I have also publicly pointed out that I was frayed with what you did with your, your expert opinion number 98, with 13. 9. 2007 In fact, at the time you presented a principled opinion on how the police and police conduct were controlled when the Strojan family were placed in the Refugee Centre Postojna. Think of it as a matter of fact for the Ombudsman if there was anything there. And the internal police audit, it's not and can't be related, even though you found some bridge where you said it was also consistent with the definition of corruption. And the problem is that for you to be able to carry out this policy, you have ordered a legal opinion in an area that is unintended and that was the purposeless use of budget money - about a million euros or as much as you will say or not so much, but a lot of budget money has gone unintended. [[...]] And who will assess whether this is corruption, I have called for the press conference to have the Court of Auditors say something. It's been two years. There's nothing. Because in the Court of Auditors - there too the heart beats one politically very much in the middle and look, this is an exemplar example of the commission's politicisation. [[...]] At the time of course, when some used the Strojan family - today we know how to deal with crime and with it - to muck Slovenia abroad, to violate human rights and so on. If in that refugee centre in the Postojna Police there was little restriction on movement or supervision of what would be missing in the neighborhood so that something would not be missing - that is corruption for one person, that is corruption! And here I want a really precise explanation and also why there is nothing to answer to about this report, although it has been asked. At the press conference, I drew attention to the problem of the purposeless use of money, but I did not see it anywhere in the means of use. I felt like a relative when I saw an empty date for the report that you were waiting for what the Court of Auditors would say about the case and that you would bring something like this in. But it obviously wasn't that. And look, I want the commission to deal with corruption in the future, that it's independent, but if someone can't get rid of this political, say, engagement, he has to be so principled that he doesn't get involved in such matters. I think so much, I hope I get the right answers. In fact, this principled opinion that you've been dealing with here is actually alarming. Here, colleagues, you have to agree and you have to look, because - once again I say - a summary of the expert opinion on the legality of police action. About the legality of police action! Nothing to do with financial, material things. There's nothing! I don't want such principled opinions anymore, but I want those who are acting in the right direction who are really on our way to fighting corruption and talking as much as possible about corruption in the National Assembly. I have mentioned several times that I was once at a GOPAC conference - Global Organisation of Parliamentarians against corruption, to fight corruption, of course, and it was said, "The more public talk, the more corruption is discussed in Parliament, the only one of the main anti-corruption medicines." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to answer Mr Ptræ to what he himself said earlier about the previous functioning of this Commission and to involve us as the main actors for the abolition of this Commission. I would like to remind Mr Potrč that I do not wish to read the magnetograms, but it is recorded in the magnetograms that we were one of the initiators of the meeting of the National Assembly in previous mandates when corruption is to be discussed, and his political option was then opposed because it was the time that the biggest theft occurred. At that time, the state property, respected by Mr Potrč, even with the help of your political option, was sold without invitation, companies went into private hands just like that, following the current lane. Today, we know that these companies, more or less, are almost all closed, hundreds and thousands of people on the road. I'm not going to mention to the company, nor was the Red Cross sacred to you, and there you had your own man who had stolen this fund. However, in order to be able to say something in the context of what needs to be said today, we are considering the 2007 report, but it is a sad fact that, although the Commission has prepared a report in an exemplary and comprehensive manner, it finds that nothing has happened at the level of the State authorities since this report. It wasn't the police, it wasn't the D.A., it wasn't the Court of Auditors, it wasn't the courts. And do you know why it did not take action or out of 595 cases, only 21 cases have been brought before the courts? Because each government first replaces the directors when it comes to power and these directors take care of the financing of political parties. And political parties are the first to be corrupt, except for ours, who has never been in the government. It's true that, dare you, we didn't have those options, we weren't tempted, thank God. But you have been and have very dirty fingers and are guilty of the many fates of Slovenian citizens and citizens, which is today a social problem. And this social issue is still growing because we are dealing with corruption. Corruption will not be pursued as long as political parties are involved in corruption. One more thing, in the case of General Navigation - Mr Kos, I would like to ask where this case has landed - we have clear evidence that current policy is involved, including the court, the courts and individuals who are still performing functions that bear this. However, we sold the company without any estimate of what it is worth, for 50 million euros to a foreign citizen who is a dagger or what appears to be a very large international economic criminal. This is a disgrace to the Slovenian people, because in this way the only Slovenian shipowner has been handed over to foreigners. And here you also have the fate of our sailors, who are now in the institution, nor have the right to compensation, nor are their contributions paid for their period because their General Sailing has hired them at the company "Genshipping Corporation", which is a fictional company registered in Liberia. Nobody's interested in that room. I've talked about this a lot. Mr Kos passed on this documentation. I want to know what's gonna happen to this company. Another example, which is an eclectic violation of all the existing laws and laws, is the Istrabenz, which no one has touched yet, but I believe that it will not be, because it is led by a person who has put quite a good part of Slovenia in the hands of Croats. This is Mr. Igor Bavčar. He's probably protected because he knows how many others he stole. That's why he can't even be mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want corruption to be really pursued, then we must - even this government, it is the responsibility of this government to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. The decision of the Constitutional Court for this commission is clear. This commission does not have the right legal basis for action, and this has been recorded by the Constitutional Court in its statement. It would be right to set up a commission that is independent, apolitical and professionally strong enough to really prosecute economic and other crime, not just keep records. For if this report is good for you, which shows that of the 595 cases that the Commission has dealt with - of course, thoroughly and I believe that it has put great effort into this, expertise - only 21 have been processed, then it is fine. Please accept this report. For me, this report tells us that there are many things wrong in this country. And lastly, I'd like to ask you that. Who will be responsible for this economic crisis, which will result from this continuing economic crime, is also not being dealt with by the Commission because it does not have adequate powers, who will be responsible for the new social problems in the country, which we know are increasing from day to day and that the number of people on the road is essentially interfering with abnormal numbers from day to day. We come to record 100 or more unemployed a day. Will this be the responsibility of this government, which says that it wants to curb clientism and corruption? Isn't it when we sold these companies, just under the table, at the time of the Robbery Government? That's what you know. Many successful companies were then sold. Mr. Bavčar bought and later closed the Kolinski Road, and no one talks about it. The tobacco plant has been sold and closed for years now. I could talk about other companies, in Elan we note that today directors pay high salaries and legal advisers enormous amounts of advice, which I don't know is just flat-rate, which is what two or three lawyers are doing in these areas. And of course, they're still talking about underpaid, and people are losing their jobs and they're just throwing them on the road. Isn't that corruption?Oh, my God! Why don't you want to talk about this, honourable Members and Members?Oh, my God! Why are you full of mouths and words about wanting a legal state, without corruption, without customerism, while allowing it? It is up to you to knock on your conscience and see what you have allowed in the past, and so have your leading men. They stole their own people and plunged them into misery and want. And that is why today you do not want to take responsibility, the number of the unemployed, and the social threats are increasing from day to day. When the law of the street happens and when these people come to ask you how you handled their, then their social property, you probably won't have an answer. And if the state of Slovenia is a social state, it's only on paper because we know it's not. Not a bit of sociality and justice in the actual life of Slovenes and Slovenians, because big ones can make big mistakes, but small ones are already closed if they take chocolate in the store.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Yuri, Mr. Potsch has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain to Mr Friend that, at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly on 13 July 2005, a proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of the exercise of a public function with a profitable activity, which was abolished by the then Anti-Corruption Act, the first-signed candidate was Mr Zmago Jelinčič. And I was referring to this bill when I said that, at the time, the Slovenian National Party had helped the ruling coalition not to be definitive, but to this law, which was later repealed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, had abolished or made it difficult for the Commission to prevent corruption. I didn't talk about any ownership process, I didn't talk about it, Mr Friend, that your client could be guilty, could not be, because she never wanted to be in the coalition, and it didn't help or hurt anything, but it's true that many times she says things that are very thoughtful. But I think it is useful and necessary for Mr Friend not to think that I have read him anything other than from the minutes, once again, the 8th meeting of 13 July 2005 is visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Franco, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will use these three minutes with specific questions or considerations. It is clear that the Commission is in charge of preventing corruption of thorns in the fifth world, some parties, in particular those who have wanted to end it in the past, and especially today is a thorn in the fifth of some strong social actors, who have a strong clientalist connection with politics. What's interesting about the performance of a colleague of friends is what he didn't mention. Interestingly, he did not mention some of the large companies and major affairs that have occurred in the media area recently, including a large state-owned company called Luka Koper, and another company has a large state share called Intereuropa. These are companies that also manage logistics activities that are known to be many indictees and data that say that there have been very controversial transactions. As far as I am aware, the Commission has already reported a number of things in order to prevent corruption, but what the Commission notes is usually in the drawers of some authorities which should ensure the continuation of an investigation or finding. Unfortunately, that's not happening. And that's the main problem. It is my opinion that this Commission is still under-qualified and that it would be good to support all the proposals that will ensure that both this Commission and the Court of Auditors, as the Ombudsman, and, after all, the Constitutional Court also have the dignity and opportunities they do not currently have. The fact is, there are indications and suspicions of the very controversial behaviour of large companies. That's why I'm asking Mr. Kos here, what's on it? Why aren't things moving forward? We are all very concerned in Cyprus because we know that you have found much in the connection between Luka, the Municipality of Koper and other subjects, but nothing moves. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Meanwhile, the alarming results of these companies, which threaten the economic stability of our region, are of concern. And some [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you. Time's up. I'm sorry. Mr. Friend, the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u56	The president mentioned that I do not mention Luke and Inter-European. If I were to read the Members' questions, I would see that I have asked the question of a Member of Parliament, and that is precisely what we are welcoming about Luke - this revision. The biggest messes, which I say on purpose, and once again I highlight the pigs, have occurred when this company was led by their man, is said, Mr Bruno Korelič. All the construction work was done in black. The ecological threat, which is now very large in Cyprus, proves that it was denied at the time. Not to say what the economy of Slovenia was caused by an investment in the 7th pier in Trieste, from which we did not draw a single euro of profit, but a million euros of expressed loss. And last of all, if I limit myself to the work of the mayors, your brother's been getting a lot more pay than he should have been, and I'm wondering if that money came back, like the mayor, of course. And, for example, Mrs Breda Pečan has illegally sold land in Isola without any invitations, Mr Kos, perhaps you have also acted on what you did on your committee. So we wouldn't have started with this laundry, you know, because then we should have extended this session to Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, and probably wouldn't be done yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Friend, I don't think it's right for us to take this personally in Parliament; we have to stick to the topic we're talking about. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that, unlike most of the predecessors, the report is highly positive. It is presented on 55 pages and it would certainly be difficult to get more detailed. Above all, such reports must not, and cannot, be, what some may wish, to treat people with names and surnames. Of course, the final judgment is open to other authorities and, of course, matters are presented accordingly. I think that the high added value of such reports and of the anti-corruption commission is mainly preventive. I am sure that in this country, too, those who are in charge and who are taking the planes and other means of transport on the road will think more about it and seek the most cost-effective and rational decision for citizens. That's definitely good. Mayors, when before certain decisions, based on the actions of our colleagues, predecessors, from all over the country, when you see the story in the media, you think about it and learn from it. Since I am from Gorenjska, I am sure that the Gorenje mayors will not go to future football games at the expense of any other means, but only for their own enjoyment and their own wallet. However, I certainly agree that this story of the anti-corruption commission must be upgraded with the relevant authorities. I am therefore pleased that in the coalition we are considering whether to set up a financial commission or set up an investigative office to deal with these concrete worst crimes. Above all, I think there are a lot of readings in the National Assembly today, but just like that, there are flat-rate accusations. All citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, particularly Members and Members, are obliged, when we see that something is wrong, to report it to the relevant authorities, not to the anti-corruption commission, and I am appalled when I hear certain colleagues explaining what is wrong with Ljubljana, and they do not hope to write a single complaint and sign it. For several weeks now, we have been listening to the extent to which those who have harmed and participated directly in the aggression against Slovenia should have been erased. I invite them once again, I also have the status of veteran war for Slovenia, if all of them are not in their pants to do so, respected colleagues and colleagues, tell me the names and surnames of those whom you recognized on the recordings that carried the flags, those who dropped cluster bombs on Bear, I promise you, immediately, in forty-four hours I will write the complaint myself and suggest that they be deleted from all these lists. But it takes a little courage, a little determination, and not everything on the run. There was also a lot of talk about the former government. I will not comment on this myself, it was the government of all Slovenians, including mine, but it began its mandate with the three K's, and all those who have been together for four years - now it is time to tell you what specific matters in the area of the place, corruption and customerism you have brought to an end through all the ministries and courts. But mostly because I can see that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The time is running out, the move is all of us, especially by actions, not by saying that we behave differently. [[...]] When something's wrong, let's just say it and sign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u60	Respected and respected. Someone once said, "Corruption power plus monopoly minus transparency." I would add to this that this equation has a common denominator, and this is the erosion of political and other ethics. I fear that corruption between us, in Slovenia, is much more than we detect through established system mechanisms. Especially in all its dimensions. For I believe that the register of officials' assets is only one way to identify, prosecute and prevent corruption. However, we know much less about corruption between officials, where at least individual rumours point to the fact that there is a lot of corruption. Also because the power of power is so absolute and the behavior of power is often full of ignorance. The latter is, in my opinion, one of the key challenges for combating corruption. Corruption, as we all know, poses a fundamental threat to democracy. Every democracy and every power is subject to it. Therefore, I do not pretend that there is no exception to the new Slovenian government. But in the ideas and plans of the new government, however, I recognize the sincere intention - to step on corruption, to give corruption detection and persecution institutions strong teeth and, therefore, to strengthen the system's levers to fight corruption. Finally and most important - in Slovenian politics and society, we raise honesty and ethics. They say trust is good and control is even better. This logic leads me to think to what extent and where the values of modern Slovenian society are "good". I may be naive, but I share the deep and firm belief that all people are essentially good. I prefer to remain naive all my life, rather than change this fundamental belief and not least to move towards my political action, to create positive changes. The integrity of an individual, an organ, an authority or a state must be drawn from this value "good". I reject the remarkable equation of Nobel laureate and mathematician John Nash that freedom in society is possible only if individuals in this society are selfish, suspicious, and that consequently the social balance of freedom is based on exclusive care for their own benefit. I go to the opposite of the vision that an open and connected community of free individuals who are guided by good and fair in life, who, with their knowledge, work and creativity, form prosperity for themselves and their families, and share this happiness with the community with which they are linked by common trust in the good of honest people. That is why I also support the proposed conclusions and, above all, the approach to the drafting of a new law on the systematic and comprehensive fight against corruption by the community. I was among the first to prove a serious suspicion of corruption and, as a result, major damage to public property in the case of land exchange for the Moroccan greenhouse. The Kosovo Commission subsequently confirmed these positions. I therefore hope that, on the basis of this report and the proposed conclusions, we will continue this debate and firmly step on the back of corruption in this mandate. For this we need new legislation, the emphasis on the independence of the Commission, which must also have stronger powers and systemic conditions for more effective police cooperation, i.e. the Commission, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. As it is said, the proposed report and conclusions will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I also found other information myself when I received this report, and I also received interesting results on Transparency International. It is clear from this list that in the high cities of the low-corruption countries, those who are economically very successful are leading the Scandinavian countries and most European Union countries are rapidly growing or strong economies in the Congo and Singapore. So we can somehow link the economic performance of countries to a low level of corruption. And in this light, I see the extraordinary, great importance of fighting corruption, which is not necessarily - or I have a slight doubt if it is the commission that brings good results or good improvements. This is only a broader segment of all government services, and especially law enforcement. With optimism, I have been given extremely good results in recent years when Slovenia has been making progress every year since 2004 and is already 26th in 2008. It would be desirable for this favourable trend to continue. It might be interesting to note from this report that Croatia is at a low 62nd place, and perhaps it would also point to this fact as our neighbour draws closer to Euro-Atlantic connections so that not only maps are the cause. For many times it has been pointed out that there are other reasons for closing the chapters of Croatia, because they are in poor condition. But I do have some comments or some dilemmas. In fact, the commission deals with a wide spectrum - from very large stories to a trifle of marginal municipal officials, who have to report their condition with annual reports. In the case of the very low profits of municipal meetings, however, the size or possibility of corruption is very small. This pushes the commission, making them miss an elephant because of a large number of flies. I also have a dilemma because we need to report on the gifts received. In fact, for the first time, this rule is old and there are still prices in the tolars in terms of the value of these gifts in tolars: 15,000 tolars, 30,000 tolars. And it is the next dilemma whether it is the price from where they came from, whether it is the price in Slovenia. Example: In Thailand you buy a nice ring with a few rubies, which is three times more expensive. In keeping with the Thai price, I don't have to report it if I take into account the Ljubljana price, it's necessary to report it. I have already mentioned that the commission deals with small things, which, of course, is completely irrelevant. I think that in the plan or plan of work there was also a verification of the purchase of a dump and broom by a government official and the handling of municipal councilors. This leaves little time, energy, experts on big things, which will also need to be reviewed in future reports. Indeed, it is now and in recent days that we find that the flight of the country's president to Sarajevo has cost too much to be able to fly between 39,000 and 57,000 euros more cheaply on this route. He also flew twice too expensive to Gaza, and the final result was that a lower referee offered a resignation. I think that the President of the State is more responsible, especially when the matter has come to the public to focus more on this matter. The effective work of the Commission or to help prosecute corruption will certainly be welcomed by the financial police, the Court of Auditors and the organised crime prosecution team. There are still new areas open, new challenges: crime through electronic media, which is rapidly growing and may still be poorly covered. Again, the question is whether this is the work of the Commission or whether the work of the authorities is being prosecuted. Well, I've already mentioned that it's precisely because of the petty fishing that the commission did nothing or very little in Elan's big affairs, the bank and Clean shovel that the law enforcement authorities took the initiative here. Above all, I wonder what the role of the Commission is, because the reports are often based on an opinion, in fact there is no solid evidence in a number of cases, evidence that could go to court and be a good basis for some well-founded criminal complaint. And that is the possibility of misusing this commission for political purposes. Well, you start a policy or a political group in the sense of talking, investigating, investigating, and investigating, and then when it's time to put something concrete on the table, it turns out that it was only after the Serbian saying, "what happened to Grandma, it was shot." So, I will certainly confirm the report with great desire and high expectations that we will continue to go up the unsuspecting ladder, because this will be a good basis for our economy, and we all hope and work to get through the crisis and with some new start, the good economic atmosphere goes to even higher positions, which we want, which we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since I've got three minutes left, I'll just be for a little while. It is said that the report each year with the same conclusions, more or less the same conclusions reflecting the executive power of the Commission. The barren results of the anti-corruption commission are clearly due to the lack of political will to suppress corruption and customerism. In this case, it is not possible to attribute the blame to the commission, but we take the commission as an on-call culprit because we have no other. The urgency was the financial police, the Slovenian National Party demanded it, proposed it in the previous millennium - nothing. And it seems that the new call of the National Assembly does not show any interest in the introduction of the financial police. The building lobby is growing, in general, the enlarged tycoon lobby has begun to send its cancer hunters to all times of social and economic life. He's getting so strong that he's already gone so far as to buy public information funds that he's setting up mayors to participate actively in the elections, he's funding the elections. And why? How can we let this happen? If I look only in my own region, it's an obvious case. Or there is no way to do some analysis of where these people get money, where these people get the money to finance political parties, with hidden funds. No wonder, then, that they have outgrown politics and exercised their will and that they have already acquired the authority to represent the public interest! So they outgrow us who have this function! Please, things are already so critical that I don't know if we're going to decide on the financial police or not. What can this commission actually do with limited resources and human resources? It seems that no matter what call of the National Assembly it is, it's always the same song. So sooner or later, we're going to have to make a decision about the financial police because they're already threatening to make these Taiwanese construction lobbyes so strong that they're actually setting up the entire political elite in this country. At that time, of course, war is lost; we can see it in the "banana" republics, where it is a long time-consuming fact. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I support the report that we are considering today, although it is in some form of discregnant with that scale, repeatedly mentioned as "Transparency International". In fact, on every matter and so also on that scale is the power to look in two ways, it is said, pessimistic and optimistic. Colleagues from the SDS saw this thing more optimistic, and they could also see it pessimistically. You could say that in other countries the situation is even worse than in our country, and they went slowly down that ladder. But I believe more in this report, which we are dealing with today, because it is supported by a serious analysis of public opinion and other relevant data, which shows that the situation in this area in Slovenia is worrying, and if we link some things, even worse every day, I hope to say so. That report says a lot. Among other things, it points to some real powerlessness that such a commission as it is now able to function more effectively and that, on the other hand, different authorities would take it more seriously and take it seriously. Nevertheless, I believe that the Commission has acted in its best interests and, despite the fact that its previous executive powers, as well as the previous parliamentary majority, have continued to submit to authority and to make work difficult, has taken a very prominent place in the fight against corruption and its prevention in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me just remind you how difficult it is and how much trouble the previous government has had to prepare and put into the legislative procedure the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. This is evident only because this Convention requires a State Party to establish an independent body, for which the State must also provide adequate financial resources and trained specialised personnel, which will be difficult and difficult tasks at all. The existing commission, however, was not a year after the previous government. The previous government has shown this several times unequivocally. The pressure of the then opposition, public opinion, as well as the international public, finally forced the previous authorities to give in to the ratification of the National Assembly only at the end of the mandate, but to submit the Convention to the Assembly, and at the same time, let us not forget the existing anti-corruption commission, thereby reducing the financial resources so that it was barely enough or not enough for the smooth running and survival. The situation in this area is changing very quickly, by definition always worse. The perpetrators are increasingly organized, clever, and the disease is growing rapidly. However, the emerging forms of corruption are increasingly complex and difficult to identify. This is also evident in the public opinion that things in this area are turning out to be worse for us. However, our entrepreneurs and economists, who bear the brunt of overcoming the economic and financial crisis, are increasingly reminding us that Slovenia has become a country where, without giving bribes, it is not possible to get a job and cannot work successfully. That smells like systemic corruption, doesn't it? It is therefore undeniable that more appropriate legislation in this area needs to be addressed as soon as possible, taking into account international standards in the regulation of this area of the fight against corruption, including the ratified United Nations Conventions, the Council of Europe, such as the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption and its Additional Protocol, which indicate how these acts should also be assessed and ensured more appropriate detection and prosecution of these offences. On the other hand, today it was very clear to see how the former government party interpreted the role and position of the anti-corruption commission. It was considered to be a state body, even more precisely a government body to serve the current government and be obedient to it. If not, it is necessary to replace the President, if this is not possible, to withdraw her financial resources and capable co-workers. But if that doesn't work, then the commission just shuts down. I hope that the opposition will now support legislative solutions that will ensure a more effective fight against corruption, as well as the independence and independence of the Commission, which will also enable its powers to be more effective. It is now up to you to help set up such a commission that will in the future be everything other than what you have previously read - toothless tiger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u68	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! I cannot agree with those who claim that the anti-corruption commission is its own purpose or even a toothless tiger, as we have heard today. If that were true, then the public opinion polls would not testify to the fact that, among all the institutions involved in corruption in our country, respondents, that is to say, the people who have answered these questions are mostly in favour of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption - the second is immediately for the media, almost the same percentage - while the police and the prosecution are ranked in the fifth or sixth place. The fact that these allegations are not true also shows that in 2007 this Commission received as many as 595 allegations of corruption, although the Commission does not have investigative powers. This is an expression of the confidence that most Slovenians have in the Commission and also in Mr Drag Kos himself, which is one of those in our country that has contributed most to the regulation of this area in Slovenian society. Regrettably, the previous years, that is, the year 2007 we are talking about today, were all the more so than the favored work of this Commission. The study, mentioned in the report, notes that in 2007 the number of applications was lower than in the previous few years. And the cause? Again, the survey shows that nearly 40% of respondents report that they were afraid of revenge. It is also interesting to note that 20% of people were convinced two years ago that the repressive authorities would not have started investigating anti-corruption procedures and anti-corruption procedures and investigating reported corruption. So much for the relaxation and so much for the efficiency of repressive state authorities in the previous term. Today's debate by some opposition colleagues also shows that they are still disturbed by this body. This is understandable, of course, because despite all the pollens sent by former coalition parties, the Commission has managed to detect and mediate to the authorities of repression, which then continued to investigate these acts. And I'm sorry that we're listening to so many visions today, which then lead to nothing more than a conclusion that when you step on your tail, it just goes off. That is why I am convinced that in our country the future attitude towards the fight against corruption will be different. It will be necessary to strengthen the independence of this commission, increase the efficiency of the police and the prosecutions, introduce mandatory anti-corruption clauses into all public procurement contracts, as well as the introduction of the so-called financial police, which some colleagues have already talked about today, could significantly dampen the door to corruption. I think this will be successful, as the current government has foreseen all these measures also in the coalition treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u70	Nice greeting, Honourable Vice President, Honourable President of the Commission, colleagues, colleagues! In the National Assembly, we have already discussed the Report on the Ombudsman, today we are considering the Commission's Report on the Prevention of Corruption, and in some ways these two reports are reports that can identify the blood count of the country we are in, and what is the state of both democracy and the state of the spirit in the society in which we are. Dear colleagues, colleagues, more than the fact that the position and opposition are proving what someone has done in order for this commission to work well, what would not have been right for all of us, that this commission is absolutely necessary, and that it is also our task for other similar bodies to provide them with normal conditions for their work on the one hand and, on the other hand, an appropriate legal framework for them to be able to deal with the right issues. That is why I am disturbed, even here today, before this assembly, by the judgments of some of the people whom you refer to as names and surnames, which on the other hand you read to the guardian, and on the other hand to the commission that it exposes individuals too much in its reports. I myself think that Parliament should finally understand this and act and, in addition to these bodies, also to other law enforcement bodies, such as the police, the prosecution, the judicial system, give normal conditions for its work and leave everyone to do his job. In these debates, when you have, I see now in every session of Parliament, during the coalition and the opposition of the permanent duel, please be more precise sometimes. In the People's Party, which was part of the previous coalition, today's opposition, we have supported the work of the Commission all the time, and we have never had such moves and activities as to prevent the work of this commission. Since the name and surname of the President of the Commission have often been exposed, sometimes we have been somewhat joking, but sometimes we have said a little bit, if a person is disturbed, then let them talk about this person, not the institution that I think he is doing his job. Today, a number of words have been made about the Commission’s pear, the press, and these matters. I think it would be right for all of us to be a little more sensitive in these matters in our country than we are today, and we pay attention to these statements that we make, what we do to those people we talk about. This applies to both the police, the prosecution or the commission on the one hand. I would really like to be as effective as possible, but sometimes there are also pianists' contributions, where people are first raided and put in the media, and later when it is found that none of these cases will be as few as possible - that such cases will really be made public when enough of these suspicions of corruption or, on the other hand, when the prosecution and the police are pushing people into marks, let matters be considered and done as they should be. Because here were the views of the scale. I myself think that many times in our Parliament, driven by this inter-political struggle, we are prowling ourselves and often too pessimistic and poor in this society. Today, one scale has already been mentioned, and let me mention the scale or results of the study already carried out by the former Ombudsman in the framework of the OECD, where the development of an individual country has been discussed and were parameters such as economic indicators, health care and the school system. According to those parameters, we also ranked from 28th to 32nd. When we asked people how pleased they were with their position, it was a study in 180 countries, but we ranked about 60th. I think it is our doing or sometimes the yellow press that creates that many times we view our situation in our society as pessimistic as it might be necessary. I'm a long way from saying there's nothing wrong with this country. In order for the situation to be okay, we must do exactly what I said in the introduction; establish an appropriate system, enable it to function normally and not reduce their integrity and also ensure the conditions for this work. And when we do that, I think that in the end we will also be in public opinion polls, which are also now in this area in discrepanish with some indicators, I think part of this is that we Slovenians are also a little too difficult, too pessimistic and perhaps too little confidence. In this way, I will also support this report, and I would also like to make a successful work for the President and the Commission below.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! I often feel that corruption is more in those countries that are a little distant from us. This feeling is mainly due to the fact that corruption may be slightly more visible and clear there. But to our great regret, we can find again and again that corruption among us is increasing, one that is primarily hidden and knows the channels of how to act; yet more how to remain primarily unpunished in these actions. If anything, then in our country it has become almost everyday, or at least it feels like no one is responsible for anything; and it is wrong. We have the Commission to prevent corruption, which in the past has always, or often, been, the target of political attacks and, above all, obstacles to its work, particularly by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not only that, some of the members of the said party are still making a fool of this commission and are working hard to ensure that the Commission does not succeed in its work. Mr Jerovšek even wants effective commissions, but opposes them. He is concerned about how many parties have a report from the Commission, not the actual corruption that is taking place in our country. This, unfortunately, is not going together, and this is another proof that some people are unfortunately getting excited about preventing corruption; even more so, if someone who leads the committee gives a negative opinion on someone who comes from the SDS, they are suddenly unable to lead this commission. Dear gentlemen! It must be clear to all of us once and for all that the President for the Prevention of Corruption or the Anti-Corruption Commission cannot be yours or ours, but someone who is completely independent and who hopes to tell himself at the right time who and when he has committed some corrupt act. Once again, we do not prevent corruption effectively enough in this country and many times those who are truly corrupt do not respond to us. Slovenia has a resolution on the prevention of corruption, which unfortunately, under its limited options, only the Commission has planned to prevent corruption, and most of the other state authorities and local authorities have, unfortunately, already forgotten it. Even in 2007 there were a number of activities in the Republic of Slovenia that directly oppose the anti-corruption objectives of this resolution and thus create an environment that, instead of preventing it, in particular encourages and enables corruption to grow. Moreover, in autumn 2007 the Commission sent a draft law on integrity in the public sector to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, addressing perceived problems and shortcomings, both the Anti-Corruption Act and the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function, taking into account, of course, global developments in the prevention of corruption and its individual forms, that is to say, the protection of applicants for corruption, lobbying and financing of individual political parties. Part of the parliamentary groups initiated the legislative procedure, but the majority in the National Assembly, following a public debate or a hearing in October 2007, assessed that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. And if we ask ourselves who had the greatest responsibility and the largest number of seats in the National Assembly in the previous term, the answer to this question is very clear. However, a detailed analysis of the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functional Operators shows that it is systematically flawed and that, in addition to legal nonsense, it is also completely unfulfilled in practice. Also something the previous government has adopted in its previous term. All warnings about shortcomings and error of the regulation were unfortunately overlooked, suggesting the planned collapse of the established system of monitoring the property situation of Slovenian officials and all other acquisitions that we had within the Anti-Corruption Act. The Commission's abolition was also a direct consequence of the fact that despite a number of calls in 2007 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia still did not have an adopted United Nations Convention against Corruption, which was why the Commission's representatives had a number of difficulties explaining Slovenian anti-corruption positions abroad. And due to both the Commission's abolition and the neglect of the adoption of the said Convention, the Republic of Slovenia was also publicly exposed in 2007 by representatives of international organisations as a country where the fall of efforts to combat corruption after entry into the European Union was very worrying. A number of such facts are found in this report. It is also clear from this report that, despite the fact that the Commission does not have investigative powers, which is complete nonsense, because, if anything, we should, in particular to this Commission, because we are all so keenly committed to fighting corruption, give full powers and nevertheless accept a series of complaints and complaints containing signs of corruption. Even more worrying is the fact that the Commission has only worked with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and individual ministries to solve certain specific issues in a much worse and even less than in 2006. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not cooperated with the Commission to prevent the commission in the past. So much so that much has been said in today's debate about what has happened in the fight against corruption, that much has been waged against corruption and perhaps a proposal for the future: better than the fighting of words in the National Assembly and, of course, the hanging of those who are fighting corruption, let us finally give them full powers and support in their work. Only then will we, dear colleagues, be able to realistically assess the results of their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! I will start about the way my colleague Levanič looks at me: corruption has been, is and will probably be in the future, only the question is how far the police will discover it and the prosecution will continue to work. In fact, the report, which I have read in great detail, is the farthest talk on the supervision of the state commission over the assets of the officials. I find that you have given a lot of warning, issued principled opinions, which is not really much weight. In the report we received, you also state in the course of the hearing that the Commission, apart from the written warning, does not have any appropriate legal remedy to force offenders to fulfil their legal duties. I'd like to know how many proposals you've submitted to the police concerning suspicion of major crimes. We don't really need such a commission in these contexts right now. If I do a lot of caricatures, I can say that only courier service is between citizens who warn corruption and the police in charge of detecting these acts and the prosecutions below. Of the 595 applications, 21 received treatment. This raises the question of whether there is really something wrong with the police and the prosecution or whether the Republican Commission is working badly and has no sense of what to do next and what not. I think we urgently need a change of legislation that can upgrade this commission or give full powers to the police. Of course there are other options, but the fact is, these two are actually the most logical. I regret that your findings, Mr President of the Commission, are not binding on anyone. In fact, you only issue principled opinions that are taken into account or disregarded. If you allow me, I would show you this or describe with practice what your opinion means. With the presentation of the parliamentary group, it is necessary for Mr President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which I personally appreciate and know that he has done much for craftsmen, to take into account the provisions of the anti-corruption law, which provides in Article 20 that a professional official, a member of the National Assembly, must not carry out representation activities in a chamber exercising public powers. The Statute of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia provides in the first paragraph of Article 36 that the President of the Chamber shall represent and represent the Chamber and implement the conclusions of the Chamber Assembly. That provision of the Statute of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in its written opinion of 13. 2. 2009 explained as incompatible with the function of a professional official, a member of the National Assembly, since the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is considered to be one of the entities exercising public powers and a representative of which must not perform the functions of a professional official at the same time. And what happened? In order for the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to be able to act as a member of the National Assembly at the same time, it is necessary to remove the legal obstacle to the Statute of the Chamber of Commerce, namely the deletion of the powers of representation of the Chamber in legal proceedings, as proposed by amending the Statute of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This is the explanation of the board of directors of the Chamber of Commerce. Even more worrying is the phrase in the reference to a regular meeting of the Assembly, in which they state that - here I would also ask you for an answer then - regarding the Commission's written interpretation of anti-corruption, the members of the Administrative Committee in the debate were particularly critical to the opinion of this Commission, which proposes - this is very important - the deletion of the word'representation' because, in their opinion, the President of the Chamber is the person representing the interests of the members of the Chamber against power, social dialogue, abroad and so on. I ask whether in your opinion, which I have not seen, given or said that this is incompatible, whether you have suggested in your opinion that you amend the statute and that the Mr who is now a Member may continue to serve as President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. So much for what you think. It will change the status, with the amendment of the Statute it will no longer represent interests, and in my opinion the craftsmen do not need it in this place. To conclude, it is sad that, despite the doubtful conclusion that these two functions are incompatible, your opinion is not taken into account, but an emergency exit is sought in order to maintain this function. I hope you can answer me whether you wrote in your opinion that you cannot perform both functions, or whether you advised them to change their statutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Since we are talking in the National Assembly about corruption in relation to the legislative procedure, the drafting of laws and resolutions, we are virtually in no position to fully agree on anything. The Anti-Corruption Act already disturbed some because of the title, because it talked about preventing corruption, the powers of the Commission, the resolution and many things. I wonder if the Commission is really a paper tiger or a toothless tiger to prevent corruption, why it has to be shot with heavy artillery. The second question that comes to mind; it was about putting Slovenia on different scales. I agree with Mr Bogovic, Commissioner, that a little more optimism needs to be given to people. But look, on the index of human resource development, Slovenia is very highly ranked. But when you go to see one of the criteria called women's participation in decision-making, Slovenia is worse classified than some countries in sub-Saharan Africa. When talking about placement, it is always necessary to know how many entities are classified and by what criteria they are classified. I am more interested in what is stated in the report in Chapter 6 and is talking about the perception of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in relation to corruption. And this perception is that corruption is supposed to grow. But I'm talking about 2007. At the same time, I am concerned about some other information that speaks of the number of those who would be willing to report corruption because the number of such ready-made declines is increasing, and the number of those who would be very quiet in their behaviour about corruption is increasing, which is why they would be silent, very concerned: because they are afraid of revenge because they are afraid of sanctions, in short the consequences. This is said to be the ethical nature of our conduct in the crisis. Therefore, only one part of the report would be more devoted to this debate. This is the fifth chapter on the implementation of the resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. For I am one of those who advocated the thesis that the field of corruption should be reduced. This can be achieved by precisely defining what is corrupt and reducing opportunities for corruption. Here I am particularly concerned that in 2007 the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is one of the rare, even within its limited possibilities, to pursue the implementation of the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. Where were the other state authorities, the local authorities, since the actions of those of which I am now talking about were written here, more by-products of other activities, and not due to conscious compliance with or denial of its contents? Where, then, can we expect, or how can we expect to get to the point in Slovenian society that is called zero tolerance for corruption? By what means? If we consider the resolution, instead of implementing it, as a document that is otherwise written, but is valid for others, not for those who should implement it. There are quite a few cities that the Commission is talking about. See, to ensure more effective internal and external control over the implementation of regulations. If there was a problem in the previous term, the problem for power was always control. Because they tried the field of control if it was to be independent and not political control, to limit or marginalise its meaning. Sort of. Here it is also on page 14 and then on page 15 you can read what those measures or those activities were that were directly contrary to the anti-corruption objectives of the resolution. Some procedures of individual state authorities and local authorities raise doubts about the implementation of individual points of the resolution. It's big, it's written on three sides. The draft law on integrity in the public sector, which would allow for a slightly more detailed or reinforced activity to reduce the power of corruption in that country, has not been adopted. But look, the integrity law has been stopped. However, another process has been adopted in the National Assembly, which has always focused on reducing the importance, reducing the reputation, reducing or shortening the recognition of those successes that the Anti-Corruption Commission has achieved. It is known, however, that one is an opinion, and the other is what belongs to the power of law enforcement. And here one should wonder what the relationship of efficiency is between these two. This morning, I also heard a report on an anonymous phone on which citizens and citizens can report suspected tax irregularities. It's between 500 and 700 applications there. One year there were about 50 or 60 applications, next year about 130. It is said that a slow awareness of what is wrong, what needs to be pursued is strengthened. And I have not yet seen that any body, any institution, would be extremely successful right from the start. It takes time for each institution to be aware of its competences and to be informed about this institution and to be able to act better. The resolution on the prevention of corruption, which, by the way, is stated on page 19, "The Commission notes that the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia as the basic strategy for preventing and limiting this phenomenon in the country is becoming a document which, due to its origins and content, as a model for the development of its national anti-corruption strategies, is increasingly being used by other countries," in particular from South-Eastern Europe, the footnote states, "but in Slovenia, apart from individual attempts by the Commission in the direction of its implementation, only one type of unfulfilled strategic documents remains." This conclusion, however, gives me real concern. I don't care if we have different views in the National Assembly of Members and Members on individual things, even if we see in different ways what things can be done. But the fact that an authority has written in its report that a document adopted in the National Assembly is not a reality, which is of serious concern to me. I'd have a chance to react to a lot of things as replicas. When a political party boasts how good it is, how it is excluded from all corruption, let me just say one tiny anecdotes. For POP TV, Members and Members of Parliament have been asked, for their broadcasts, how much the question they sent is worth. Because I was looking hard because, as it is said in the jargon, what the price of the question was supposed to be, after I said that I had never expected of anyone, I did not require any benefit from asking the question of a Member, but it seems to me that it is a duty of a Member to respond to the problems of the environment from which I come, and also the countries as a whole, that this is a known fact that they have received as information in one of the parliamentary groups. I don't think I need a comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is not much to add to this debate that has taken place. It really bothers me, and it's the principled opinion that worries me. Because in the end, everything's fine, everything's fine, but the damage is done, and it's a great harm to both individuals and institutions. Like I said, I'm worried about those opinions. I am not against them, but I ask you to think carefully about the consequences of these opinions on individuals and institutions. In the Slovenian People's Party we have very poor experience in recent years. Otherwise, not with respect to your commission, Mr President Drago Kos, but in general. The stories are famous. The various institutions publish something, with the help of the media story persists, damage is caused, the courts eventually find that everything is in accordance with the legislation, nothing wrong, individuals, families, institutions, discredited. And that's suffering. At least that's what I imagine. And there's no compensation that can fix it. There's a little more attention here. I think that if there was more attention, this would be given, given that your commission is generally appreciated in general in the public eye, it would set a positive example for the whole of society, how it should be done in such cases, so that no unnecessary damage is caused. Dear Members and Members! Everyone in here is exposed to this. Only time is a little different, once someone's a little earlier, then another time's a little bit later, but we can get through this kind of trouble. In general, we can see that corruption is smaller in developed economies, with a large gross social product. Our goal should be that Slovenia develops successfully, that people devote themselves to work and not to strangeness. The combination of successful state development and effective control will certainly lead us to join the most successful countries, both in the economy and in preventing corruption. I would also like to say in my personal experience that I needed the help of the Commission, Dear Kos and his colleagues, and I must say that it has been highly professionally regulated. I got quality data, and I quieted those hotheads at the local level. It's just, you know, I was really afraid that I should talk about this in front of the Lithuanian public when I didn't really break anything. I wasn't reported, but I went to the committee to get an opinion, got it, and things settled. With such a work and example, you will certainly contribute greatly to a good atmosphere and will also protect some people. Because you need to know that the Commission's Institute for the Prevention of Corruption and Drago Kos many see in this sense that they are even hindering someone from even running for jobs. I brought it to them on paper, it was published, and this message went to all the congregations. And I also told all my fellow craftsmen, for God's sake, don't be afraid, as long as you work honestly and run honestly, you work; at the end of the day it's the last time to initial this commission with Dragos, and don't be afraid. I wish you a successful job and all of us that it continues to develop well and in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! In my presentation speech on behalf of the parliamentary group, I tried to cover as much as possible this framework for the 2007 report, which was delivered in due time by the State Commission under the anti-corruption law to the National Assembly by 30 May 2008. Why it took nine months for us to talk about content today is, of course, the reason in the elections, so we are late to consider the content of the report after almost 14 months. But it's not all that important. I just wanted to explain why you're moving away, why it's been so long. Because of the election. And why is there some political affiliation evident to the State Commission? Here, too, it is necessary to ask if I would like to at least illustrate why the Commission, as a state authority, allows it to be "adopted" then such a definition. A very fresh example is the case of Patrie, when the chairman of this commission himself got involved in the story, which of course is not a political wise act. Therefore, in explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, I said that the Commission, and in particular its President, should avoid such things. And then these negative opinions, which are somehow shaped by the general public, fall on this committee. When we talk about corruption, it is also appropriate that if we can classify or categorize certain corruption issues by their weight, we should also consider whether this is a matter of easier corruption or medium or large corruption. This would also be an appropriate approach. What seems most important to me, and what I also pointed out in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which in fact listens today to the findings of some political parties in the National Assembly, that the government of Janez Janša wants to abolish the so-called State Commission, despite the fact that we are dealing with a lot of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, you know, what the government of Janez Janša wanted to do in the previous mandate and what the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant, particularly, was something else than what you are seeing today. I will ask the question, and I hope that someone will "take it away" as was good to hear one of the debates: if we had a public property system like they have in England, would there then be a need for a state commission under the Anti-Corruption Act? Probably not. There's a rabbit in that bush. And I am sure that if we were to succeed and adopt such legislation, where the assets of every official, every major or minor official, would be defined as publicly available, then probably the State Commission would not have anything to do with the Anti-Corruption Act. Probably in these days, the media would not report that one of the government's members has a yacht that is older than the older type or the newer type, where he got 500,000 euros, how much such a yacht costs, I don't know, because even as a passenger on such yachts I haven't had the opportunity to drive, and it's obvious that some public officials who are also sitting in this National Assembly are dealing with such things. And I am one of the proponents for the current government, and in particular the competent ministry, to follow what was in the past when Janez Janša was led by the government to make and adopt legal frameworks where all public officials would be obliged to report their assets. And that property would be public. Why are we hiding? Why, then, a number of dilemmas, many articles in the public media, when they report and determine what property this or that official has. And in this context, I will remain within this context, with this yacht of the government member concerned, with whom the State Commission also deals, its President, when he tells the media first that this member of the government or the minister declares the property or first denies it and then says again that he has declared the property. You know, this raises a dilemma and a lack of trust in the State Commission's institute under the anti-corruption law. And not to pour everything on some former, past government that just wanted to make these things publicly available. And, of course, we would expect the efforts of the current government and coalition partners to finally do so. I hope to say that, as we can see, if positive developments have been made in England in this area, such positive practices could also be used in the creation of legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that, in this year, at least this way, the Ministry of Public Administration of the current government will deliver a proposal for a law in the State Assembly as soon as possible, I think, even in March, which we will then discuss, hold a substantive debate, give our views, our experiences, all together in order to make a positive contribution to reducing corruption and the number of such corruptions to the minimum possible extent. Of course, it's not a process for a year, it's some process that's going on, but if we avoid the political influences of those or those, then it could be something good. However, if we are to witness that those who run the commission are involved in politics, that is not good. And this leaves one mark in the eyes of the Slovenian public that corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is great, but we do not know by means of legal proposals, by adopting appropriate legislation to prevent this from happening as little as possible. And once again, I call upon all those who have taken the greatest responsibility to lead the country in this mandate to follow the goals already set by the previous government, so that all the assets of all the officials in the Republic of Slovenia will become publicly available so that people can see what they have, and then take the judgment on their own from where to tell someone so much money that they can buy either expensive yacht or prestigiously expensive cars, apartments and I don't know what else. In conclusion, the Commission, as a state authority, has to clean up certain irregularities on its own and some of the political involvements that today seal the fact that such a commission is not necessary. And we have to agree on this to a certain extent. I therefore call on everyone to come up with such legislation as soon as possible so that the assets of public officials can be made public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate just confirms that it has the greatest or maybe even the greatest responsibility, or the most it can help to make corruption as little as possible, a policy. And not just politics, especially politics. If and if the political will is present, if the political involvement of politicians is present, then the authorities, institutions which are legally and constitutionally in charge of preventing or eliminating this inequities, would be more efficient and more labour-intensive. And since your will is simply gone, and I would like to point out that we adopted the Resolution in the fight against corruption in 2004 in the National Assembly and the main problem or task of Members and Members of the National Assembly is to ensure the implementation of the guidelines and tasks set out in this resolution. In the introduction, I told you what we've been dealing with for the past four years. In particular, whether this independent expert commission is necessary or not, rather than dealing with the implementation of the tasks and guidelines set out in this resolution. Finally, only this conclusion can be drawn to the conclusion that the Commission's engagement and work to combat corruption, which is also reflected in the 2007 report, is just some kind of bad news for us politicians who have not done these tasks in the National Assembly. And I hope that the exchange of power that was last September will turn this around and that we will focus on what we need to focus on. I agree with the public about this property. But I'd like to draw your attention to something when you're talking about prestigious cars. Ten times playing golf on Mauritius with a friend or friend means one prestigious car. Will this also be recorded in this asset situation of an official or public servants, politicians and so on? Corruption is whether or not you want to admit it, especially in the domain of those who perform and perform public functions and have public money. It's in the domain here. But here comes one such short brake, an obstacle, why we do not effectively resist it. Both obstacles have a name: nepotism and clientelism. And these are two domains that are closely linked to corruption. And since this whole tissue is fraudulent, this humane tissue is deceived throughout the entire social fabric by clientelism and nepotism, then it is difficult for those who perform or perform public functions and manage this money in order that these people who have been set up in all social failings are also properly sanctioned and punished or punished to adopt such legislation when these deviant phenomena occur. Let it go from the local community and the fourth community to the government or state institutions. And here's the basic and basic point. Therefore, once again: if there is a will in politics, then these things are served as they should be. If you are not in a position to do so, these institutions, bodies and those responsible shall not carry out their work effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you. He wants a government representative? Mr. Lobnikar, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of regulating the area of systemic performance in the field of anti-corruption. As a result, it has already stated in its coalition agreement that the area of anti-corruption as a systemic process will be one of the central and important and also critical areas to be addressed. We are doing what is possible immediately, even in the budget rebalancing, we have provided the necessary resources to enable the existing anti-corruption commission to carry out its work. We immediately joined the drafting of the Law on Public Sector Integrity, which takes into account and will also take into account all the proposals that have been called in this House today and are also recorded as a decision of the National Assembly, which you will vote on. There's something else about the diary. The proposal for this law is ready. It will be debated in the coming days, first by holding a public debate, as the Government's work also provides for a 30-day deadline for as broad a public debate as possible. On this basis, we will make a new text, which will then come first to the government and then also to the National Assembly, where I hope that the things that we have heard today in the National Assembly can be upgraded by some modern legislative act which will make this area of systemic exercise with the prevention of corruption for a long time and very well regulated. This proposal will also address such things, which you have mentioned today very precisely or several times, such as the source of officials' assets, the protection of corruption proponents and other things that should also be recorded in such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the chairman of the commission, Mr. Kos? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In these five minutes, I will try to answer all the questions or at least most of them that I have been asked. But I've grouped them, so I won't go from one to the other. First, as far as the small fish are concerned. If we are talking about fish in the area of asset reporting, we strongly agree that it is really pointless for municipal councilors to report property. If you look at the proposal that we have sent to Parliament in the autumn of 2007, you will see that the municipal councilors have already been exempted from the obligation to declare property because there is really no need and no reason for the saints to do so. But if we're talking about big and small fish in the area of reporting corruption, let me put it this way, the Commission is not choosing its own work. We only work on applications. We never start any process on our own, which means we can only do what we're told. But there's one thing you need to know. Cases which we dismiss directly from the police and the prosecution without a prior principled opinion are not notified to the public on these matters for a number of reasons. For the first time, protecting the alleged innocent and the second time for leaving the police and the prosecution to do their job without interference. And believe me, if you saw those things, you'd know that things like "pure shovel" are a little joke compared to things we've already given up on the police and the prosecution. Unfortunately, the majority of these issues were indeed in the Primorska area, as was one of the issues. And I must say, quite objectively, if the legal state in Slovenia is at risk, it is at risk in the area of Primorska. In our view, and we have repeatedly pointed out that detection and prosecution bodies operate very poorly in Primorska. Of course, if nothing happens to the court, there's nothing the court can do about it. Also, legal persons mentioned today have met with all these legal entities in one way or another. For those of you who do not know that we have met with them, we have already withdrawn our observations about them either to the police or to the prosecution or to both. I must say, because of our poor experience with the police, we have changed our plight in recent years, and we have become more and more cases, and we are still doing this, we have given up on the prosecution. And our experience is to make the prosecution more specific, of course this does not apply absolutely, but compared to the work of the police, it certainly moves earlier and more concretely than the police do, which is abnormal, but it is. And most of these cases in the Primorska area too, we apologize to the Prosecutor's Office, the Southern Primorska. As regards the poor implementation of the resolution, of course this is the Commission's objective responsibility, but you should know that the resolution on the prevention of corruption provides that state authorities must report to the Commission on the implementation of the resolution. And the government hasn't done that before. In 2004 and 2005, we began to implement the resolution with former Minister Virant. Things were going very well in the beginning, things looked very promising, and then there was a decision to end the commission, and since then there was no dialogue, no contact. And of course we, just as we couldn't and can't force someone else to do anything, we couldn't even communicate with the authorities, even if there was no dialogue, or this basic dialogue with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I looked, I apologize for the poor quality of the graphs, it was not done on purpose at all, but we are simply using the technique we have at our disposal. Obviously, for the next report, at least as far as graphics are concerned, we will have to put in external production. These are graphs that we have simply copied from the contractor of this order in view of the public research, so we have not touched them at all. As far as the suspicion of selective treatment of matters is concerned, I have already said that we work solely on the basis of applications and as reports come in. When an application is made, it depends on the burden of the individual involved and so on. I strongly reject any indication of what has been said in terms of the political involvement of the Commission and of the fact that a large part of the Slovenian public does not trust the Commission and that the Slovenian public is critical to the work of the Commission. If that were the case, then 73% of respondents would not have expressed the wish that the Commission should continue to act after public research. However, in the latest public opinion survey, the percentage of these people has even increased. I must say, however, that the percentage of those who are against the functioning of the Commission coincides with the percentage of voters who elect one particular party. Of course, we deal with politics and politics, but corruption is where power is. More experience. When we started working in 2004, we spent one year working on the work of the previous government, it is called the Government in the period 2004-2008. We now estimate that this period will be shorter. The reason why the experience is, obviously, the Commission has already set up so much, and also the applications we are receiving now show that this period will be the right one year ago, now much shorter, because we are also getting a lot of applications concerning the work of the current government. And as I said before, corruption is where the government is, the government has the most power. And so will our work. Not because you'd want me to, but that's how it is. We don't issue principled opinions because we want to, but because that's what law requires. That's why, Vice President, I can continue because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u87	Time's up, Mr. President. I can't let you do this alone. Do you want it to continue? About a minute, Mr. President, to finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. As far as principle opinions are concerned. It is the right and duty of the Commission to issue a principled opinion, as set out in the law and the Rules of Procedure, which has also been endorsed by the National Assembly. The main opinions are not drawn from the air, not based on opinions as has been said. Our principled opinions are based on documentation. We really don't ask individual individuals about what happened on a case-by-case basis, because that would imply that we want to decide on their subjective responsibility, which we don't do. We decide solely on the basis of documentation. And that's our definitive conclusion. Therefore, it also states in the Rules of Procedure that our opinions have neither legal nor material consequences. I must say, it is not true that we have no legal defence against our opinions. The Commission is already involved in certain judicial proceedings, which have been initiated on the basis of the basic opinions. We even went to the Constitutional Court, which said that preventing corruption is an activity based on the Constitution itself and that the principle of opinion is a very important element in preventing corruption, of course, under certain conditions. We're trying to meet these conditions. This means, of course, that where it is possible to write a principled opinion in such a way that individuals involved in individual matters would not be identified or recognized by the authorities. Sometimes that's possible, sometimes not. For example, yesterday's principled opinion on the President's flight would certainly be pointless to write by writing a national authority, but if we all know that we have only one President of the Republic and that there was only one such case when they flew to Bosnia and Herzegovina. But in most cases, if you look at it, you won't find the names and not the names of the organs. And for us, that's where the process ends. In some cases, we find grounds for suspicion of a criminal service, and then we leave the matter to the police or the prosecution. Believe me, our biggest frustration is this, because sometimes we know in the future that nothing will be done about this. But that does not mean that people are wrong or that our findings are wrong. The wrong position is that it is only corruption, as determined by the court in criminal proceedings with a court of law. It's a watch that was obsolete 10 years ago. There are other types of responsibilities in this country, such as criminal liability. And we're not even looking for responsibility. We're just comparing the actual situation to the situation we've identified.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thanks for the explanation. This concludes the debate. The decision will be decided on Thursday, 4 March 2009, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, to be led by Mr Klavor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u90	We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is an exploratory proposal for a conclusion on the point of drawing on European funds in Slovenia. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development presented the material to the assembly for consideration and proposed the adoption of a decision. I give the floor to the President, Mr Willi Trofenik, for an additional explanation of the material under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! At its 1st meeting on 22 January and 2nd February, on 4 and 11 February, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development took note of the information or material provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional development, which is the address of the European Fund Drawing in Slovenia, which it prepared in January 2009. The reason for the broader consideration of this issue at the meeting of the Committee was the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia - EU funds in the final accounts of the State budget, which the Court of Auditors sent to the National Assembly in December last year and in which it found that the European budget payments in 2007 exceeded the funds received from the European budget by EUR 8.7 million. In addition, the Committee took note of the Court of Auditors' findings on the inadequate planning of European funds, as also pointed out by the European Commission, as it estimated that the error in the 2007 forecast in Slovenia amounted to 101% and is the largest among all Member States, as well as the findings on inadequate recording, both in the European budget and in the European budget. The Committee also received a reply from the Government at the request of Members, members of the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Supervision, with annexes. Representatives of the Government took note of the key challenges in implementing the cohesion policy for the programming period 2004/2006 and the first two years of the programming period 2007/2013 and of possible solutions, development priorities and priorities, guidance in the new programming period 2007/2013 in the area of three main operational programmes: strengthening regional development potentials, developing human resources and environmental and transport infrastructure. Given that the European Cohesion Policy represents about a third of the budget of the European Union, it is important that the latest data from the Government's Structural Funds Drawing Service in the 2004/2006 period, dated 31. Last year's 12th year shows that the allocations have been made, the funds signed contracts and payments from the state budget for all funds above 100%, and the difficulties in implementing individual programmes delay the transmission of claims for reimbursement. In the debate itself at the Committee's meeting, it was particularly stressed that, in the acute conditions of the economic crisis in which we are located, it is very important that European cohesion policy funds are spent on projects that will create the greatest added value. In order not to face a similar situation in the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as stated by the Court of Auditors in its 2007 budget report, it would make sense that, given that the content and the financial resources are quite fragmented across individual ministries, the individual government departments would review all approved projects or contracts and their implementation for implementation or assess the reality of their implementation. Wherever commitments have been made and contracts have not yet been concluded, we should assess whether these projects are indeed the ones that can contribute most to economic development in today's crisis situation. The discussion also highlighted the individual shortcomings of the Government's material, in particular the fact that it was not possible to complete the data in the material, whether there was insufficient or sufficient funding from time to time and whether Slovenia had contributed more to the European treasury than it had received from it. Most of the discussers were of the opinion that they should have come up with real data on the absorption of funds in both periods of financial perspectives and that they should have checked whether there had been an outflow of funds also on the basis of funding for projects that had not been signed or financed beyond the criteria. It should also be analysed whether the allocation of funds takes account of equitable regional development and of the set objectives and priorities. In this context, we should also answer the current question of how much approved projects are prepared in terms of regional incentives in accordance with the existing regional programmes. It is also not clear from the material why many projects have not been implemented, particularly in the field of railway infrastructure. It has been estimated that the biggest challenge for the Government over the next period is to draw up funds in the field of transport and environmental infrastructure, since the programme was approved only at the end of 2007 and only 63% of the funds have been awarded in relation to spending rights for 2007 and 2008. On the other hand, the opposition’s view that possible change in development priorities within the financial perspective 2007/2013 and revisions of the decisions and signed contracts issued in terms of project feasibility and consistency with the regional development programmes in force, as well as possible changes in the policy mechanisms to be implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the financial perspective 2007/2013, was jeopardised by the timely absorption of those funds. Fear was expressed that one to two years could run into the void. Therefore, at the level of successful use of European funds during the 2007/2013 financial perspective, it is the view of its members that measures that will not interfere in the past period but, above all, accelerate investment in those areas that can contribute significantly to faster economic development and thus faster economic growth in the future should be adopted. On the basis of the information provided by the Government and the Court of Auditors' report and the debate, the Committee proposed to the National Assembly that it adopt the proposed decision, thereby providing opportunities for more efficient European funds to be drawn up in the coming years of the financial perspective 2007/2013, following the development objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in tight financial and economic conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In the meantime, there's been a minor technical problem with the screen, so allow me a minute or two to wait for them to edit the screen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u93	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ma'am mag. Zlata Plosteiner, Minister without a Resource, responsible for local self-government and regional policy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u94	Good-bye to the high choir! As the initiator has already said, the subject has already been discussed on the committee. The Committee was also presented with a material that would not be summarized today. I would like to point out that European cohesion policy is one of the most important policies of the European Union, which is truly intended for a third of the budget, and represents a strong financial incentive to the development efforts of individual countries, of course Slovenia. Therefore, their successful and efficient consumption is extremely important in terms of achieving the stated development objectives defined in individual country programming documents. In the current period when we are facing a financial and economic crisis, however, these funds are also of exceptional importance in addressing the problems caused by the crisis, as they can be an important source of funding for crisis management measures and the promotion of the new development cycle. That is why I think it is right that this High Council also realizes that it is extremely important that the successful implementation of cohesion policy is our common objective, because we are therefore pursuing the common objectives defined by this country. The fact is that Slovenia has not lost the euro or even the tolar of this policy so far, but of course this assumes that we will successfully complete the drawdown for the period 2004-2006 and that we will also successfully implement the drawdown for the period 2007-2013. Drawing under the single programming document 2004-2006 is currently around 60%, while in the cohesion fund area for this period it is approximately 60%. This means that in the half-year period until 1 June 2009, when the extended drawdown for the single programming document and for the cohesion fund by 2010, we have to do the remaining work. At the same time, it must also be recognised and said that the activities under the new cohesion or current financial perspectives have been leaked, are running, a number of funds have already been allocated. Of course, there is a very different internal dynamic of these calls, where a more detailed analysis, which you also have at your disposal, shows that there have been calls in certain priority directions, that funds have been engaged and that nothing has been done on some of them. This raises the question of whether we are actually succeeding in achieving our development goals, which we have set here. The problem that has also been highlighted by the Court of Auditors is the problem of pay and pay-offs, and this is the problem that is, in fact, our internal problem, which shows that the system is too complex and complex and, on the other hand, pre-optimistic planning, as indicators that we can monitor at the level of financial realisation show that they have been highly pre-optimistic. For 2008, we managed to realise only 12% of the Structural Funds and approximately 69% of the Cohesion Fund. It would also point out what we see as a problem and what we are paying special attention to, the preparation of large projects, because in this area we have managed to allocate only about 10% of the funds. Big projects are extremely difficult. It would be very useful if we were already ready and now the Government is making an extraordinary effort to prepare these big projects, which are also major inflows. During this period of three months, the government has also paid attention to the publication of various calls for proposals, in particular to accelerate those aimed at resolving the crisis. Thus, a number of calls have been published during this time for an area that supports these measures - which I think I will have the opportunity to explain also below - and has embarked on an active process of simplifying procedures and optimizing the pumping system, because this is the precondition that will then enable us to work even more successfully in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! A review of our success in drawing on funds can be summed up in one sentence: we have not spent the guaranteed, but we are getting better. That's a fact. And if we look at what others say about us, who look closely at us, we can see that we are not as good as we can write in the report. She is also a Minister who, by the way, would correct it if Mr Willi Trofenik was not an introductory speaker, but was Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. So for the second time, I believe, it'll be better. Ensuring that we are, in fact, somehow quite successful at this, of course, is not exactly a fact. Slovenia has been a net recipient of funds since its accession to the EU. Today it's not anymore, we know that. For the first two years, it was very bad at drawing on European funds. She didn't pump anything for the first year. The first year was the pin, the second slightly better, the third year the dynamic is growing, and now we can figure out that it accounted for 60% there. The Slovenian national party has constantly warned the Slovenian government, this and, of course, the previous, that it is wrong to act so irresponsiblely in drawing on these funds, because it has been stuck many times precisely where we would expect the greatest expediency and the greatest cooperation. It's in the Ministry. We know that the tendering conditions sometimes need to be drawn up, not just by one ministry, but by another, the third ministry has to give its consent. And I believe that if there is an incentive, for example in the field of transport, the Minister of Transport, that this could be stuck with the Minister of Environment or possibly, the former Minister of Transport is nodding me - so I am right. And in the end, it all fell apart, and for the funds we wiped out under our noses. This also indicates a lack of serious work within the government’s headquarters. In the Slovenian National Party, we have also taken the initiative of the Government on 17 June 2005 to make an interdepartmental interdepartmental coordinating body to ensure that this documentation is carefully prepared and in time, and that it can also effectively apply to Slovenia on tender terms in due time. And none of this happened. Dear Minister, in your instruction, you might be better off now. We continue to insist that this consultative body should be and, of course, this consultative body could be made up of experts and would be concerned about the expediency, accuracy and consistency of state bureaucracy, which is such as, sometimes, irresponsible and even insufficiently effective. The third point we would like to draw attention to, however, is that we have lost quite a bit of money because of not providing the budget for participation in the funds already approved. And one such example is that we have three times pointed out that we will lose 5.5 million in the Koper-Divač double-track project if we do not guarantee participation. Five times the Ministry's initiative has taken place, and I believe that we will finally have to return these funds. Today, we are listening to Mr Patrick Vlačič to lose 500 million euros from updating the rail system and thus to primate over the fifth trans-European corridor. That is what Mr Minister has recently said, the situation in the railway area. The fact is, if this happens, it is a national disgrace and that again, ladies and gentlemen, no one will be responsible for this. Nobody. Of course, I wonder if we can identify such a shamparija and thus the irresponsibility of individuals, whether it is in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia to maintain this situation. Today, we are net contributors to the European budget, we give 60 million euros for my known information; we missed the train when we could receive. And we have quite a few areas open that could give us a more thorough approach to drawing on these funds. The third group that I would like to draw attention to, however, is left to the congregations, which are often in want of heart. I believe that some congregations have organized themselves by making a consultative body or perhaps some kind of office. In the municipality of Sežana, we have an ORO, which is a shortcut to assisting all those who would like to join the calls for European funds, to prepare documentation and others. However, I believe that small congregations do not have this option and that they do not find themselves in such a way or that they do not pay sufficient attention to this opportunity offered. And here again, the State, the appropriate Ministry, should ensure that the municipalities have a certain support. We didn't do it either. And I believe that if this does not happen in the future, we will miss these opportunities, the distinguished minister we have. In this way, I expect the Ministry, as the highest national authority in this area, to offer appropriate support, including legal, formal assistance, but also, of course, the assistance needed in all these preparations, because we know that the tender documentation for a given area can sometimes be high in a folded paper column. These are the requirements of the European Union, the very difficult procedures for reporting. And as we speak, the report likes to read the written sentences and now praise one another to the Government that it was good, but to find out the contrary, or the ministers themselves are meeting to lose what has already been approved, then it is a misalignment of the data to the public. At times, however, you may also need to take a look at the daily press. And for that, it's the appropriate material that you can find in the newspaper of Finance, which is what they think is the most professionally involved in. When I was browsing the Internet about this, there was another story written there. In this way, in the Slovenian National Party, the conclusions that are prepared today will be supported or not supported by each party in their own conscience. But I do know that in this area, there is a great deal of greed, and it will be up to you, your esteemed minister, to decide whether or not you will remove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, well-respected minister with co-workers and respectable colleagues. European cohesion policy is one of the most important policies of the European Union. It represents about a third of the budget of the European Union and, as we know, aims to reduce the differences between the most and least developed in this group. In the SLS Group, we believe that European cohesion policy is very important for Slovenia, because if we look around, we see that there is no longer a municipality or a larger place where at least one of the projects would not be implemented, co-financed by the European Union. The reasons for the broader consideration of this topic at the meeting of the Committee and today's meeting of the National Assembly were the revision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the SLS believe that the Court of Auditors has excluded only one narrow cut from the whole event. When we talk about cohesion policy, we are talking about multi-annual planning and it is reasonable to keep track of things over a longer period of time. All those who have ever dealt with projects - here we are quite a few of them - we know that, from the time the project comes, until you finally get the funding and not until the first payment stream, years pass. So the financial flow is the last thing that happens to all things, and a lot of things have to be done before that. In the SLS Group, we believe that it is wrong to have different interpretations in the public all the time and to believe that everything is wrong with the use of European funds in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not true, at least as far as the old financial perspective is concerned, which has not yet been fully completed, but according to our conduct, at a time when Minister Žagar was responsible, we have practically exhausted all the funds. While there have been problems, a number of arrangements have been made, and they have also been remedied in agreement and cooperation with the European Commission. Finally, the European Commission has often used the Republic of Slovenia as a positive reference. During the 2004-2006 programming period, Slovenia was, according to the European Commission, one of the most successful Member States to draw funds. In the area of the European Regional Development Fund, 95% of the funds are spent, which can be said to be almost the maximum amount of spending before the completion of the aid for the past period. Further information is that in the area of agriculture, fisheries were used around 90%, in the area of the European Social Fund 78%, and in the area of the Cohesion Fund around 60% of the funds. However, all of this means the power to spend by the end of 2010 and many of the projects from this perspective are still under way. It also seems important to us in the SLS Group that Slovenia signed a trust agreement with the European Commission in February 2008 for the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, which, on the basis of the quality work found, brings greater powers of control over the domestic institution. We believe that this has given Slovenia an important recognition that it has the appropriate control mechanisms exposed to it in drawing funds from EU funds. In the new financial perspective 2007-2013, cohesion policy is implemented through three funds, the European Regional Development Fund, the Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. In the SLS Group, we are pleased to have negotiated €4.2 billion in cohesion policy over the period 2007-2013, which means an approximately 3.5-fold increase compared to the previous period. As far as we know, we carried out all the necessary procedures as soon as possible among the first ones immediately after the conclusion of the negotiations with the European Commission in operational programmes, which ended in August and November 2007, and it also joined the call for funds, so that at the end of 2008, about 1.5 billion of these funds were already on call. We are pleased that some projects are already completed or many are already being concluded and that payments are being intensively implemented, which means that in many cases activities are at the last stage of the European resource drawdown process. In the SLS Group, we are aware that pumping means much more than the naked implementation of the budget. As I have already mentioned, the successful use of the funds of the new programming period is also seen in the view of Slovenia, where today there is virtually no more municipality where it would not be a table on which the Project is co-financed by the EU. Let me stress that Slovenia had a cumulative net position towards the European Union of around €6 million at the end of October 2008. As a result of the successful negotiations 2007-2013, Slovenia's net positive position is around 240 million euros. Over the whole period, Slovenia has received more EU funding than it has invested in the budget. In our opinion, Slovenia does not face any loss of funds in the current implementation of the new financial perspective until 2010 at least. In view of all the above, we cannot say in any way that Slovenia is unsuccessful and inefficient in drawing on EU funds. In the SLS Group, we believe that discussions on the poor use of European funds are misleading and unrealistic. Such irresponsible interpretations in the public are causing great harm both in the domestic environment, which is detrimental to potential consumers and in the wider European area. Of course, we also agree that the rule is to continue to monitor closely the system of European funds drawback, overcoming these shortcomings, improving the system and simplifying administrative procedures, as the weaknesses of the system and possible problems have certainly been demonstrated during this period. There is something else I would like to point out in the SLS Group that we believe that one of the biggest problems is that we do not have landscapes in Slovenia and, as a result, landscape thinking. The landscapes could play an important role in many ways as an integrator of projects, which would result in fewer projects, but they would be those that would probably contribute more to the development of Slovenia in the long run. The reasons why we don't have them are familiar. In the SLS Group, we hope that European funding will be as effective as possible in the future. I hope that this is also what today's debate is about, and that a new call for European funds will finally be published again, and we will make it easier to cope with times of crisis through the successful implementation of cohesion policy. In the SLS Group, we have decided to support the amendments prepared by the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u100	Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we have received the material we received for today's agenda item, the drawing of European funds has been well reviewed, and we have come to the quick conclusion that it is a matter of showing double data, namely, the Court of Auditors shows one data and the other government report, so it is difficult to assess how we have been successful in drawing funds and how we are ready to pump. At the LDS, we estimate that we were not successful enough in 2000, as the Court of Auditors' data also show. We therefore propose to the competent government services to draw up regulations and legislation so that in the future, all funds can be drawn up in accordance with previously known calls and rules that will be the same for all who will apply for tenders and thus help to strengthen the economy and to develop the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in full. We will therefore support the conclusions of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, but not the conclusions of the SDS or the amendments, because in this case this is the same procedure as the adoption of the accounts for 2007 and I hope that we will not vote twice on this point, as well as on the final account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u102	Nicely greeted! Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister! I represent the position of the Group of Social Democrats. In the harsh conditions of the economic crisis in which we are located - not only Slovenia, but also the other countries - it is very important that European cohesion and structural policy funds are used in a useful way in the way that they are allocated to projects that will create the greatest added value in the current acute situation. Unfortunately, however, the use of European funds is not as planned. The implementation of EU funds received in the 2007 state budget shows that Slovenia was even less successful in drawing on EU funds than in 2006, although in 2005 Slovenia was not successful in delivering EU funds because only 62.52% of the projected €483 million or €181 million less or 0.66% less of the gross social product. In 2006, only 77% of the planned European Union funds were absorbed by the Republic of Slovenia. In 2007, however, the revenue generated from the European Union's funds was 40% lower and 234 million lower than the planned budget. That is why the Republic was a net payer - we all know what a net payer means - based on the flows of the state budget. The poor absorption of European Union funds in 2007 is also due to the fact that the previous government only forwarded the national strategic framework 2007-2013, the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013, the operational programme to develop human resources for this period and the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013. It was only on 16 February 2007 that the government forwarded those documents to the European Union, while that period had already taken place. In the area of cohesion policy, only 31.69% were realized in 2007, but this is not the worst since less than 25% of the funds received for structural policy were realised. The Court of Auditors found that such a small realisation in the area of structural funds is not only due to drawing dynamics but also due to inadequate planning based on unrealistic items. We were also reminded of the inadequate planning of the Republic of Slovenia's payments by the European Commission. However, the worst drawback from the European Union in 2008 was that Slovenia managed to absorb only 46.38% of the planned funds in the state budget. As a result, on the basis of the net situation of the State budget of the European Union, the net remuneration was even greater in 2008 than it was in 2007, because the State had allocated 64.7 million euros more to the European Union budget than it had received from it. As a result, the European Union's project procedures will need to be adapted in 2009, which means that the problems of poor absorption of the European Union's resources will not be resolved until this year, although drawdown dynamics have been poor since 2005. As a result, we can also expect poor funding from the European Union in 2009, which will not have the best impact on economic growth. It is necessary to make a full analysis of the signed priorities of the former government, as an analysis of the costs and benefits and macroeconomic effects of both economic growth and employment is necessary to choose which of these projects are good for the economic development of the country and which were possibly signed only because of political preferences. Let me say that this has been discussed on the local self-government committee itself. We note that large projects have not been prepared, as there have been many small projects, which are more expensive from the point of view of project preparation than the larger project. Perhaps, however, Ireland could set an example for us, which in this way, through a large project, has done so much in the area of infrastructure throughout the country. However, it is important to take a serious warning from the Court of Auditors, because there is in fact no institution in Slovenia that fully monitors the data on the European budget inflows. As a result, it is difficult to analyse thoroughly the issue of the European Union's use of funds for the whole of Slovenia. I reiterate that the situation in the area of European funds drawback in 2008 is even worse than in 2007. Members of the Social Democrats Group have therefore already supported the conclusions proposed on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which aim to improve the system of European funds. I must say that there was no disagreement at the time on this proposal for a decision. At the same time, it seems important to us that the government prepares a report on why such a gap has occurred in the data on the European funds planned and received. We also think it is important that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare an evaluation of the development priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the relevant programming documents. This is important because Slovenia today is under difficult conditions of economic crisis and because of the more efficient use of European funds in these conditions. For all this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the draft conclusions of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Unfortunately, at this point, we cannot agree with the Members of the Group of Social Democrats and we will reject the amendments to the decision tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and all the others present! Allow me to start by saying a few words on the procedure for addressing this point or on the procedural manoeuvre afforded by the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups in addressing this issue, which initially requested the convening of an urgent meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, in conjunction with the Court of Auditors' audit report on this subject or 2007 which, by the way, is not yet definitive, the deadline for the response report has expired in those days. The Court of Auditors’ recommendations, however, focus mainly on or better monitoring, recording and better administration of projects in the field of the use of European funds. The procedural manoeuvre was afforded by these parliamentary groups after this meeting of the Commission for the Supervision of Public Finance was convened and also held in the first part of 12 January, following the convening of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, chaired by Mr Trofenik of Zares, which also concluded this hearing after several interruptions. The material we received in the meantime by the new government, namely, the findings on which you based the call for an extraordinary meeting, derogates, destroys, and creates a major problem. For government data shows a completely different picture than you have, respected, from the pre-election period forward in the public. When you paint a catastrophic picture in this area and deceive the public, you will find that Slovenia is unsuccessful in drawing on European funds. You're being defamed by the data, and that's why you had to get this thing into other waters. There is neither a report from the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, which is the only one responsible for addressing this subject in conjunction with the Court of Auditors' report, nor the conclusions that have been adopted - nothing, although we have addressed this subject extensively at two meetings, on 12 January and 26 February. So what was the real purpose of the applicants, the Social Democrats, the Real and the LDS, in this matter? The purpose was, as I said at the outset, to confirm what you said before the elections, but unfortunately, you were denied information. On the other hand, to create a favourable position when projects that have been implemented and which have been announced in these two previous years, 2007 and 2008 have also started to be financially implemented and when these payments are shown somewhere in some 2009 budget, 2010 and so on. Because we know what's going on with these projects. First, there must be an invitation to tender, then this invitation to tender must be submitted, a decision must be obtained and only then will the project go into effect. These are projects that last for several years and only at the end of the day when everything is paid can those who have succeeded get the funds refunded. This period is thus such that the effects of what started in 2007, 2008 will be visible in 2009, 2010 and so on. Not only was Slovenia successful in the first year of the new financial perspective, it could be considered as the first year of 2008 because we know how administrations at EU level have been, has been proven and recorded among the most successful new members. Therefore, it is necessary to be realistic and honest in analysing this. It was the first year of the new financial perspective, for a period when programmes at European Commission level had just been confirmed. The latter were not confirmed until the end of 2007. In this light it is necessary to look at the picture. However, if we want to talk first about whether we have been successful enough or not to spend what has been negotiated for this period, first of all we need to say a few words about what is actually the basis for the large funds that we have available from 2007 to 2013, we are talking about over four billion funds and how these funds have actually been negotiated. How did Slovenia get the most comparable assets in its history from this title during this period? You will recall that the situation in 2005 was not so simple. So in the year when the new financial perspective was negotiated. On the other hand, we developed very quickly. We went over 75% of the development threshold. And if the perspective hadn't been completed by 2005, remember, we'd have a very big problem, how much to get out of these funds, and in what way. For this reason, you know that there was also administrative division in the option: Slovenia in two development regions, which would enable us to draw on these funds as effectively as possible in the case of failed negotiations. The former government has been very active and effective at these points, and also reasonable, I must say, despite the fact that the then MEP is a magician. Milan M. Cwickl, who now sits on the left side of Pahoreva as Secretary-General of the Government, even publicly mutilated the then President of the Government of Mr Janez Janša, who said that he had gone into negotiations while they were negotiating under the Luxembourg Presidency in June 2005, would rather sleep, as he said, rather than join the new members who voluntarily gave up 10% of the cohesion funds. It was a very thoughtful move. It turned out to be good when a real assessment was found that Luxembourg's proposal would not succeed because the opposition between Great Britain and France was too successful the proposal under the English Presidency in December 2005 and Slovenia was the only one of these new countries that did not give up 10% at the time and did not lose them as a result. In short, the 2007-2013 perspective, the negotiations in this direction have been successfully completed and if you would hold this thesis, which you are suggesting that the funds have been underutilized - something more beautiful! During this period behind us, you said that everything is overheating, that the economy is overheated, that these funds are too much, so faster use of this syntagma would be even worse than it has already been. It's better that you have one large reserve here now, if you think it is, for the period ahead of us. I'll keep saying it's not like that. Because, on the one hand, we have done everything in this past period that this framework for the period 2007-2009 has been used or signed as much as possible, and on the other hand, we see that your ambitions for this year with the 2009 budget rebalancing are catastrophic, catastrophic. While you convince the public how to increase the use of these funds, you reduce them by rebalancing. Now perhaps one more word, two more, regarding the period of the previous financial perspective 2004-2006 - I do not think there is a need to lose words about this period. Everything has been done to bring this period to a successful conclusion or to a successful conclusion in the coming months. All the funds allocated to Slovenia will be spent, and even more because more than is available has been distributed, precisely because it was calculated that any of the projects will not be successfully completed. The 2007-2023 timeline and the information which is important, because in 2007 as well as in another large part of 2008 there can be no liquidity use of these funds, is as follows. The European Commission's national strategic reference framework was approved on 18 June 2007. The first two operational programmes to strengthen regional development potentials and environmental and transport infrastructures -27 August 2007 and the last, November 2007, 21 November operational programme for the development of human resources. This is the framework from which we must proceed. Only when these programmes were approved could tenders be opened. Nevertheless, we can find out and this comes from the material we have in our maps, from a billion seven hundred nine million and several thousand euros in the area of strengthening regional development potentials, 678 million in the first year or 112.6% in terms of spending rights 2007-2008. The ministry you've criticised most, led by Dr. Zhagar most successfully. Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources - available for the whole period up to 2013 €755,699,371 which was awarded 205 million in the first year or 83% in relation to spending rights 2007 and 2008. And environmental and transport infrastructure development: €635,599,744 available, with 157 million or 63.5% in relation to spending rights 2007-2008. In doing so, it must be said that funds which will not be used during this period will not be set aside because the perspective is long by 2013. In total, a billion 200 million of the good 4 billion available by 2013. So, if there was more to be said, we'd be even more "smokers." Because investment activity would accelerate even more. I think that this was not the intention either; it was intended to effectively support those projects that had already been designed somewhere and which had already run from a previous financial perspective, and to start new ones proving investments throughout our country. There is no congregation in which anything would happen from these funds. So what do we have now? The problem is not the activities of the previous government. The problem is the inactiveness of the current government. Do we have any current calls? Do we have any news? Anything fresh? Everybody's waiting. The municipalities are waiting. There's no telling when there's gonna be a call. It's all open. With all the bases created. Nothing needs to be confirmed on the European Commission, nothing needs to be further negotiated, only work needs to be started and investment bases created. Now so much more than when economic activity was high; and we have warned about it. It is about investing in railways, motorways, broadband networks, energy projects, renewable energy sources. In short, to all those areas that are, as we speak or as you now speak, since you have been in power, our development potential and which are an important contribution to increasing economic growth. It is also a matter of investment in areas where Slovenia is malnourished and where it will have to speed up investment if it is to develop faster in the coming years. Let me have a word with you about project administration. We agree here that things need to be improved. We have no different opinions on this. Many things that have been designed in the past need to be improved, easier access to these resources must be made possible, and we will certainly have a lot of work to do in this area, and we will fully support you in this regard. And what happens to the balance now? The 2009 balance even reduces funds from the European Union. Given the situation in which we are, it would be reasonable to expect that these funds would at least double, especially on those programmes or sub-programmes where we still have reserves. That is why we have also proposed amendments or different conclusions as proposed. After looking at the 2009 budget balance we have been familiar with today, we are convinced that this proposal is all the more justified. At a time of high economic growth, the former government had planned eighty-six hundred and seventy-seven thousand Euros during the period when the incentives in this area were not needed, a rebalancing of eighty-six hundred and seventy-seven thousand Euros, a rebalancing that you have invested in the procedure, reducing to eighty-three hundred and seventy-five thousand Euros, or over thirteen million Euros. But what is even more important and more significant is that, on the other hand, payments to the European budget are increasing by almost €30 million - from 300 to ninety-nine to four hundred and twenty-five million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not support the proposed measures by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development because they are more concerned with the period behind us than with the period ahead. We're missing new calls, new opportunities for the economy, none of them. For this reason, we have amended this proposal in a direction that would make it possible to make even more effective use of the resources of the European Union, and I suggest that you also support us at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. The reason for the debate on the issue of drawing on European funds and the inclusion of this issue in the plenary session of the National Assembly is the Audit Report of the Court of Auditors on EU funds in the final accounts of the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007, by which the Court of Auditors wanted to answer the only question on the transparency of the presentation of the funds received and paid in the European budget. It has neither set itself the objective of measuring efficiency nor establishing prudence, which will be absolutely necessary in the future - so much for understanding. In the Republic of Slovenia, we do not yet have a systematic and comprehensive system of monitoring data on inflows and outflows to the European budget and comprehensive information on European funds to assess the situation, policy management and possible actions. In reviewing the final accounts of the State budget for 2007, the Court of Auditors has indisputably found that the final accounts of the State budget show the amounts paid into the European budget and the funds received, but their consumption is imprudent as it is dispersed within the direct budget consumers. Thus, three hundred and sixty-six million euros were paid in 2007 or 23% more than a year earlier in the European budget, and three hundred and seventy million euros were received in absolute numbers less than a year earlier in 2006. Thus, in 2007, €8.7 million was paid over the European budget inflows to the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia or we are talking about the negative position of the state budget in terms of the European budget. In addition to this, the Court of Auditors notes in its report that only 60 % of the planned revenue from the European budget was realised in 2007 and this is the problem, as only EUR 347 million was realised from the planned 582 million. On the inside, there has been a particularly poor realisation in the area of structural funds, which did not exceed 25%, I stress, from the planned level. By the way, the situation in last year 2008 is even worse; the drop of EUR 420 million from the planned majority and the net state budget position is minus EUR 64 million. The data of the State budget accounts do not provide a comprehensive response to the net situation of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, the Court of Auditors calculated, using data from the European Commission, not from domestic institutions, two additional net positions of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the net position of the Republic of Slovenia without beneficiaries of the extra-state budget, which was positive during the year under consideration, which was plus EUR 6.5 million, and the net position of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole, which was also positive and amounted to EUR 31.3 million. Since 2007 is the first year of the new financial perspective, when it was possible to draw funds from the two programming periods, this is from the period 2004-2006 and from the period 2007-2013, but the funds received are not presented separately in the final accounts of the State budget, which is why there is no direct indication of implementation in the two programming periods mentioned above. The fact is that in 2007 only 8% of the new financial perspective was good. Eight percent! According to the Court of Auditors, there are no duly recorded revenue from the European budget, from the financial perspective 2007-2013, nor from the payment of funds to the European budget. In short, following the Court of Auditors’ conclusion, the State budget accounts do not provide adequate information on all payments received to the Republic of Slovenia, including those paid directly by the European Commission to beneficiaries in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the Court of Auditors’ report on the issue of European funds drawback, the Government has submitted a report on the drawing-up of European funds and the Government’s response to the written request of the members of the Commission of the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances for the submission of data on European funds and the chronology of all necessary activities regarding the preparation of projects and the drawing-up of the Structural Funds for the financial period 2004-2006 and 2007-2013. Unfortunately, extensive additional materials are not adequately processed and do not provide answers to some open questions, such as: the reasons for undisputed poor pumping, the reasons for poor planning, the coherence between approved projects and existing regional development programmes, the feasibility of projects, the effectiveness and effectiveness of European spending, the potential allocations of projects or unsolicited funds, the issue of ensuring own participation, the added value of European funds received; and some other questions could be raised. The successful use of European funds should not be directed at itself, but must be a means to achieve more coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia. If we want to effectively draw on the available European funds to achieve the objective of coherent regional development of Slovenia, we will also have to answer these questions, and we will therefore support the decision presented by the mother labour body in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u108	Madam Minister, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! The DeSUS Group fully supports the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In addition, we believe in the Group of Members that it is the right time to put in a wider debate the drawing of European funds for deductions 2004-2006 and for the new financial perspective 2007-2013. Of course, in this debate, we are deeply concerned about the fact that we currently have different data, which are the results of research or analysis that differs from one another. These data do not give us a full answer today to citizens and citizens whether the State of Slovenia has been a net payer or net payee in this rejection of European funds. It is important that this debate on the drawing-up of European funds on the programme now that we know that drawing on European funds has already helped to generate new jobs, to generate the development of the Republic of Slovenia, and now that we are in this financial economic situation, in which we still need a strong support to accelerate the development of our country. It is important that, at this point, it is made and a cut is made to draw European funds by this period and from this period forward, in order to establish this efficiency, efficiency and to find all those challenges and problems that have somehow affected the reduced strength and reduced efficiency of European funds. Of course, over the past period, we must say that Slovenia has absorbed a lot of these resources, but there are, of course, anomalies that need to be removed in order to make the pumping more efficient and even better. At least as important as pumping and the level of resources in the current period, it is also important for the DeSUS Group that the Government from now on make a review of development priorities so that the Government and the ministries of resources can determine whether all of these planned priorities are correct or still maintain them under these new conditions, whether these are the priorities that our country will raise in terms of technological development and economic growth. For the DeSUS Group, it is of great importance that the concluded contracts for drawing funds from European resources be reviewed in this section in order to determine the feasibility and eligibility of all these projects already under way. Are these really projects that generate new jobs and generate our development? Of course, this complete debate will be accepted and accepted by the DeSUS Group as an opportunity and an opportunity to somehow remove all obstacles on this path in order to be more effective in the next period than we have been or even more effectively. Many times in the debate, it is mentioned that calls are unprofessionally or professionally prepared so that they are very complicated and that if we simply divide them into those who apply for these calls, and we can share them in these local communities of the local environment and those who apply for tenders in the wider social and national interest, then we can say that these calls are so complicated that simply smaller municipalities that do not have professional staff and knowledge are not capable of such applications. We have repeatedly pointed out that ministries should help these smaller municipalities and change calls to make them easier. We therefore believe that these calls should be made immediately, and public calls for proposals for this year must be made immediately. Let the calls not take more than 30 days to ensure that the decisions of the ministries do not last more than 30 days, that co-financing is mainly where the underdeveloped areas or municipalities at risk are at a higher rate than has been described so far. Let financial resources and financial flows be made available and placed in such a way that some municipalities will not be plunged into liquidity content problems, because they themselves have to invest money and then expect money returned from ministries in the final realization. We know that all these projects need intersectoral coordination. Such a relationship between ministries must be taken into account in a consistent manner. And when it comes to putting a project into space, it is known that the other ministries are also involved. It is not clear to us that, when it comes to calls for state projects concerning the road network, transport concerning railways, which also concern major environmental projects, so that things take place there slowly. There is probably no reason to wait here, but the invitation to tender can be made immediately and these funds can be used immediately. We are of the opinion that a uniform system of traceability of European funds and also of reporting should be established for a single presentation and a uniform interpretation from the beginning, so that we know at any moment what we are, whether we are net recipients or net payers. Of course, in the end and not least, the evaluation effects are necessary to draw on these funds. It is to be known whether these funds went for the right purpose, whether they produced added value, whether they produced economic growth, or whether they were spent and spent on something insignificant. So, let me finish. The DeSUS Group will fully support all the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the whole of the material and the proposal for a decision. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the final report, the Court of Auditors shall state the same findings as in the draft report. Of course, opinions were shared at all times in the debates, so that it is only reasonable to rely on the Court of Auditors’ views. The decisions adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for the period 2004-2006 and 2007-2013 are in some ways encouraging, as it is concluded that the use of European funds has been appropriate. The calls for European funds to draw on the dynamics that have been set in motion give some hope that politics will be unified in this segment. Slovenia has the right to draw €5 billion from the European Treasury in 2015. Actually, it's our money. Good projects with high added value need to be prepared, and money must not be spent for purposes that promote only public consumption. The report also shows that drawdown dynamics in the European Union Member States increased in 2007, while the trend in drawing activity in Slovenia slowed. There must be poor planning and insufficient flexibility for the government, which is reflected in the fact that the funds have not been exhausted sufficiently effectively. I wonder what the cash flows between Slovenia and the Union are, how much we pay and how much we get. Here we are confidently at a disadvantage, as the Republic of Slovenia was a net payer to the European Union in 2008. As I am aware, the Court of Auditors has been kept informed of the flow of funds, so that we cannot talk about non-transparentness. The economic crisis in Europe has already turned into a political crisis, a signal to us in some way that species need to be shrinked and left and right forgotten. Our economy is tied to 70% exports and largely depends on foreign suppliers, so it is very important how things will be handled in favour of our economy within the country. Europe is saving its economy with all possible means and there is no mercy here. The one inside the system who is not ready to react with the same measure will fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! So I have felt a number of conflicting opinions in the presentation of the Minister on the topic under consideration and the Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I think it was possible to feel this big difference in giving away the essence of the problem. Of course, I can also agree that a project may need to be re-examined, and that there is also something to check again because of the crisis we have. However, implementation may have created problems in the implementation of individual projects themselves and may also give priority to some cases. However, in global terms, not unless we want the whole project to continue. I do not think there is any need for any change here, nor for the organisation of fund-raising - this would be the worst for the country or the possibility of drawing - and not for any major change in priorities. Thus, it is also a matter of some major state projects, which are dependent not only on the Ministry or the Government’s service, but also on various other activities. In particular, there is one such case in the field of transport. However, I must say that it has been quite confusing in the opinions of some parliamentary groups that it is a matter of political projects, that it is necessary to re-examine. A colleague of Brunskole spoke about political projects on behalf of the parliamentary group. I don't know if she meant the white-screen plumbing. I agree, let him be checked by someone, but I am firmly convinced that the Belarusian pipeline is not a political project, but is a project that has been dragged for many years and must be completed, it must also be paid from these resources, because the Belokranj and the Belokranjka need this pipeline, of course. Is it necessary to re-check, I don't know, the project of the Roman spas? Far from it. Somebody check him out if he wants to. However, I firmly believe that this project is essential for the development of tourism in Slovenia, including medical tourism. Good thing it's running. Should the Coronation Waste Management Centre be checked? Certainly if anyone wants to check it, but I firmly believe that all these projects, environmental projects, Slovenia and individual areas are urgently needed. On the other hand, if I look at the conclusions of the Committee on Local Self-Government, it seems to me that at least three-quarters of the tasks given to the Government or the government to carry out, various analyses and reports and possible reorganisation checks, and so on and so on, I think that this is negative, that this is bad. I firmly believe that it is much better that all of you, who are responsible for the implementation of individual projects, are working on projects, not on analyses and judgements and what else I know. As I know, you're missing people, you're missing people in the previous term, and now they're even more missing because, as I have data, there are fewer. I hope no one else gets out of there. It is necessary to work on projects, not on analyses and calculations due to analyses or calculations. The other things have already been clearly defined by colleague Bogovic in the opinion of our Group of Members, so I would not repeat this. However, I express my clear position that I will not support the conclusions drawn up by the Committee on Local Self-Government, but I will support the conclusions put forward by the SDS Group of Members, which are summarised in the conclusions of the Committee on Budgetary Control. I also agree with the explanation of these conclusions, or the explanation of this amendment, which states that the amendment provides an operational basis for the continuation of the successful use of European funds in the years to come, and is aimed at accelerating investment in those areas that can contribute significantly to faster economic development and thus to faster economic growth. That's why, of course, it's about everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Greetings to the minister and to the coworkers! Right away in the introduction, I think the Ministry has properly presented the issue of drawing on European funds. I also agree, I will say what with most of the conclusions of the working body, the Committee on Local Self-Government, because if the Court of Auditors draws our attention to a problem, then, of course, it is necessary to pay some attention, but I will focus on the debate, and I will focus on the discussion in advance and not back. Of course, every time we get one result, someone sees it as a success, the other one sees it as a failure. I must say that the story of drawing on European funds is relatively new, and all together from the ministry forward to the congregations we have been learning, and I am sure that we will and must be better and even more successful in these years that are coming. As mayor of one of the major Slovenian projects for each municipality, we must say that we have gained some valuable experience, but I am sure that if I tell them here they will benefit many more in this country. Above all, we must prepare for these projects better than we have in the past. If you look at the first page in Finance there is a serious warning to Slovenian municipalities, which are in serious financial distress, the situation in the field of municipal finances deteriorated in 2008 and the municipality, which has a bad financial situation, of course, cannot be a good user of European funds. Therefore, those municipalities that count on specific projects, of course, need to be saved for these investments in budgets, rebalancing at least two years earlier. On the other hand, the mayors have also addressed several appeals to the country in adopting the balance, if, of course, at a time when lending municipalities is difficult when it is difficult to get additional resources, if the state does not adequately help, then of course we will also draw significantly less resources than all of us would like to do together. Let's say the cohesion European project works so that when an account is presented to the municipality as an investor, then, of course, an application is made in Brussels for the country and funds come back. I have to say here that if there are delays, there may be some problems. The other thing, of course, is public procurement. In the field of public procurement, a number of complaints, some justified, others not justified, can cost and lose millions and millions of European funds. That's when time runs relentlessly. The revision of public procurement is certainly a simplification of procedures and, on the other hand, an increase in accountability, certainly on the ground in order to make us faster and more effective. One of the stories that many people in this country do not realize at local level is that for European cohesion projects the project must already be prepared on the basis that the land-book story is indisputable and many municipalities already have a notified, approved project and there is no land available for that purpose. Then comes another problem, the acquisition of a building permit, and I am convinced that the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Development must also appeal to the Ministry of Public Administration that when municipalities obtain building permits, consent for sewerage, plumbing, cleaning facilities, of course, it is not necessary to be so hairy as if someone in the middle of some wild wants to build a weekend for luxury and entertainment. The municipalities, of course, have these projects in the areas of water supply, sewerage, cleaning equipment, and we are building something else to suit the public benefits and not the personal interest of people. I think that many of the projects we run in Slovenia, administrative units, to express themselves kindly and mildly, are difficult to follow, or follow with great effort. Therefore, of course, any appeal in this place would certainly not be too much. It's a financial story. There are also such matters that I have addressed to the Minister, not as much as an initiative, as I have addressed at Monday's meeting. For example, when municipalities run cohesion projects, there is an opening of the road, a number of municipal infrastructures, which are owned and operated by municipalities, are incorporated into the road. However, we face problems that we did not have two or three years ago. For example, when it is necessary to install electrical infrastructure into the same road, when it is necessary to install a cable operator, or telephone water, these companies, which are mostly state-owned, do not have enough resources to follow the projects of the municipalities and threaten to break up, for example, because of the water supply, sewerage. State-owned companies currently lack the means to invest and there will be new roads in five, six or ten years to dig up again, and this, of course, also means reckless spending of taxpayers' money. It is also important to pay attention to this issue and also to consider whether electricity distributors have the option of using European funds, if Slovenia threatens not to draw on all Brussels money due to certain problems. In particular, because I have to say that certain of these state-owned companies are relatively well prepared for this pump, they may be even better than local communities, because they have a well-trained implementation network and also a design network. I think that if we combine all of this and make the most of it, there will be significantly more benefits for Slovenians and Slovenians than if we spend a few hours making sure that the previous ones have been more successful or we will be more successful. I certainly support the Court of Auditors, however, if it points out that there is a problem that we Members and Members are obliged to pay full attention to and clear up the matter, not in the light of political accounting, especially in the light of the ever more successful use of European funds in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u115	Mr Laszlo Gönch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and honourable Members! I'm not going to define myself until I've made the assessments of one, the other, or the third party. I note that there is a need for less talk and more action on the part of Mr Saiovic. It is a fact that this is a modern - day matter, a modern - day possibility that will require much more in the organization or organization of upgrades and upgrades in many ways. I will address some of the issues mainly from the territorial area. I would like to point out that the use of European funds during the period considered has been significantly lower in the case of some economically less developed areas, particularly the eastern part of the country, indicating to some extent some inconsistencies in the organisation system. Otherwise, in the case of, for example, Pomurje, there were quite a few positive cases when European money focused on good investment. However, it is important to note, in order to improve the situation, the weaknesses and inconsistencies of the policy of drawing on so-called European funds or money. Despite certain positive trends, we need to find out, as has already been said, that it is mainly from the perspective of more coherent regional development that direct or direct shortcomings are to be observed. We probably all agree that with an even more consistent way of drawing, we can first provide opportunities for a gradual rise in the provinces or regions that are far behind the Slovenian average. The findings are particularly relevant to the national mixed area in Prekmurje, where the situation is even more problematic in the demographic and social areas most threatened. And right here, there were virtually no financial injections from different European funds during the period considered. The congregations there, some of which are mainly fed in general, will not be able to make a real qualitative move despite their great engagement. I am sure that, with greater attention from the competent national authorities and services, European funds may also be drawn up and corrected in this respect. I would like to point out that in the case of less developed areas and municipalities, the acquisition of European financial resources in addition to development and economical and social, cultural, demographic and other foreign aspects is also an important issue. Finally, I would like to mention or draw attention to the problem of some small municipalities that have managed to obtain certain European funds, but point out that a relatively long period of money has been allocated after projects have been implemented by the State or State authorities, which poses a major problem for them, as the municipalities may have to cover the costs incurred from other sources for several months, and this puts a large number of such municipalities into particular difficulties due to liquidity problems. Therefore, the Government or the competent ministry will still have a lot to do in this area, and I would also like to point out in particular that the situation is improving from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Franz Puksich. He's not here. Mr. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members. First of all, in the Commission for the supervision of public finances, we also wanted to take note of the conclusions adopted by the Commission on the supervision of public finances on this subject, and the President of Parliament or the College did not accept this initiative, so we have in some way only one domestic working body, which presented its findings, not both of which addressed the topic. However, the debate allows this breadth to be clarified by the dilemmas that we have dealt with there. Firstly, I would not like to repeat everything that has already been said, even on the part of our Group of Members, and that is true, but I would like to highlight some of the key important reasons why the Government has probably also decided to in some way stop European funds from being used. Indeed, we expected certain accelerations, and we are aware that this was less than it was in the adopted budget. Look, the government started with relatively bad messages at the very beginning. For the first time, she said that she would change the institutional framework, which means that this structure, which she has so far divided and then later supervised, approved, and I don't know what else she's doing, would change. Another important announcement was that it would change development priorities. None of this has yet happened and no proposal has yet been made in this respect. In some ways, the situation is static, with the Government not defining itself to the existing development priorities and offering no new ones, while criticising or polarising and underlining those provisions of the Court of Auditors which identify certain inefficiencies and weaknesses and proposing nothing new in the existing institutional system. And that, I think, is also why we're kind of standing at a dead point, why we're not accelerating, we're not going full steam ahead. See, not only has the previous government paid a lot of attention to the extent of drawing, but also to the effects and projects for which European funds are being drawn. Remember that the Government has adopted a Resolution of national projects, where it has identified a number of important national projects: economic, economic infrastructure, roads, railways, health, justice and so on. Many European money has also been allocated to these projects in the Resolution, and a significant proportion of co-financing of these projects has been covered by European funds in the financial structure. Where are these projects? So whether the government recognizes them as useful or will continue with them or not. This is especially what those developmental institutions expect and want throughout the regions and everywhere in Slovenia. So when we talk about the efficiency of drawing and the obvious about some fragmented drawing, we have in some ways offered an approach that allows for great projects and greater impacts. Once again, however, the government has announced a change in these development priorities, there is no change, we stand still, unfortunately. In fact, the following is a worrying fact that many of the projects that were approved and carried out last year will fall into funding, cash flow this year. This means that, let's say, the bulk of this year's rebalancing budget will be eaten by projects that are already in progress. For we know that the fruit of some calls is in the past. Now we're gonna have to pay for the situation. So, on the one hand, we have a smaller volume of resources in the balance sheet, but on the other hand we also have to finance old projects from these funds, which means that the space for new projects is even less than that shown by the balance. I fear that these conclusions, which the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has proposed, are more likely to conclude that someone is dealing with himself than, in fact, a clear message that projects need to be done, created and also drawn on European funds. It's a huge purpose to find a mistake in the past to account for someone to say, "Yeah, you see, we were right to spend recklessly on a project." On the other hand, there is no new policy, better policy, new development priorities, what we all expected. Even when we are talking about road infrastructure, there is less money in the balance sheet, at least as I have seen, than in the revised budget. And I'm really wondering where this developmental breakthrough is going to be. Once again, I am convinced that the concept of such economic centres, as defined in the Eesolution of National Projects, is a concept that could reduce the developmental differences between regions, as these 9 economic centres are spread across Slovenia. It is true that in some regions, they are in the front, in some of the background, even with regard to accommodation and the like. However, these are major projects, which are supposed to combine horizontal and vertical economic operators at one level, vertically connect them to knowledge institutions, schools, schools, and actually have a developmental whole within these economic centres. I couldn't see or see anything happening in this field. There have been several examples of consistent regional development. In addition to these resolution projects, according to my only project in the Republic of Slovenia, which will reduce or reduce development differences over a long period of time, the project for the introduction of landscapes in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore encourage the ministry in this town to prepare legislation, I am pleased that you have included it in the work programme for this year and I wish you to be successful in this project. Because of your prestige, we will not throw pollen under your feet because we believe that this is a key project to reduce development differences. The development gap index is increasing despite all efforts, whatever anyone has already said, towards more coherent regional development. This is because as long as money is channeled from Ljubljana to Gorenjska, to Pomurje, to the White Landscape, to Posavje, to Dolenjska or to anyone else. It's going to be that long, as long as someone from one center decides about it. And until the landscapes are over, unfortunately, we will face the fact that differences in Slovenia will increase despite efforts. Let me mention that we have been working in the direction of many calls to assign to regions with a higher degree of developmental hazard several points, that we have previously recognized them as good than others, but yet we have not succeeded in what is the goal of all of us. And there's one more thing. Today, there has been a number of emphasis on something that does not hold up and that does not come from the Court of Auditors’ findings. This is that, on the basis of this audit report of the European Union's resources, Slovenia was a net payer at the end of the 2007 State budget. Slovenia was a net recipient in 2007, and this is clearly stated in the final account. It says that if we take into account, in addition to the budget, all other flows from the European budget to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia has shown 31.3 million euros in surplus. And I think it is right and right to look at all the funds we have paid into the European budget and all the funds we have received from the European budget and then talk about Slovenia's net position. If we look at it this way, then it was Slovenia, this is based on the audit report, everyone can read it on page 4 even if it is clear to those slightly less careful readers that this is the case. And please do not stress here something that is not true, that even in the first year of financial perspective was the reason for this position of Slovenia in the implementation of the financial perspective in the late negotiation. I would like to see effective fund-raising continue in the future as well. The government's messages are bad, the government's messages are such that they predict less resources than they originally did. Despite the fact that someone can make a statement about poor planning, it is very important to communicate the level of resources in the budget. And it's going down, and that's bad. That's the first thing. The other thing is that the efficiency of drawing depends very much on the effective part of the office, which is linked to this whole story. This is a great deal, both in those ministries that carry out or are responsible for them, as in the Ministry of Local Administration, as in the payment authority or the Ministry of Finance and so on. If people deal with this daily, then pumping is more effective if you leave them alone, I'm sorry to say it, pumping is ineffective and we have witnessed it. I hope you're also doing this a day or at least a week now and coordinating these activities. Since the procedure is very difficult, pumping must have an appropriate priority in the execution of the government's tasks. I appeal to you to place it high on the priority list, too, unless you're already on it. Your Honor, if we look ahead, it started quite unhappily. I'll take that back. Because you've been predicting some changes and they're not there. People don't know what they're up to, no calls. On the other hand, you have announced a change in development priorities, and there is no change. You have not defined yourself not to the old, not to the new and people can actually just wait for some "horuk information" that will come, but the volume of funds is reduced. I believe that European funds could be a very important tool for getting out of the economic crisis so that they can support important infrastructure projects such as transport, rail, information, energy infrastructure, such as the technological breakthrough of the economy. Unfortunately, there is no spirit, no hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u119	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Zares Group, and personally, we welcome today's debate and think it is necessary to draw on European funds. For, according to our assessment, there is a real and mentally problematic, great danger and fear that in Slovenia we will face major problems in drawing and using European funds in the coming years. This is pointed out by those who have a slightly deeper insight into things. I am sure, and also today's debate shows that, unfortunately, we will be condemned by the politicians to discuss, in the years ahead, who is to blame and to place our responsibility on one side, now on the other. This suggests that we do not really know the problem from the right perspective. Therefore, I believe that a thorough analysis and a back-up review would be necessary. Unfortunately, I don't think we've done that kind of analysis. I am sorry for our government, because although this report gives us a number of data, it does not give us a proper analytical approach. That is why there will probably be a lot of debate in the future and, of course, a lot of misdemeanour here and there. We are not as pleased with the message as I said, and at this point we would really like to do some back-up audit. For what we are listening to today, by some Members, clearly indicates that it will be misleading and will try to show itself, as in the closing account, perhaps even by force and also at a very high price, a situation better than it is. Why do I think there's trouble? For this report, respected colleagues and colleagues, was prepared by that official structure, which was also a vehicle for action in the past period. Mr Vizjak said that some predictions about institutional changes were being prepared. That's exactly what he's talking about. I personally believe that this structure has not prepared a proper analysis and that this structure is not one that could be the vehicle for drawing on European funds in the future. It will be necessary, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, for human resources reinforcements, perhaps even for changes if we are to make progress. It is known that there is not actually sufficient expertise. It may be part of the blame that we have for the first time or that we simply do not have enough qualified people, but I think it will be necessary to find such people, or else it will not go on as it should. Of course, I think this is one of the key things that awaits this new government. In addition, I would like to say that, unlike opposition colleagues who claim to be doing nothing, the Government has devoted a great deal of attention to this area in these hundreds of days, and that, finally, it was also a special point at the government's meeting that appropriate organisational changes were also being prepared to strengthen these things. And, of course, I think that some of the measures have already been prepared by going in the right direction. Now for the conclusions we have before us. We have two conclusions. We have conclusions which, on the one hand, somehow show and talk about poor implementation, which are also prepared on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, which warns, even in some way indirectly through the changes requested, that perhaps planning was not the most appropriate and generally suggest that fundamental changes in the organisation of use and, of course, also in the ventilation of individual projects will be needed. On the other hand, the conclusions of the party, the former ruling coalitions, show and wish to present the situation as appropriate, as if nothing had been wrong and as if we could wait completely peacefully for future periods, of course if everything would go as far as it was set. But the data we have and when we gather everything that has been gathered in recent months, through various reports, interviews and discussions, and the Court of Auditors report, we see that there are many things wrong. Last but not least, the fact is that two hundred and fifty million euros of unrealised planned revenue remained in 2007. This is a number that no one will ever be able to erase, even if there is another session to be adopted at, perhaps, different conclusions. And, of course, we also have warnings from the European Commission, and the fact is that we have made the biggest error in the forecast between all countries in Slovenia. This is also a fact, and this is also what someone did, and this is part of this story that I'm talking about, that maybe the team that runs this and that was placed under the previous government is not appropriate and is not capable of following this business. The findings of the Court of Auditors are also a fact. However, Mr Vizjak said that not all the amounts were taken into account in order to really get a picture of whether Slovenia is a net payer or not. However, he did not read that sentence, which then goes on to say that non-compliance with the gross recording principle does not affect the net position of the State budget towards the European Union. So, even if we add up gross all the amounts, there will still be the fact that Slovenia is a net payer and I think that is our joint failure. Whatever we look at him, whoever's to blame, we probably didn't expect that in Slovenia, and this relationship is going to be even worse in the years to come. For what? Because of the poor foundations, due to the wrong planning, because I think that we are all aware at this time that, as stated in the conclusions of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the argument that everything is okay is that the calls have been prepared in a way where the approach used to draw up more resources than is available. This is supposed to be an argument that everyone in Slovenia should be comforted that we have actually done everything right. What are these projects, how developmental they are, whether they are planned for real, are feasible, nobody cares. This will be the responsibility of the new government, and I am convinced that this will also be the objective set by the opposition, that it will be forgotten that the foundations and foundations on which this is based may have been wrong and that it will be lost for quite some time to correct it. It is clear from the Court of Auditors' report that the final account attempted to blur the situation and display, record and so on, everything written here, so that the matter would look better and that it would not actually be clear what is crucial that only 8.8% of the funds were received from the European Union. And this is the thing that stands in the summary of the audit report. I think that, from a national point of view, from the point of view of our taxpayers, what we are going to talk about and how we are going to translate and prove ourselves who is more and who is less right is more important than what I think the Government is doing now and what the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Local Self-Government are, therefore, that the view is focused in advance. And I think that at the last government meeting, such decisions were taken. I think there is also a chance that, in the face of great efforts, this thing also improves a little bit. And I hope the government will pay all its attention to this. Certainly, the problem we need to talk about is also a great dispersion. Just as we have dispersed the Slovenian municipalities and some small municipalities have problems, we have also dispersed these projects into a range of smaller projects, so that we also satisfy small Slovenian interests. And, of course, that's why these projects are also very difficult to control, manage, control, and here, I think it's a big problem. And in this sense, in our Group of Members, we support the Government to do what we can read about, but also to review these projects in terms of their effectiveness, developmental orientation, feasibility and also to make them even possible. I think this over-exploitation of projects is necessary. There is also a need for a careful focus on a smaller number of major and more important projects, although we have been able to read that there will also be a problem, as these larger ones have problems in some other areas. Maybe, mentioning everything about highways is stopped because of what was done before the elections, because of the vignettes. And that will also have to be resolved and settled. We're optimistic. We hope that the new government has taken the right path. But we would be much more pleased if we really had the right insight into where we are, because this is the only thing that could prevent the constant controversy that will rule in this space, who is less, who is more and who is not responsible for the problems that I think are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u121	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! One of the main reasons for Slovenia's entry into the EU was the possibility of drawing funds from the European budget. If we have been relatively successful in drawing up pre-accession assistance at the time of entry into the EU, we cannot claim this for the period after 2004. The most visual is the data. If we compare on the one hand the revenue from the EU budget to the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia and on the other hand the expenditure from the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU budget for 2008, the first page shows only 46% of the EU funds draw, while the Slovenian payments to the EU budget are more than 114%. We have invested more than 64 million euros in the European budget for 2008 than we have received from it. The balance sheet is therefore negative, although the Republic of Slovenia should be a net beneficiary of the European budget until 2013. Please tell me how it is possible that we have only absorbed 6.56% of the €325 million from the 2008 European Regional Development Fund budget, just 25 and a half million. It doesn't go on like that anymore. I only wish that today's debate in the National Assembly and the measures taken in this area by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministries will significantly help to increase the efficiency of European funding. During the great global financial and economic crisis, it is possible to draw on European funds effectively to help the Republic of Slovenia cope more easily with the recession. The European funds that we have at our disposal and are actually waiting for us to draw on them will be able to make a substantial contribution to the new start-up of the Slovenian economy. For this reason, I believe that the effective use of European funds is one of the key tasks of Slovenian policy within the mandate of this government. In doing so, I would like to present some more of my observations. First time. The use of European funds is very imprudent. The municipal and state administration are not well qualified for this difficult and relatively complicated work. The imprudentness of drawing and the lack of skill are ideal fields for fishing in mud. I am particularly disappointed at the willingness of large infrastructure projects, especially in the field of road infrastructure, because, in my opinion, no project on so-called development axes is ready for this phase in order to start drawing on European funds. From 2005 to today, we do not have one in the field of road infrastructure in the area of newly placed state roads. At that time, no state-owned location plan has been adopted for the installation of new state routes, state-owned road routes in the area. This calls for swift action and a change of legislation, and perhaps a change of staff within the state administration. For example, a special story is the drawing-up of funds from the Norwegian financial mechanism. If I were to give you an example of the construction of a kindergarten in Idrija, which we built in June 2008 and to date we have not received funding from the Norwegian financial mechanism, so that the municipality of Idrija had to invest almost EUR 2 million of its own money for this project, then we would have to answer the question why the Slovenian administration in the area of European funds is so inefficient. Mr Vizjak previously drew attention to the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, published in this brochure and adopted by the previous Government. This brochure contains a set of 35 major projects, which are also to a large extent to be financed by European funds. I ask you how many of these funds are now ready to be drawn from the European Structural Funds. If we look at it, let's say I repeat, a project to modernise the state road network on priority development axes. These are listed here: the third development axis, the third development axis, the fourth development axis, the project adopted by the previous government in 2006 is not capable of drawing on European funds today. It is said that this was more of a wish on paper, which is not feasible, although from the means of public information we can understand that these projects, which I mentioned earlier, are capable of drawing funds from the EU only after 2018. However, unless appropriate location plans and appropriate building permits are adopted, it will not be possible to launch these projects by 2023. The net beneficiary of the European budget will only be the Republic of Slovenia until 2013, it is said that we do not have much time. The former government apparently missed its train in this area. I hope this doesn't happen to our government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u123	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the light of today's evidence of poor drawing, slow drawing of European funds, we should look at all the procedures that led to this situation and see what has been done on a case-by-case basis or what has been missed, what we have done well. I would start with a financial perspective 2007-2013. In those years when it was adopted and when the Luxembourg Presidency was held, the current secretary, Mr Cwickl, did not cease to bomb us with ever-new bombardment news, how urgent it is to adopt a Luxembourg proposal, which would mean finesse in the light of the negotiations later. I think he even used the expression that Slovenia is like a monkey sitting on a fence waiting for what's gonna happen. The government of Janez Janša certainly had nerves, probably other governments, which later went better or worse to the financial perspective under the English Presidency. Slovenia has certainly negotiated well since over 4 billion euros have been approved. Now there's a problem. Europe has done its homework, and we have not yet done it in Slovenia, because it is necessary to prepare projects and to bring this money to life under strict EU standards and thus spend money. We can see that the previous financial perspective has been well absorbed. We may have been concerned only about the time delays, but we caught the back of our hands and the money was pumped. It may also be useful to clarify two terms, namely "commitment" or approval and "payment" or payment. When the money is granted, it is not necessary that you can start to draw on it the second day, maybe the projects are not ready, maybe there are other obstacles in the home territory, so in Slovenia. And so it can happen that in a certain year for that quota for that year, pumping is nothing. For example, if we have a project for ten million euros broken down into five years, let's not do anything first year, so let's not spend two million euros, let's do a lot the second year, let's say ten million last year and five new years, so this year we're going to have 150% of the year's revenue and 15% of the whole perspective. So much for that. So by 2013, we have plenty of time to use the right approach to leverage all resources. Then there is the realization at local level. Perhaps I could explain the matter in our home case, for then it begins to cook at home when locals do, and I do not know what other interests. For 30 years, Bishop Loka has been preparing a transport solution for the old city core, which is a cultural monument, but I don't know what else, but especially a major obstacle to the development of both valleys, because heavy traffic takes place across the old city core. Thirty-five years of waiting, fifteen different variants, eventually comes into the lives of sixteen, maybe I'm wrong about one or two because there are different sources, but mostly, it's adopted in development programmes, European funds are granted. The railway is being built in stages, and I would like to point out that at the same time this railway is also part of the so-called fourth development axis mentioned by colleague Bevk. So this fourth development axis also kind of comes into space, even in stages, even in segments. There may be another question on the road itself, but it is not an obstacle that we would not be more determined to take over the European cash register by 2013. So, three stages of construction of this periphery, they're already made of an entry point and an exit point, and then the home kitchen begins. As you know, we had a rerun of the mayoral elections, a complaint against two voters, and at that time, there was a civil initiative at home. There are also personal interests, as the railing or the bypass route goes too close to the house of the President of the local DeSUS. The mayor's candidate, who had a whole bunch of complaints, is also a member of DeSUS. And when I see a list of civil initiative initiators at home, there are farmers in the first four places that the plot goes over. I understand their interest. They will come to a better payment for parcels in this way, because the farmer’s land is sold only once for building, then it is lost forever. Then the 5th and 7th are already mentioned the mayoral candidate and the local president. And this is how a civil initiative prevents European funds from being drawn up. I would ask myself, because there are other projects in our environment that are paid with European money, and the Ministry of the Environment is limping on the route – performers at home and whether there is also a civil initiative or as a floor operation. In Gorenjska, where we are, I will bring you in writing, my friend. [[...]] In Gorenjska, where the Gorenjska Development Agency chose the password: "Gorenjska goes up." The colleagues we are from there are also involved in these projects. However, we cannot help but see that there has also been a whole bunch of civil initiatives in Gorenjska, under which it is very easy to find a local February that has its own plans. So much for these developments on the ground, which, of course, also hinder the realisation of projects and the use of European funds. In general, however, there is such a direction that development agencies, local communities such as mayors and municipal councils should have projects at their disposal and, when the call is made, immediately withdraw the project from the tender and just complete it and invest it. As we have already heard today, funds are running late, so it might be good to have a part of the bridging resources provided in the state budget. If Norwegian funds are late, the state could partially subsidise the case and then fill this gap from the Norwegian fund. However, the great importance of the European Union's resources is certainly for the financing of our development challenges, which I think we are all united in terms of European funding for infrastructure. We are also bound by the European Directives, either the regulation of sewerages, the regulation of water supply, the management of municipal waste, recommendations for better connectivity with broadband, perhaps measures against climate change, the Lisbon development objectives and could also be listed. So, even small projects are not a problem, since four municipalities, such as in our case, can step in together and implement the project together and share in a relationship how much is happening in a municipality. So, there are still many options and they need to be taken advantage of by 2013, if not, in these times of crisis, we will indeed have €4 billion lying somewhere in an account that has not been used. That would be a lot of nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you applied for an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zicherl named me in his discussion on the fourth developmental axis. And it is true that I agree with him that there are many local kitchens and civil initiatives, but in my opinion we should amend the legislation so that a civil initiative could not stop a project for five, 10 years, but only for some understandable time, maybe a few months, half a year, and then there are solutions that are in common and in particular in the public interest. Not in the private interest, as often happens in civil initiatives, which then somehow change, as if they were some kind of initiative, but often it is a matter of private interest. That is why I think that an intervention in the relevant legislation would be necessary here, that this matter should be settled and that this matter is more effective. See, September 2006 was a spatial conference for the classification of part of the fourth development axis at the section from Cerkne to Gorenje village. From September 2006 to today, within a few months, more than three years from this date, nothing has happened. If this is the case, then we will not have a fourth or third development axis - not until 2013, not until 2018, not until 2023, when the 35 government projects adopted by the previous government are due to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Bogdan Barovic will discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Briefly in the past, briefly in the present and in the human and domestic. Slovenia has not taken advantage of all the options it could. Why? This is true, from my point of view on the left, of the former government. Because the invitations were too late. Why were the invitations too late? Because they were too late planned. In view of the fact that the State was unable to parise with its share of the funds that it should invest in projects financed by European funds. These funds to be provided by the State have been spent elsewhere by the State. Of course, because the invitation to tender was too late because there was no possibility to apply, it was the European Union's fault that it did not receive the funds, the one that did not apply. In fact, it was the Government's fault because it was timeless, immeasurable, and planned, because all the funds or the majority of the funds the State had allocated to co-financing European funds and projects were spent elsewhere. That's true, and that's too bad anyone's saying it's not true. I am sure that Madam Minister knows so much better because she has been an operative for 20 years and is more capable than all of us who can speak here for 20 years - I will say it honestly again and admit it. Another time. Madam Minister, don't mind us, I know you, I know you've been doing honestly and honestly, and that you've understood the problems and problems and you've swallowed them up, but today you have this opportunity and unfortunately also the responsibility that you'll be using everything you know, what's hidden, what I've now made clear, to your advantage, because you know that will happen as it is. Why am I bringing this up? Because I'm afraid the story I was talking about about the previous government is repeating itself. By the way, I'd expect invitations, but they're not. And I believe that these calls, which would be timely so that all users can now apply for European funds, those that we can still draw - are not your fault, but that someone is politically blocking this story. I have that right to suspect here, and I suspect it. And I fear that the story will repeat itself that the calls will be too late, that applications will not be timely, because they cannot be, because for certain projects you need at least a year, you know that better than I do, the blame will be on those who are not ready because they do not know what they can apply for, for which they can apply, and again we think that those funds that the State must devote as a contribution to co-financing European projects will be spent elsewhere. That's how it happened, and I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be. Therefore, I ask you not to allow this and not to let - because I believe you - not to let anyone else in the background of the team that you have, or that the policy will let you fool yourself into waiting now for political orders just so that the state will hide the funds that it does not have or say that you have not applied, but we have already given these funds to European affairs somewhere else. I'm afraid of that, Madam Secretary, and don't let go. And finally, you know, it's the weirdest thing. I've been listening, for some time here, to something in the office, because I've also been writing comments, talking about how we're all dissatisfied with using, using the resources offered by the European Union. In doing so, I am surprised that, despite the Committee's president's benevolent cooperation, the Slovenian National Party has proposed an amendment to the conclusions, which reads as follows: "Members of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the National Assembly will support all activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all ministries to achieve the goal that Slovenia will draw on the majority or all of the resources it can get from the general budget of the European Community." You're all talking about how this is necessary. We have proposed such a decision, but the committee has rejected it. He rejected what all two and a half hours of talking about today would be necessary. He rejected the proposal of the Slovenian National Party that all ongoing projects that were ongoing, continued and should not be terminated unless the competent authority, the Court of Auditors or anyone found that anything had happened wrong. What's wrong with this joint? Nothing! To draw on what we can - no, the committee rejected this decision; I don't know why. But that's what they've been talking about all day. And the third conclusion: "For the execution of individual projects, the deadlines should be set by law." Everyone today is talking about how there are no deadlines, how we don't know when the invitations will be. And if the Slovenian National Party proposes such decisions as you are all talking about today, they shall be rejected by the Committee. Yeah, where do we live?Oh, my God! Or is it because we're wrong? The Slovenian national party had absolutely good intentions because we have experience because we support the Minister because I know she has 20 years and more experience, and because I know she will do well. But since we are the Slovenian National Party and the opposition, that is not good. And now the position will continue to speak exactly this content that it has rejected. And here you need to understand that man is angry. As we said yesterday - like Mr Perne, with all due respect - we actually did the whole debate only after whether a point is suitable for discussion or not, and we have already done it anyway, but it is not suitable for discussion. So, Madam Minister, it is only right that we are talking about this, that you should speak frankly about putting the data on the table. I made a statement from the previous authorities that she didn't have her share and she was hiding it that the calls were being delayed. And I'm asking you, because I believe in you, at least you don't do this and don't let go, even if you have political pressures on one side or the other, don't let it happen. You know how much time it takes from the call for proposals to the project to the start-up, to the take-up and how much of the country must be defined in the budget. I hope and believe, and I trust in you that you will stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, I would like to discuss Mr Villa Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Just a brief explanation to my colleague Barovic. It's a little different than you, buddy. Unfortunately, you weren't on the board. The proposed decision was similar to that and should be somewhat supplemented. Since you weren't on the board, we couldn't take the right to supplement it properly in order to be acceptable to the majority of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u132	It's not a replica, it's just an answer. I have said that, with all the permissibility of Mr President of the Committee, decisions have not been taken. It doesn't matter if they weren't, but it bothers me that everyone today is talking about how perfect they are, how Slovenia has to make use of these resources, how good it is to take advantage of what is going on, and how important it is that they are timely. It bothers me. Mr President, once again, he has been corrected, he has been benevolent. But it was because of other obligations, including those relating to the use of such funds, that I could not be on the committee, which I hope you do not consider to be bad, even though I made the amendment in good time and very correctly. And again. That's not an omen to you. It bothers me, however, that we are talking about this content today, and today this content is appropriate, as a decision to make, and this content was not appropriate. It's all that surprises me and bothers me, but it's all right. We're gonna get through this, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Damian Perne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u134	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Thank you for your word. It is with interest that I have followed this debate so far, and it is particularly interesting to see how we have different views on one thing at a time. A huge number of numbers and percentages have turned around in these debates and we are still talking, although we are talking about these percentages, on the one hand, about the almost bravorous, beautiful images of the use of European funds, and on the other hand we have a lot of criticism. I'm afraid that some kind of mathematical acrobatics was used in this bravorosomal assessment, very similar to that in making a closing account that would no longer be touched. We've discussed him a lot. In any way, I would also try to avoid all those numbers and percentages that we have already discussed a lot today, because I would rather touch on those particular calls that have been and how we have benefited them; how I see it from the terrain where we have actually faced it. However, some figures would still be touched, and we have heard an assessment of how much European funding was spent at 130%. It's easy for me here, if you want, farmers logic doesn't work together. It's hard to pour 130 liters of wine out of 100 liters of soda, unless you filled it in with water. And I'm afraid that was the case with these calls. In fact, those of us who monitored the calls for regional development, for example, are said to be funds for regional development, and interesting things have been happening to us. In the midst of the tenders, for example, tendering conditions changed and, suddenly, some projects that had been notified no longer met those tendering conditions. In any case, there were projects here, on the one hand, projects fell because of so-called dots and commas, which also made me quoted in the paper when I said that. On the other hand, projects were adopted that had no basis to be feasible, which were to be built on land that had no purpose and so on and so on. Not to mention that the documents required for successful tendering were absolutely too low. The DIP is certainly not a guarantee that it will be feasible in practice to succeed in a call for proposals. And finally let me touch those infamous formulas for calculating the development index that was used. In a number of regions, this index, at least in that first call, we could not agree, and it is interesting that the formulas could not even be broken down in Umar when they went into it and tried to get to the bottom of how everything was actually calculated. I think that the Court of Auditors' report was clear, and I would never discuss it again. In any case, I also believe that European funds must, of course, be drawn up. It is good if we succeed, but we will only raise and celebrate glasses when these projects are also realized. I'm afraid the reality is catastrophic, too low, even on the basis of what I just said. That is why I think that all those conclusions on the parental committee that we have adopted are in place, and I think we will probably have a lot to discuss here in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u136	Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister. At the meeting of the parent body, the Government's representatives expressed concern that it would be difficult for them to provide more investment assets in the budget balance for this year than for mating or for their share in drawing on European funds. However, what many municipalities have not yet provided spatial conditions for a nine-year-old in primary schools has not had sufficient space for preschool education, for kindergartens. Some congregations, where they had already been able to build this, had to commit themselves so that they no longer had the opportunity to provide their resources for these European projects. At the Ministry of Education, where funds should be provided for those projects, some have been ready for several years and are waiting primarily for the Ministry's funds, say they are not there and are not expected. We know that a new regulation is in force on the basis of which, if the project does not start in time, additional costs to be provided by the municipalities will need to be redesigned. These costs are not an integral part of the eligible cost of co-financing. Therefore, I propose that the Government from those operational programmes, which we know will not be exhausted, which have already been drawn up in a low percentage, should somehow redistribute and ensure to these ministries that these investments are carried out because they are in large backlog. Some municipalities also have children through firehouses, while only faroes remain to put their children there, and projects have been prepared for several years and also in the Ministry’s development plans. I would like to appeal to the Government to seek, within these means, possible from an operational programme of human resources or something like that, perhaps by amending any operational programme, including the means to ensure the normal functioning of primary schools or nine-year-old programmes in this area. I would also touch on the operational programme for the development of the regions. The municipalities are expected to absorb around 35 to 40% of these four billion euros. We have 12 regional programmes, 12 regional development councils, 12 worlds of the regions that decide on these projects that go into recruitment. Behind these programmes are municipal budgets, municipal development programmes for years to come. I think that this way of drawing on or choosing these projects has been well established that municipalities have projects, or more municipalities together, and are waiting for calls to draw on these funds. We also know that the State of Slovenia has promised the European Union in certain areas of waste management, decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters, as well as water supply to build this infrastructure by a certain date. In municipalities and national associations, we find that, given the level of appropriate spending or the resources allocated by the State to the municipalities, this is impossible. And it is late for both the congregations and the competent ministries to sit down. The conclusions that have been adopted on the parental committee, I think, are good for the country to make a cut in the situation, to sit together and see realistic options, how to draw all the resources we have available, and how to build as much as possible. Not only are we discussing this, but we are actually operationally engaged in these projects, which are our joint, both municipal and national. The country could already have, which is not only the responsibility of the previous government, a plan of state roads programmes, major state projects and, together with the municipalities, would seek synergies in the implementation of these projects, both municipal, regional or national. I can only mention one project in the construction of the highway on this last leg, when synergies were found between the construction of infrastructure in the industrial zone and the construction of the highway. When there is a surplus of material in the industrial zone and there is a shortage in the construction of the highway and this is somehow covered, thus reducing costs for one project and another. I think that we could look for such synergies in the future for the benefit of all also in drawing on European funds. In this area, too, we have a case where the country, at the expense of the local community or the arguments of the local community, has been able to include a specific project or has more easily involved a specific project in the absorption of cohesion funds. I believe that the municipalities and regional councils or regional development councils are awaiting a response to the calls. Perhaps certain projects really need to be analysed, as colleagues said. I would also like to mention what my colleague Sayovic said about the difficulties in preparing these projects, both state and municipal, regarding the acquisition of official rights, the property rights which are the basis for the preparation of these projects. I think it takes a pretty quick reaction from the government in this area. However, the municipalities think they have quite a few projects ready and are waiting for the call. I would ask that these calls be as soon as possible so that it is not as it was in 2007, when the operational programme was approved at the end of August, and by 15 September we had to report that the works were being carried out. The construction season will also begin, and I think that if we want to build something this year, it is essential that the calls are made as soon as possible and that we remove, as far as possible, all these administrative obstacles in the following projects, to get to these projects as soon as possible. More state-owned projects than today's SD Group's position, however, I think the illusion is to be expected, as the Minister of Transport himself has stated how many years it takes to start such larger projects from putting them into space to projects. Let us give what is ready to be used as soon as possible and draw as much resources as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the government coalition is persistently presenting its view of the poor use of European funds, let me repeat some of the facts that I am taking in defence of former Minister Ivan Žagar, a minister of the SLS. The Court of Auditors in its special report on European Union funds in the final accounts notes that only a little less than 60% of the planned revenue has been realised from European funds. This information does not reflect the actual situation. The only relevant period for assessing the effectiveness of European funds drawback is a period covering the entire programming period, rather than data on the use of funds within each financial year. Some other members of the European Union have thus resolved this issue. According to the data available to us for 31.12.2007, for the 2006-2008 programming period, Slovenia has implemented the share of payments from the budget of 94% and the share of payments submitted to the European Union's paying authority was 80% on that day. According to data, the proportion of contracts signed at that date was 107%. The situation is likely to be nearing its peak today. The Cohesion Fund, however, used 51% of the funds in the area of transport on this day, in the area of the environment 37%, while the funds must be spent by the end of 2010 - so it is time for action, not to convince who is right and who is wrong. Also, data for the 2007-2013 programming period at this date show that already €1.5 billion of the total 4.1 billion available for this period have been distributed or certified, i.e. 33%. Of course, it is now the responsibility of the government coalition to ensure that the remaining funds continue to be used. The failure of the government coalition in this area will not be able to stem the previous coalition. Therefore, we cannot agree on the basis of these data and facts with the Court of Auditors' assessment and with the flat-rate estimates which appear in the public opinion that Slovenia is poorly exploiting European funds. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the implementation of drawing has been successful, but of course we must never be satisfied and I want us to be even more successful or even more successful in the EU in the future. In the conclusions of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the first two might still go through, while then only a few things are being controlled, something is looking back. I think this is a waste of energy, and I also think, and I am sure that in Slovenia, as in all areas, there is a problem with quality personnel here, and I do not know how this will all work out if we only deal with reviewing something, looking at something, looking at something, looking at something, but not looking forward. So if you can review all these things, without harming the current works, so that you can really get a quality approach to drawing in the future, then there is no problem to be realized back and see, because then you could get good information how it will go on. I wish you a lot of success and a lot of labor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we look at all the data that shows how we have benefited from European funds, that we have missed quite a few opportunities in the past mandate, I hope we can make up for that. This would be particularly necessary because of the period in which we are coming or are in the midst of a major economic and financial crisis and that we are trying to make the best possible use of public services to get into action and do what we can as soon as possible. I have to say, after all, I am a little bit surprised that some people now agree with the Court of Auditors' data, others do not, but this is some basis for data that testifies to the reality of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is right, I agree with all those who say that it is not necessary to pin the blame on one another or another, but together we need to look for solutions so that we can draw as many European funds as possible in the future. However, if we look at the final accounts of the State budget for 2007, it can be concluded that 60% of the planned revenues were realised in the national budget, which means that no revenue of EUR 235 million was realised. And if we somehow pull this together, we see that the European budget has exceeded the funds received from the European budget by €8.7 million. So, dear colleagues, we are returning money to the European Union instead of using it. The lowest realisation, only 25%, is shown in the funds received from the Structural Funds. The Court of Auditors has found that such a small realisation in the area of structural funds is not only due to the dynamics of drawing, which we have been talking about today, but also, in particular, due to inadequate planning based on inadequate assumptions. The European Commission also drew attention to the inadequate planning of the Republic of Slovenia's payments from the European budget, as it estimated the error in the 2007 forecasts in Slovenia to be 101%. This is a huge number and this is the number that we have to think of, and this is the number that is the largest number among all the Member States of the European Union. The average error, so much in knowledge, of all the other Member States of the European Union is 12%. 12% versus 101%, which is true for Slovenia, is worrying data. In this regard, even when we talked about what the Government will do in the future and what it is doing in this area, you could see for yourself that it has already taken certain measures or foreseen certain activities, in particular with regard to better coordination of ministries and agents throughout the system. The government has already set up a so-called coordination group, seeking to strengthen the drawing system, make it more efficient, even more proactive, especially with regard to managing authorities, establish closer cooperation with the resources, find solutions within the budget for financial monitoring of projects and payments, and so on. A few projects are already on paper, so they're already alive. I believe that the minister and her team know what she's doing, and this is reflected in the results they've been preparing or prepared in December, January 2009. Your behaviour is, of course, to say that from December 2008 to January 2009 for cohesion fund projects by the European Commission, a total of 8 million 687 thousand inflows to the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia, 9 applications for payment on the basis of certified expenditure totalling 18 million and so on were submitted to the European Commission in February 2009. There are still many ongoing projects, many of which have been requested at the European Commission's address, which is somehow very good to see and to say hello. I would also like to inform my fellow Member that, when we spoke earlier about Škofja Loka, this project is also inside where a positive final report was already issued by Jaspers in January and could also be listed. I would like to see that the next time we sit in the National Assembly or when we do another analysis - which means and how much we pumped them, we can look more positively in this direction. I must say that the realisation of the funds received from the European Union in the state budget clearly shows that we have been very unsuccessful in this area since 2005. In the area of cohesion policy, implementation was only 31% in 2007, and the worst drawdown from the European Union was in 2008 because Slovenia managed to absorb only 46% of the planned funds in the national budget and therefore the country allocated 64 million euros more to the European Union budget than it did to finance. Of course it's a thing to imagine. I would also point out that there is no institution in Slovenia that fully monitors the European budget inflows and in this case also calls on the government services to take the problem very seriously so that, as I have already said, we will not, in the future, re-sit in the sent-out benches and read the same bad data that we have before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u142	Respectable. I am convinced that the point at which we are discussing how much, how much money, how much money has been drawn from or not by a municipality, does not belong to the National Assembly, but the National Assembly should discuss policy, strategy, how some of the projects the country has set up. I would mark this entire debate today and at the three meetings of the Commission for Budgetary Control and the Commission for Local Self-Government by one of the negotiations they use in the part where I come from, and they've been telling us all year that we have a deficit, and they finally said we have a loss. Meaning, the thing is simple, we are weak in this area, policies that have been set very far back are not implemented in such a way that the results are optimal. It is impossible to understand that the former Minister of Local Self-Government, in four years, could not explain what he was doing there and that he had to write an open letter to Mr President of the Government - for God's sake, how successful he was! And I've seen it on a lot of TV shows, on a lot of rallies, but actually, we're not successful here. This agenda item shall bear the wrong address. We are not talking about drawing on European funds, but we are talking about how successful we are in using what we are spending in the common European budget for the purposes which, under the procedure laid down in the European Union, we can devote to our own infrastructure needs from one, the other, the third, the fifth, I do not know which heading. That's all! And the deception of the Slovenian public has been from the beginning that we 'tows' from this Europe do not know what we draw. Now the young gentleman has said that we are net contributors we were in 2008 and in 2007 and so on into this European budget. The mechanisms allowed us to be more successful than some countries, Portugal, Spain, Greece and so on. We have yet to breathe in the pre-accession strategy, we have been poorly prepared, but if we compare ourselves with those countries at the time of accession and at the time of accession to the European Union, comparisons are catastrophic; and this is simply to be said. I am not in favour of centralisation, but this is the only point that should be taken very seriously in Slovenia and all things from different titles should be guided from one centre. We should have a leader, someone to review. What about the wrong policy of introducing vineyards to keep us 88 million euros, costing us another 70 million euros, and so on. And it is free of charge that some are asking in the National Assembly how an effective system was vignetted and how we did not know what we had cashed. Add to this what we have frozen because of the wrong policy. But that's because the left and right probably didn't know what they were doing. Minister Zhagar tried, almost killing to prove how the minus plus was, on the other hand, his minister from the same party froze 88 million euros. But there's no point in discussing it back. They'll clear that up on one clause because it'll be easy to talk to each other. My wish is, and in these reports there is nowhere to determine what is what would be recommended for today, tomorrow, tomorrow. It is my opinion, because I am not particularly concerned with this, but I am accompanied by colleagues on these committees who are dealing with these issues so that they do not actually impose, also, on ministers without a wallet, to impose all this burden on them, coordination, but all without a wallet. If I had a wallet, I could do something, and I'm just kidding, I know it's without a wallet. [[...]] I believe that it is simple, if we do not pull all these policies together, to appoint a leader, a secretary, I do not know who, however, will have this review so far as things will be transparent, but from calls to projects, to drawing monitoring, to the control of some officials. I agree that a lot of things when people explain why a project does not go through - because of a comma, a dot or something else - are also a matter of chicanous treatment of certain cases. Some things are forced, others are put in drawers. It's a public secret in this country. Everyone knows, but those who are there don't solve it. Just a well-intentioned proposal, because I don't think I'm accusing anyone of anything, nor do I know what, but if there's not a full review, then there won't be any results. I would really like to hear what is now, because in these reports by the Commission on Local Self-Government, I could not see when these infrastructures or motorways would be released, because, if I understand correctly, not only those 88 million euros, but also those already authorised for this infrastructure this year, because they relate to the same problem. So, the point is that until the change in the vignette system or the introduction of vignettes for a shorter period of time - now I will not go into whether it was a historic achievement or it was no credit for the good of the Slovenes and Slovenes, I think it was catastrophic damage. And history will show that some have done great damage. But what does this mean for the release of these 88 million euros and already approved funds, which should be for two serious motorway links in Slovenia on 19 January and 28 January. I understand, like the Brussels messages, that these funds will also be frozen, regardless of their approval until the policy changes in Slovenia. That's what I'd really like you to answer, because there's no such thing in the reports. On the Commission for Local Self-Government, while I was monitoring, the representative of the Ministry of Transport was unable to explain this because she obviously did not have all the data. Finally, I would like to say that if anything, then this point is important for us to be aware that we are not talking about who is to blame, who should do something - and so on, but that all those of us who are in these public services will do everything we can to put the whole thing so organisationally and competently that Slovenia will spend at least the money it spends in the European budget - on the way I talked about earlier, it can come back. I would be happy if there were any more euros, but this is another discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, since you have been mentioned several times, whenever you wish, you can apply for the debate. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Initially, I would like to explain some things because some predecessors even referred to certain facts or things that they did not hold back in the views of the parliamentary groups. Next to Mr. Chernač, although he is not, and I do not have the habit of talking about people or their statements when they are not present, however. At the beginning of November last year, the National Assembly adopted a decree on the composition and competence of working bodies, and under point 10, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the latter in the preceding paragraph, reads, quote, "follows the implementation of the tasks of general management for the purposes of the European Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund arising from the current EU acquis on cohesion policy and," in the last indent, "other matters relating to the area of local self-government, the regional development of European cohesion policy." This is said to have been no abuse or anything like he was trying to frame us for the committee that I am leading, or for members or for most of us in this committee. He further argued that we have abused those who are members of the Commission for Budgetary Control at the same time. We have taken advantage of a procedural or business provision that a certain number of members of the Commission may require the Government to monitor public finances. And so we received in addition to the Court of Auditors' report, which was the occasion, I said this in the introduction to our Group's position, a report from the Government prepared by the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service, and we also received information or a response from the Government with tables weighing several kilograms - unfortunately, they are not processed, with data which together represents an appropriate or at least appropriate or mostly appropriate basis to discuss this important issue, such as the use of European funds. My colleague Jakob Preseknik, unfortunately he is not, has resisted his discussion in determining the difference between me personally, which I have not even had the opportunity to say at all, and Madam Minister - I hope that this will be counted positive to the Minister, not negative or that they will not repeat such a scene and events as in the previous term when the Minister arrived or, if I spoke to him on an official or private basis, he always had the guardian's angel because they were obviously afraid to infect him. Well, that's over. I would like to return to the starting point: the problem of using European funds is the problem between the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia. Only then will this problem arise in the next step between the European Union budget and the Slovenian budget, although it is not fully reflected in the Slovenian budget. Of course, Mr Vizjak also spoke about certain matters as President of the Commission, which is indeed responsible for the supervision of public finances, and from this point of view on the Court of Auditors' report on the issue of drawing or how this is seen in the final accounts of the State budget, in particular 2007, could be concluded or proposed by a number of measures, and the Commission did not wish to do so. Basically, I reject anything that concerns me personally, any attempt to accuse or find culprits for a situation like this. The fact is that this is a problem between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union; that the responsibility of the Government, the ministries, the services and others involved is, of course, evident, but the decision to discuss this issue in plenary at this time is more than good, I am deeply convinced, and necessary, because of the weakness of not saying mistakes, from the past, but not only at the expense of the past government, it is still necessary, if discovered, to do so. In all the presentations on the Commissions or the Committee and the Commission, today's debates try to show or blur the actual situation by some distance from the original problem. However, the Court of Auditors has focused the purpose of its audit solely on the issue of transparency - the recording of both inflows and outflows. The Court of Auditors did not interfere with the efficiency of drawing and prudence. This, I hope he comes again, and then we'll obviously have worse regrets. Of course, if we go to the question of transparency in the presentation of received and paid, we are immediately faced with the problem of planning and recording, both of which, according to the Court of Auditors, we need to attract them, cannot be reconciled with these findings, because they are fundamentally clear, the problem. In 2006, as the last year of the previous perspective, we planned, "we" is not a good statement. The government has offered us a budget, and we have accepted it - the National Assembly - regardless of whether it will be spent or possible to obtain 450 million. We managed to get the good 348, we paid the bad 288, we had plus 60.5 million from the point of view or position of the state budget. We do not even have other data for the other two positions to be identified. In 2007, the government also planned, and the National Assembly, of course, confirmed that it would be 582 million. There were 347 received, the difference was 235. That's a fact! Why was planning at such a level in the first year when it was actually possible to benefit from the past perspective and from the new perspective and on what basis was this planned? We don't know that! This is what we demand and expect in the proposal for conclusions that the Government or the relevant authorities find that this error or weakness, or however we wrap it in any cellophane, would no longer be repeated. I don't want to paralyze and talk about joints and concoctions and things like that, but let's at least look at something. Someone is trying to reach the Slovenian public and in the National Assembly in some way, forgive the expression, "rape us" by finding that it has been good in the past and that this needs to be maintained. Yeah, well, look at this, it's good already in 2008, I don't want to repeat the numbers that were today, what happened is that it's no longer the difference between the 235 planned and realized, but it's already 420 million euros of course. And then there's this "through the finger" conclusion based on the proposed balance in which the government says it's lowering expectations. The only responsible, the only right! Not what was done in the last two rebalancings for the 2008 and 2007 budgets, when the planned funds rose, that the situation worsened, that the difference between the budgeted or received and what was planned was even greater. Today there were some very logical conclusions that I have not heard before in the National Assembly. I'm not going to repeat them, but it's also a game, or it would be a well-known debate on the closing account - what if it wasn't for the minus 235 million. Everyone can figure it out! Own participation is generally between 16% and 17%. This means 21% of EU funding. If you calculate 235 million 21%, you get a little less than 50 million. This should be ensured at both levels in 2007, at local and national level. Since no one wants to tell you this key, at least it is not in the fabric - despite the requirements - it should be provided from its own resources; part of the state budget is certain. Then the conclusions in the State budget, no matter how it was adopted and how it was adopted, would be significantly different. But we will not say that this is at the level of speculation, they can think that this is at the level of speculation, as we can say that the 582 million euro plan is speculation in 2007. I'm not saying it myself. I'm not saying it. There is no justification for the Court of Auditors finding that recording in the final accounts of the State budget is not appropriate in 2007. That's not the first conclusion. Some reports from the Court of Auditors need to be read back, and this finding is repeated from year to year. Again, on the level of speculation! Obviously, it was fitting for someone to have no separate presentation, especially in 2007, when incomes had to be presented separately from the previous financial perspective and current revenues, or, if you would like, new financial perspectives. Then everyone would see, whether or not it counts that that reality in 2007 is below 10% - I will not literally, but in any case it is below 10%. This is said to be a problem of planning, it is a problem of recording, and it is not possible to politicise it. These are facts that need to be accepted and addressed as soon as possible. There is no one today - those who are trying to see some conspiracy here to determine the problem. I must disappoint them that I do not see any plots and I would not want to participate in them, but I am seriously concerned that there will be no improvement. I don't want the Minister with the team to blame me, I don't expect, except for this partial reduction in the balance, I don't know how positive progress is this year, because I know that there is no tool to sift through projects for which the conclusions signed, for which the contracts are signed, and that there will be a whole bunch of problems. Why? Some people said everything was okay. from the period until the end of 2006. In the balance that was published in the materials, these kilograms that we got, there are projects that are still impossible to build today. For them, there are signed conclusions, they have contracts signed for them, but we do not meet the basic condition, which someone has already talked about here today so that I can get for it, I will make it very simple, a building permit. So there won't be any tampering. This goes back even further than the previous governments. Or: responsibility goes back, in particular for some projects in tourism and for some things there are poorly absorbed as well in the field of state infrastructure, because sometimes there is a mix of concepts. I have been alone since I convened the first session and placed this item on the agenda with a strong conviction that this is absolutely necessary, especially because this has not been done by the Commission to control the budget and because we had to wait for the government service to be able to gather data. I have to apologize here in some way that the minister won't think she's going after her personally and her coworkers. The fact is, what the Court of Auditors has already found is that there is no systematic organised database where we can look at the situation at any moment. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Therefore, the methodological material is not uniform. [[...]] Very interesting, perhaps there are some who see the conspiracy at today’s point and conclusions and the desire for change. These conclusions that we are proposing are nothing more than our deep conviction as instruments to improve the situation. Let those who are afraid of re-examination -- that reminds me of students or students before evaluation. Everyone is afraid of questions, tests, school assignments or exams - the rules of who: those who are not ready! Those who are prepared at least solidly do not "fear" checks - under the nickname. I don't see why it would take fears to check some decisions from the past. In particular for those whom we know by place and title of the project that it is not possible to build, it is inside; those who abuse the project titles; those who are in conflict with the existing regional development programmes and would list many more. Today, I wanted to illustrate, and I had some bad luck, and on the next occasion, I will be a "political map" under the direction of the Republic of Slovenia. When I talk about the political map, I am talking about municipalities and statistical regions where the number of decisions, the number of contracts, the value of decisions and the value of contracts should be projected. Then it is necessary to place this higher - what colleague Perne was talking about - indexes through which to numerically show the degree of development will come to interesting results! I won't talk about the results until the material is fully made and verified. In any case, I can guarantee you that the results of the force are interesting. You can do it in part without a computer, even if you're just browsing something. And I believe that some are afraid of this and that's why they're trying to proceed with the discredits. I'm not afraid of anything, I just want these about five billion euros from the new financial perspective to be exhausted, or, rather, to be used in such a way that Slovenians and Slovenians can live better. This is one of the few financial resources that is practically guaranteed, irrespective of the near future that lies ahead because of such or other crisis. It is true, however - it has been a bit of a caricature and a little bit of the potential of colleague Anderlič - that so far it is only Slovenian money, although it has to be fair that we were strictly mathematically all until last year we were recipients, if we are looking at the matter completely in the third position when it comes to the relationship between the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia, because relations are or positions are three: the budget - the European against the Slovenian budget is one position; then those who are out-of-budget recipients - are on the Slovenian side the second position; and the third position is whole or all; but each position is only to know, know and understand that they can understand the whole problem and also have the whole review. And there's a lot more to say. Of course, it is necessary to give colleagues some time, I apologize, but nevertheless: I am much more afraid of the moment when the Court of Auditors or someone else will be, God forbid that the Slovenian Court of Auditors, rather than someone from abroad, will determine the efficiency and the usefulness of the use of the funds we receive from the European budget, should they be mostly Slovenian or any other at this time. At that time we will be much more embarrassed and then we will not argue that there is a table in every Slovenian village talking about co-financing of any overlays of any public roads to the cemetery - literally to the cemetery - that there will be no transfer of anything about the cemetery and the return. Indeed, this is also evident through the projection of conclusions and contracts, that there is a relatively large amount of funding also for so-called overlays of public roads without knowing how much this brings to general development. Not that - it may be too demanding - but to see if there is such a basis under this long-lasting asphalt that it can even be overlaid. That's what they're gonna ask us. In neighboring countries, they looked at it, not only asked, and a number of congregations went bankrupt abroad. I don't want to, but I'm afraid there's a good chance that something like this will happen to us. I remember or I'm trying to wake up a warning to the former minister a few months ago, but he rejected me, even though we had a very good relationship on a personal level: "Yes, what, that's not the problem, we signed a letter of trust!" The letter of confidence, forgive me, but Balkan customs and customs do not go together on European standards and in the European cultural framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, were you mentioned? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! Well, mate Trofenik can't get out of his skin, I don't know what he's so burdened with. But the manipulation or abuse that has taken place is without comparison, without chance. The debate is based on the Court of Auditors' report. The debate began on 12 January at your request at the extraordinary session of the Commission for Budgetary Control, then you requested additional materials and when you received them and when you saw that they were not favourable to you or that they did not attach to your findings, colleague Trofenik called on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development 22.1. and drew this meeting with numerous interruptions by 11 February. A meeting of the Commission on Budgetary Control was then concluded, a report was considered, conclusions adopted - none of which are at this meeting today. It's an abuse, an abuse of Parliament! Today, too, procedurally, this point does not meet the conditions for discussion. At least the Minister of Finance, Mr Gaspari, the Minister for Development, who is in fact the boss and why we are discussing all of this because he wants us to have a hand over these means that we are honest; as he wants to have a hand over the SID bank, where 5 out of 7 or 9 will be appointed to the Supervisory Board; Mr Lahovnik, Minister of Economy; Mr Svetlik, because we have a set of resources from this source that we are discussing today. In short, half of the government, including the President, should be sitting here today to meet the procedural conditions for dealing with this point. Only the Minister for Regional Development is sitting, from an area that has been proven in the past period one of the more successful in terms of the use of European funds. These are the facts that are written in the documents we have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u147	Mr. Chernač, please consider whether what you are talking about is an explanation that you are obliged to give in the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u148	Excuse me, Mr. Trophynik has been talking about this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u149	These are accusations of why this item is listed on the agenda. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u150	Mr Trofenik spoke of me manipulating the data, why we are not considering the Commission's monitoring report, since the Commission for Local Self-Government is the only one responsible for discussing this matter. We know what the rules of procedure say, and we also know how things went. But it's not the only manipulation. As you manipulated the data at the end of the 2007 accounts, including the Court of Auditors' report, you are manipulating this same report several times today in this debate. It surprises me, however, that even Mr Trophynik himself came to the conclusion of the debate and said that we were not net payers in 2007. Sam said that all three accounts should be viewed, which is written on pages 28 to 30 of the Court of Auditors’ report, not on these three pages, two or one third. You need a minute to read this. So I ask you, Mr Trophynik, not to mention my name in vain, especially when I am not present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u151	Mr. Cernač, I find you have repeatedly violated the rules of procedure. You didn't explain what you'd be obliged to say, you went too far, and you ignored my warnings. I know this is difficult, but please, let's be disciplined under the rules of procedure, too. Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenik, he has the floor as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u152	I won't go around myself and break the rules of procedure. Mr Černač - if he were in the hall, I would hear - we would advise him to read the magnetogram, as well as that part of the magnetogram, when I was the only one to say three positions for the net - today, here in the National Assembly - for 2007. However, it was only because the government and the ministry could not service the data on time. Two reports we received - not only the Court of Auditors, this is only a reason - and look at the materials, and you will certainly avoid the conclusions you have just stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I hope that we will continue the debate. Ms Minister responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Mag. Gold Platesteiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u154	In the debate that took place, several questions were raised and, in fact, in my role as acting, I am, of course, acting as Minister responsible for the field of local self-government and regional development. But I also speak as the Minister responsible for the governance body, as the body that we have as a decision-making body in terms of the implementation of cohesion policy and the management of cohesion policy funds. In the debates, the debaters touched on a number of issues, problems, in fact, problems with both areas, which I am covering in this area alone, which I am leading. Since I will still have the opportunity to speak in the future, I would now like to answer only a few questions raised, and I would also like to provide some specific clarifications so that we can better explain the situation that we have. First of all, I would like to point out that not only am I in charge of this area, but the Government is also aware of the importance of this area. As a result, it also immediately focused on it: both the form of a dedicated thematic meeting, as well as on the basis of the prepared materials and conclusions we have adopted in order to improve the situation in this area. But it's not just the conclusions, I think it's too much of a fear that the change of government will stop the activity. Therefore, I would also like to briefly explain that, since the change in government, the activities have continued and, of course, have been running in frameworks that allow this to happen. We also know that activities are taking place simultaneously in the direction of the budget's rebalancing, which is also extremely important in terms of drawing on European funds. In doing so, I would also point out that proper planning in the field of the use and use of European funds is, of course, not only something that the Court of Auditors is committed to, not only something that the European Commission is reminding us of, but also something that the debaters here have been alerting us to. For this reason, I also believe that we have to make the maximum effort here to plan both budgetary spending and, of course, the very course, the course of calls and projects in such a way that we can budgetaryly grant them, that we will at the same time provide support to the European Commission in the planning of its annual budgets, and at the same time we can also provide adequate financial support for the implementation of projects, because we know that excessive deviations in budget planning also present difficulties for operators who then have to wait and suffer the transfer of funds from one year to the next year, which also makes project implementation more difficult. As a result, the Government has not reduced its resources because it would have considered or would have intended to take the resources of this area, but by doing so it has in fact set up some more realistic frameworks, of course, in the light of the awareness and also in the light of the decision taken to redistribute funds between the year within the budgetary users, allowing us to also allocate resources to those measures and guidelines that will be able to ensure faster pumping or where the need for funds will be greater. On the other hand, we can then increase the volume of European funds during the year, if activities so require. I would also like to explain what has happened during this period. In addition to what is reflected in the government’s own conclusions, the government has three priorities. One of these guidelines is also the publication of calls as quickly as possible, especially those that respond to the crisis. At the same time, what you have also pointed out is an extremely important priority: reducing administrative burdens, optimizing the pumping system, more unifying processes, processes in this area. We pay great attention to this and also draw practical implementation solutions. The third orientation is also aimed at reducing this gap, which is also pointed out by today's meetings; it is said that between payments and receipts, they have been reimbursed to the Slovenian budget. We need to be aware, it can pose a particularly serious problem in a situation where, due to the crisis and also the consequences of the crisis on public finances, Slovenia can also find itself. During this period, if I only mention briefly and quickly fly over, what was very important was the increase in the volume of funds just for the needs related to the resolution of the crisis; it is said that in December the Government committed an additional 16 million euros to which companies could apply and draw them. At the same time, a call for strategic research projects worth EUR 25 million for businesses was also launched. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been approved and 5 programmes have been launched with a total value of €46 million. For areas that are also relevant to subsidisation, self-employment, job promotion for shorter working hours, promotion of employment for more difficult people and training for employees. At other ministries participating in this operational programme of human resources, good 100 new contracts were signed at this time, in different areas: from the school system, through young researchers, to health information, reduction of administrative barriers to public administration operations and so on. A new major project to be approved totalling € 144 million has also been sent to Brussels to confirm the Commission. Four new €30 million contracts have been concluded in the area of the environment. At the same time, 8 new public contracts were confirmed, of which 5 for transport. In January, however, calls from Goal 3 for all our border programmes, which are also covered by the government service as the management body, were also published. In addition, they are now in preparation and will come and you can already read in the media, they have already been announced, three calls at the Ministry of the Economy, namely for development and investment projects, purchase of new technology equipment and guarantees for bank credits. These are all areas that are extremely important at these times, especially for our economy. In the area of human resources development, there are 9 new public calls and 8 new projects, totalling around €65 million. So far away, we should feel like it's all standing. We're working extremely actively. It is true, however, that neither myself nor my ministry may be sufficiently devoted to pyar because we are more dedicated to our work ourselves, and of course this information would be worth improving in the future. On the other hand, we are very intensive in our work, which in the field of simplifying procedures, which the debaters themselves have pointed out as a problem. The solutions that have already been found and at the same time are already in the proposal for a new law on the implementation of the budget, the introduction of prepayments - I think it is an extremely necessary and important measure, because you have also pointed out here the difficulties that project operators have with the provision of their own resources. Prepayments will be made available both to the public sector, to the non-governmental sector and to the private sector, of course to everyone on their own terms, and this will make it significantly easier for them to launch and implement projects. At the same time, we are also introducing a short-term 30-day deadline for investment projects, which will also facilitate the situation in terms of fund-raising, and the possibility of paying one day before the maturity of the obligation in the event of investment transfers, which will also help municipalities in particular, that this burden of borrowing resources will no longer be a problem and that is the appropriate solution that we have sought and found. At the same time, we also introduce the possibility of introducing flat-rate payments, which will make it significantly easier to prove the costs in the part that relates to some minor, minor costs. Many times this has also made the control process very difficult, prolonging it, which will then only improve the administration and support of projects in this respect. At the same time, we are carrying out standardisation of evidence in the implementation of payments, in order to simplify these administrative processes and at the same time to facilitate the work of project operators. At the same time, the managing authority, despite all the warnings, will be very conscientious and will continue to closely monitor developments in this area in the future. Even in the event of deviations from the planned implementations, it will take appropriate action, which is also given to it by the Government's conclusions, to this end, attracting, to the extent necessary, the Government as well, only to confirm these decisions as the most responsible authority. At the same time, the measures we are implementing to reduce the gap between the payments received from the European Union and our payments are also in the implementation phase. There is already a proposal for a regulation in the Government that will allow the implementation of controls to be rationalised and thus reduce those administrative procedures that have now made it to a certain extent or to a large extent difficult to issue requests for relations with the European Union and thereby have made our net payment situation worse. At the same time, I must say what the co-debater has pointed out, the information system needs special attention, care, upgrades. We are putting special efforts into this, not only from the point of view of co-ordinating the administrative processes themselves of implementing the projects and implementing the cohesion policy itself, but also from the point of view of being able to provide that analytical support for the implementation of the cohesion policy that we urgently need. And here, with accelerated activities, we are also improving the situation. At the same time, we have also addressed the problem raised here by the operators, which is that we are improving the public tendering system, so that we also allow potential applicants the right conditions and time to prepare projects according to their needs and interests. At the same time, the service is already in separate areas, depending on the needs and dynamics of drawing, already carrying out certain evaluation of individual priority orientations, with the objective of getting an additional external input, in what way and how the experience gained during this period through the implementation of projects on individual priorities can be used to ensure that future calls can be better, better and that calls can achieve as much as possible those objectives that we have set ourselves in operational programmes. In particular, I was asked a question about highways. It's not a public secret that the problems are vignettes and highways. We know that the commission has warned us about this. The government is looking for a solution. The solutions are just being handled in the government. And I would leave it to the district minister to introduce these solutions, because I feel the same way. Of course, solutions are sought in the direction that the Government is aware of the links between the two issues and that it is in the interest of the Government to ensure that there is ongoing pumping and the possibility of implementing projects in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good day - or, yes, it is still a good day, after a coastal evening would be good for all present, especially the minister and her colleagues. This would begin as I have heard this morning a very clever thought: that everything we are talking about today and what the previous and previous government has been doing, and also what the current government is doing or what the current government is doing with regard to the use of European funds, is only a matter of whether these funds will be used to the benefit of this country, citizens or citizens: whether the economy and the usefulness of the use of these funds will be that right. There is no point in getting hundreds of millions and billions of European funds into the country if the funds are used for pointless investments, for investments that will not give new jobs, or improve living conditions in the environment, or make it possible for our young, our descendants to have better education conditions. But speaking of drawing on these funds - I have previously found on some blog that pumping has recently been the most frequently used word in Slovenia, we should ask what this word means to us in a simple Slovenian language. Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in one, the other, the third, or the fifth, prepares an invitation to tender for the basic operational programme and then receives applications and does not even get all applications, but does only make a call that, say 10%, 15%, 20%, 30% exceeds the planned funding from the European Union over a certain period of time for example 2007-2009, does this mean that the effect of these calls is such that we spend more resources than we will - or at least the same resources - as we will spend each year in the European budget? And here it is already in the Court of Auditors' report, which does not say exactly everything; that is, it does not say that it is part of the resources that the European Union points to in the State budget and also other users that have not even been registered and that the Court of Auditors for 2007 has only had to seek information, just to find data with the European Commission, how much data was actually past the state budget for the fiscal development funds to the various private users. So, what does that mean? This means that we are in these total amounts, which are now being referred to as one, that more funds have been paid to the European Union than they have been received, while others say that fewer funds have been paid, that we were net users, not net payers, if it were not outside of those funds obtained from the tenders, the funds received from the Slovenian budget directly from the European Union - but this is almost 95 million euros which Slovenia received in 2007 alone and only because of the need for the establishment of the Schengen border. So these are the funds that Slovenia would not have received if it had not established the Schengen border. So these funds, if they were really right and fair, would have to be subtracted from the whole sum and then there would not be 31 million surpluses, as we call it, but 60 million deficits again. Which is irrelevant. It doesn't matter - why? - because in 2008, when data were first published in the media on what the result of European funds was by the end of August 2008, it was very optimistic that, despite the fact that by the end of August, we had absorbed only 28% of all planned funds - it is said, instead of 783 million, we would have absorbed only 218 million euros - that we would have absorbed the remaining 500 million and so many millions by the end of the year in four months. Of course, the miracle didn't happen. And now we have data, very clear, very clear, I think that no one can doubt that in this time we have increased, very well, from 28% to 46; it is said, almost 100% more we have gained, than it was in August. So, in eight months, half of what we realized by the end of the year is still only 46% or 47%. So the school that we have given over the past two years through 2007 and 2008 must be the lead for this government not to do so. That it is nice and right to set up plans ambitiously, but these plans must be at least so realistic, at least so feasible that at the end of the year we will not beat each other on the head and listen to the universal Slovenia and the European Union Commission - because watch out, I think that within Slovenia we can make a deal, and we will encourage each other and say, let us make some further changes and repairs, so that we can be better. However, when the European Union criticises us that we do not even know how to plan, let alone what we have planned be realized, then of course we must ask ourselves what is wrong with us. I do not think we need again and again warnings from Brussels that it is time for us to start reminding Brussels, but not the other way around. Let's say in the law on coexistence with genetically modified organisms, we say to Brussels that we will not do what you want because we think we are right. But it's not that we have to bend our heads every time and pay the penalty for doing this, one or the other wrong, because we're being scolded. There's something else I'd like to say here. When you propose conclusions, colleagues and colleagues who are supposed to completely change the text of the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, I must say that at least what is rude is that you are making a fool of us. We can't talk about numbers, how good we were when we made the invitations. We can't talk about this. How brilliant we were when we reached 120% of the planned funds in the tenders. But let's not say that we did this because, let's say, we did it together in regional development last year, because last year we pumped it all together for structural policy 12.36%. And then someone here explains to me how very successful we have been because we have absorbed 67% of these 67% three million in structural policy in the funds we received, but does not say that this 67% is three million and that the 6 and a half percent that we have absorbed from the European Regional Development Fund represent 21 million instead of 325. This is called mockery, not only from us, Members and Members of the National Assembly, but from the whole of Slovenia and from all citizens and citizens. Tell me everything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u157	Mrs. Pecanova [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u158	Why only the first half? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u159	Mrs Pečanova, there is still a general debate, not on the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u160	No, no, I was talking about the debate that was here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u161	You were talking about a proposal for conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u162	Okay. But I think in the general debate I can also say what was said in the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u163	I'm afraid there's gonna be another controversy that doesn't belong to this part, so I warned you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. But in the debate there were also such numbers. I think some of the numbers went to the cents exactly, but only the numbers that went to the debater after the year. Those numbers, which would tell the whole truth, were, of course, forgotten. In particular, let's say that over 64 million and a half more funds have been paid into the European budget than they were recovered, of course someone will say - the argument: oh, where! This is not true at all, because no one takes into account the funds received, for example, directly from the European budget, the Slovenian economy in its economic projects. Okay, okay, but let's say these numbers once and for all, straight and clean. Not that we hear October 2008 that we are the most successful new member of the European Union in drawing on European funds, but then we hear that we have absorbed 46% of them in 2008. And for this reason, please do not give us any advice to let the government follow the good trend that was set in 2007 and 2008, because otherwise someone will use it on a humorous evening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad we're so different. However, I personally support the amendment to the proposal for a decision on the drawing-up of European funds in Slovenia, as it points out the facts that are real and we have verified them ourselves. The hysteria and all the political propaganda surrounding the hypotheses that Slovenia should not take full advantage of the possibility of drawing on European funds is clearly once again a means to counter the old and the new authorities, and we do not like that. I'd rather rely on facts, verified data. Some of them, of course, would not agree with them, because today it rained percentages, millions, amounts used, unexploited, hypothetically exploited and so on, but nevertheless. The signing of a trust agreement for the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund is an important recognition that Slovenia has the appropriate mechanisms to control the use of EU funds. The new 2007-2013 programming period is quite successful. 4.2 billion euros in cohesion policy have been negotiated, representing a 3.5-fold increase compared to the previous period. Some projects have already been completed or are being concluded and payments are also being made intensively. If we look across Slovenia, there is almost no municipality where at least one of the projects co-financed by the EU would not be implemented. However, if some are actually lagging behind in drawing, the reasons may be completely different and not in the misappropriation system. Slovenia does not face any loss of funds in the current implementation of the new financial perspective, at least until 2010. The Commissioner responsible for regional policy, Danuta Hubner, said at a press conference last year that Slovenia was extremely successful in drawing on European funds. So what's this? Who's lying? Is the Commissioner lying, or is he lying to our Court of Auditors, or is he a new authority? Certainly it is some kind of dirty propaganda, and I believe that excessive statements about the poor use of European funds are misleading and unrealistic. I'm more interested in who puts such information in the public eye. I am sure that Slovenia does not need any systemic changes at this time, major changes in the area of EU funding. However, I agree with what Mrs Minister said a little earlier, but I do not argue that there is no need to monitor, implement and address shortcomings, improve the system and simplify procedures, because only through implementation do weaknesses and opportunities for optimizing the whole thing appear. Above all, the responsibility lies with our institutions, departments and relevant services, and they must carry out their work in a responsible manner, and only the competent authorities are responsible for the procedures and preparation of projects. I am also referring to the larger projects contained in the resolution on national development projects 2007-2023. Many things have been said by the Minister and hope that things will go even better. I believe her because as far as I know, all the guarantees for your successful work have already convinced us somewhere. And if I am already in charge of responsible institutions and services, I would invite you to visit Prekmurje to visit the mayors of our smaller municipalities in Goričkem, Prekmurje. During the pre-election period, the promise of public tendering aid, simplified procedures, for assistance in the preparation of projects continued to rain. Unfortunately, so far, none of this has happened. If you are in love, you will come to talk with affected citizens, with affected municipalities, mayors, bring at least some water with you, because we do not have water in the middle of a developed Europe, in the middle of a developed Slovenia. Because the project of the pomura water pipeline has been standing for years because of these complicated procedures, and it appears that this programme perspective will pass sooner than we will reach this pipeline. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor. It's not. The word is no, Mr. Victory Jelinčič. Mr. Miran Jerich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members. Once again, I have confirmed that politics is possible art. On the one hand, there are Members or Members who claim that in 2007 there was a surplus in the national budget and that the use of European money was excellent, on the other hand we are Members or Members who claim that there was no surplus in the national budget in 2007 and that the use or use of European money is not the best. And, of course, we also rely on reports or opinions from the Court of Auditors, and on independent institutions, we are in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and I have always given something and respect their decisions or decisions. Much has been said in the debate itself about drawing on European funds. I'd like to touch a few areas myself. One is an area that has been highly praised. This is the area under the Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions. I would also point out to those who, in some way, as reasons for poor use, point out that a national strategic reference framework and individual operational programmes for each area were approved only in June 2007 and some later, from August to November. This must have been an obstacle to the use of European money in 2007. On the other hand, I would like to highlight the operational programme from the development priorities of the regions, how, in my opinion, these calls have been prepared - technically poorly prepared - otherwise, the criteria have changed and the time dynamics incorporated into these calls have changed. Look what's been going on. The tender published in 2007 was 1. 6. 2007 Date for submission of applications 26. 6. 2007 The opening of applications was carried out 2. Seven. 2007 We have received a decision from the Government Office for Local Policy and Regional Development on the granting of funds 29. 8. 2007 Treaty adopted by 27. 9. The deadline for issuing applications for investments launched in 2007 was 30. 9. and 30. 9. immediate control of the purposeful use of funds and so on. Now tell me in what way was it possible to respect the law on public procurement and properly withdraw the call from the operational programme of the regions? I come from the congregation, which we have successfully prepared and implemented four projects in this area. We were fortunate to have continued one project in 2007 on the basis of Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the project was prepared and upgraded with European money. It was similar in 2008. What hurts me the most: the criteria changed in the meantime. First of all, it was the basic criterion that only projects above EUR 600,000 should be taken into account. It happened to me that there was a lot of projects that were much lower and that were not, at least according to my data, and I hope that this will in some way show that the revision was not even placed in the regional development programmes, in the implementation parts, nor were they adequately prepared. Why did I say this timer? What my predecessors said was yes. The DIPs that have been ready to implement these projects are not enough to successfully implement these projects and to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. And I would like to see in future more deliberate calls, a timeline such as the one that projects will be prepared and implemented in line with the expectations of all of us, in order to accelerate development and reduce regional development differences in some way by means of European money. So much for history or 2007. What I lacked in addressing this item on the agenda was what the Minister said in her last performance, too, what had been done in this recent time, in order to speed up the flow of European money and so on. I agree with all these conclusions, both by simplifying the preparation of projects themselves and by establishing a transparent information system on monitoring reporting and so on. I think that if we take these measures, the future use of European money will be the same as it was. Now that you say it was done very well. Look, just one operational program, environmental, waste management. By 2009, Slovenia should build both the first-class regional centres and the second-class regional centres, and we have only one regional centre. Under the operational waste management programme, investments have also been introduced into the operational programme for the use of European money for environmental investments. Too little has been done in these areas, whether we admit it or not. I believe that through these measures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will achieve this and that we will achieve the goals that Slovenia has set itself in some way and communicated them to the European Commission, which has adopted both the national reference framework and the individual operational programmes. If we have not been realistic in planning, let us now correct this and be realistic in the planning of individual projects, in the execution of calls and in the implementation of individual operational programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u170	Good evening! One of the Members went to sharpen himself, and I should probably have, too, that when we vote tomorrow, I think, what awaits us all. And our hair will go up, because the final bill will happen again, but that is not the point. But to prevent such an act, I would say: The Court of Auditors is wrong. There was no SLS and SDS protectionism. There were no long-term lecturers on the parental committee who were not even members of the parental committee, and so on - but this is an insurmountable start. I would say that I fully support the performance by my colleague Damian Pernet and also by Mr Willi Trofenik. But I would point out the following, what we've been finding all along, and this is what we need to talk about today and change things to make things run smoothly enough. We note that it was too slow to issue public tenders. Look, target three, the Minister has already mentioned it today. From the start of the call to the selection of the project and the signing of the contract, it will be almost one year and the use of the funds will be in 2010, three years after the adoption of the programme. I therefore propose a measure, which is that it is essential to accelerate the development of calls for proposals in all areas. Furthermore, the great problem in the tenders is also own resources, we have also talked about this, the state, the local community and so on. This is where the government is preparing help. The next, which is always expressed as problems - many calls are so difficult. I know the invitations to tender in Italy: three steps are taken, three months are resolved, and the funds are coming, the investments are flowing. But with us, I'm asking if we've made all these bureaucratic deals of our own. However, matters are so difficult that using them is also so bad. Farmers and small craftsmen also do not have this apparatus, so they hire private people who prepare material for their fat money and there is no guarantee that they will receive it. This is particularly problematic in the area of agriculture and there is, I think, about 800 million more resources that we will not be able to make use of because of such mistakes. Big projects - this has already been mentioned today. See, the only big project that "was going through" is the INPRIME project, the so-called "Innovation Breakthrough of Primorska", in Goriškem, three companies received quite a lot of funds, everything else remained on paper. I propose that the Government or the Ministry re-examine all these projects under the Resolution on National Development Programmes for the period 2007-2023 and bring to life at least those which are current from 2009 to 2013. In order to make it faster and easier to obtain funds from the State quota and the quota of European Union funds, the following concrete measures should enable the development of public tenders: remove all criteria which discriminate against natural and legal entities in public calls from developed regions. Today a developed or underdeveloped region - there is little difference. And if a developed region, such as INPRIME, can come up with European funds, why would they be prevented from doing so? Furthermore, the 2007 rating of business entities is taken into account when applying for public tenders, not in 2008. Furthermore, by the callers, these are TIAs, JAPTIs, Slovenian Enterprise Funds and the like, the establishment of a technical-administrative group which, in addition to administrative work, would be necessary to take care of the latest content of the tender applications; this service urgently needs an environment. Public-private partnership, public procurement cannot be dealt with in the same public tender. We are now combining small projects to reach a larger number of points. These projects are not always compatible. The problem is the participation of the congregations; today it has already been said, we have no provinces and so on. That's how you have to think about how and what. And the timing of the public and private part of the investment is very difficult to implement within the prescribed deadlines and calls for proposals. We believe that the transparent and fair preparation of calls for tenders for the target groups to which the call for tenders is intended is also very important. An example of a poorly prepared public tender is co-financing the start-up of companies in technology parks and incubators. If an entity cooperates with an international knowledge institution, it shall not receive any points. That's criminal. And what we always repeat at the mayors' meetings: municipal spatial plans, public procurement, the fight with the Agricultural Land Fund and so on, these are the Cokes that prevent European funds from being drawn. This is not a matter for the Minister; because it has been said that the situation in this area is static and so on, I would say review the review we have received. It is a good two months of the Ministry's work that this is one of the most demanding ministries and what it actually looks like: success is not a success. If we get the funds and the investment or the program is done, then it's clear that success is here. It's very, very measurable. A lot more than justice, and I don't know where else. That is why I wish the Minister a great deal of success, and I am once again starting to do so - I am afraid of what the vote will be tomorrow. How much pushing someone is going to hurt someone, and it doesn't do anyone any good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs. Žerjav has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it's a little fast, but okay. So Slovenia was one of the first Member States whose programmes were adopted. Today we have a good start to the new programming period. I can also say that the conformity assessment is precisely the description of the system by which the Member State, in addition to the advance payment, has to start paying in fact, the assessment of compliance for Slovenia with the environmental and transport infrastructures adopted in March 2008, which also shows a good start to the new programming period. In addition, Slovenia was one of the two Member States with which we signed the Treaty of Trust in February 2008. This means that we have checked and tested the Slovenian audit system, which has given us sufficient assurance that Slovenia is dealing with the audit itself. Slovenia is also one of those Member States that has developed good administrative capacity over the years. Of course, there is a need to invest continuously in administrative capacity to train individuals, as people employed in public administration are likely to receive better job offers in the private sector. As for Slovenia and its administrative capacity to implement cohesion policy funds, we believe that this is only quality and I hope that this will be the case in the future. With regard to the programming period 2004-2006, which is in the completion phase, as you know, by the end of this year, most of the funding must be invested. Let me say that Slovenia has spent 95% of the European Regional Development Fund and the remaining 5% can be paid after the programme is concluded. For the remaining funds, Slovenia spent 90% of its funds. In fact, I quoted the Commissioner responsible for regional policy from her press conference on 11 November last year. She also said that Slovenia was a good student; the new programming period is very ambitious in terms of its contribution to innovation and competitiveness. Slovenia is one of the most advanced new members of the European Union in terms of existing infrastructure. That's what she said. Otherwise, as far as the new financial perspective is concerned, 2007 - 2013 would say that more than one billion and a half euros of projects, more than three times the number of available funds, as was the case between 2004 and 2006. Realised up to, I'll say, handovers with the new government were about 300 million euros worth of payments, fifty million applications made. So much was done until the handover, which was done after the handover, we heard something today. I am pleased that in such a short period of time it has been possible to prepare so many ambitious and important projects, and this inspires me with the hope that this pumping will be much better in the future than it was in a government that obviously could not do it. I expect, of course, that the Government will be able to implement these ambitious plans set by the previous knowledge. I've said it a few times, and this time I'm going to say, "Thank God we got a new government. Really, great, in short, because the old one sucked anyway." And there's something else about traffic. There is a lot of talk about vignettes, which are supposed to be a reason to stop it from being able to pump around €88 million for the Drazenci-Slivnica project. Let me say here, you will all remember well that the Commissioner in Slovenia has publicly stated that he agrees with the system of vignettes, such as it is, for a temporary period. That was a public statement. He replaced the Commissioner, the Italian came and changed his position on the problem. That's just a fact, and we have to accept that. However, I would like to say that if we are already talking like this, we could change or at least predict a change in this area. It was said at the time, and I advised my successor well - intentionedly to make a change, and that would be enough to change these funds. In addition, I am proud that the project is one of the first major projects in Lendava-Pince, and here you are not right, in short, the Lendava-Pince motorway section is one of the first three EU projects, which was supported by - large projects, €40 million. It's true, we have problems on the railways. At the time of my takeover, I saw this, and I personally made an extraordinary commitment in order to improve matters in this area. The problem is mainly in the preparation of projects. In this one-year ministry, I found that the problem is systemic. In short, the resources that are in Maribor are simply not capable of preparing these projects quickly enough. My advice to the Minister was that as soon as possible in this area, I am talking about the railway and the preparation of projects, the matter needs to be changed systematically, perhaps going in the direction of the Dars or something like that. We cannot expect 30 people in Maribor to prepare projects that weigh 9 billion euros, because we know that the highway cross has driven several hundred people, both of them. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Since I think I only have a few seconds, I'm going to read something that's very interesting. In all this debate, facts must be drawn from the facts. We have heard a lot of hypothetical scenarios, but the fact is that the European Commission has found that Slovenia's error in the projections of the absorption of funds from the Structural and Cohesion Funds is 101%. The average of the new members was 2%.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you. I'm afraid you didn't have much time. After all, you know how to say it briefly and succinctly. Mr. Gumzar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u176	Nicely greeted. Of course, when a person listens to a different explanation of how successful or less successful we have been around drawing on European funds, it would be really best for him to get the material that the Minister spoke about earlier today, which in fact shows how we are going to move forward, not what happened in 2007. However, if I touch a little on the fact that some projects, especially some municipalities, also in north-eastern Slovenia, from where I come from, the problem of providing funds for their own participation is, above all, one simple point of view. All of these congregations, which were formed in 1999, or even later, had to provide the basic function of the congregation first in their area. This is pre-school education, school space and, in fact, we are largely out of funds for large and value-added projects. However, if someone thinks that asphalt road or water pipeline in rural areas is not necessary and these two measures do not bring added value, of course they are very wrong, as these people too need to have basic infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone. In drawing on European funds, I think it is right that we all know first and foremost that this is not an easy task: not for the previous government, not for the current government, not for the future government, but for a very demanding and complex project to invest a lot of energy, to create a good core, a team that can manage and build such a project year after year. In these judgments, which, on the basis of what has already been said, the Court of Auditors reports, I repeat once again that this is a significant short period, could be a suitable basis for debate. It is right, however, that, as in the second part of this debate, the view is forward. We are talking about a seven-year period, which for all those projects that have already received any financial realisation started significantly earlier than 2007, because I also have a lot of experience in the management of the Krko municipality and projects where we are talking about the annual municipal infrastructure of certain settlements where environmental projects are concerned, we have practically started in 2003-2004 with the preparation of these projects, so that you can then come in time to the construction permit, to succeed in two targeted calls, and then, after such a procedure as Mr Jerič described earlier, even sometimes with some quaint exercise of some kind of euro you can get into the municipal store; one that is one of those who can draw these funds. I think it is very important that we be aware that there are five more years ahead of us in this period; that there are two more years after this period, when we can also draw these funds in line with this financial perspective, and that we are really doing our best to meet this challenge, and that we will carry the money we need and use it usefully. Today, something has already been exposed, and I think there are several critical points in this project. I think the first of these matters is the dispersion of responsibility for drawing on these funds. On the one hand, it is a management body which has received this accreditation further for intermediate bodies which are usually different ministries and ultimately beneficiaries and from municipalities to individual ministries. Here I think that the government or the job, and everyone who manages this project, is working hard to actually make a review after two years and see which way to go, how to make the best use of these resources in such a changed situation, to achieve the greatest effect and ultimately to carry out these projects. Another big problem, I repeat, is that we do not have provinces in Slovenia. We have a big problem when, in fact, in a variety of environments, these projects are really divided into municipal projects. Today, several times has been said, the human resources and financial potential, especially small municipalities, are very problematic in such work, as there is a need to come up with a considerable investment and make it within an appropriate time frame. The space legislation itself in Slovenia is one of the biggest inhibitors, development, where we can't get to these spatial installations any sooner. Projects such as third development axis, railways, environmental projects mainly in the field of waste management need to be given the responsibility of those involved in these projects in some way. I do not know if any SVRL cohesion project will be able to be implemented by the ILO if, in a region, a decade is argued where the space for a municipal deposit will be. We are all aware that we have an obligation to regulate this area in the coming years, that we have accepted such an obligation to Europe and that it will be very difficult for an environmental minister or minister or minister in charge of regional development to put these planned funds into a particular region if there has been a dispute for a decade about a particular location. And there will be a lot of such problems in the future at the third development axis. I don't know how the Transport Minister and the Environment Minister should carry out a project on the third development axis, when in some areas, such as a colleague, the mayor of the city, has already mentioned that we will no longer have an axis, but we will have some spiral that will pick up all the cities in this story. At least that's the idea of routes and things like that. In the end, it will count the flow of money through the budget again. That is why I think that this is actually a demanding project and a great opportunity that will need to be well worked out. I am convinced that these things are also being examined in the field now, which projects are realistic, that it will be necessary to reach a conclusion as soon as possible, and that some projects will also be put to life. On 11 February, I also participated as a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the European Parliament, where we were Members from this Committee at a joint meeting with MEPs, where the financial perspective was discussed for the period 2014-2020. And I can say calmly that the goals we now have in Slovenia are objectives very similar to those of the European Commission in the European Parliament. They were all present there, from the Commissioner to the Chairman of the Home Committee, in the European Parliament, talking about these challenges, talking about problems similar to those we have today. For example, the demographic picture of Europe, the concentration of the population in large cities, the associated day migration, public transport problems, the problem of less developed environments. Dear colleagues, I have also heard these audits, and even today I fear that this will be a revision where it will try to concentrate these funds again and put them into those environments that are already more developed. Cohesion policy, a policy of equitable development is designed to do so, and we in Slovenia, thank God, were able to listen and make polycentric development in the 1970s. And I hope there's no other direction for this government now. I think that, also on the basis of the Development Hazard Index, the criteria are those that in some ways give an opportunity to one, to another and to others, stress that those who have a greater backlog in development have priority in these funds. However, I fully agree that if there is not enough internal power there, then these funds should also be redeployed in due time so that they do not accidentally remain in the European cash register. Therefore, I really want the debate on this very important point to go this way and that, after all, what I have already said at the end of the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, we will also give the people of this service time to start creating a new perspective and to start new calls, not just serve the committee, which also surprises me that the main protagonists of these matters are those you are today. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u180	Slovenia was a net recipient of European funds in 2007. This fact is based on the Court of Auditors’ report, the European Union’s funds in the final accounts of the State budget, and is recorded on page 29, where a graph is also drawn that the matter is more transparent. It says: "Figure 10 shows that the net position of the Republic of Slovenia without recipients outside the State budget and the net position of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole were positive. The Republic of Slovenia, as a whole, received more than €31 million from the European budget than it was paid for in 2007. This must be said because not only manipulation but also lies about it, in a similar way as was done in the final accounts of the 2007 State budget, have repeatedly been repeated in today's debate. You need to look at the whole thing and not just one piece of it and manipulate it with that piece. It is important that the funds have come to the Republic of Slovenia and it is irrelevant which account they came to. It is important that they were used in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I must say that I share my own concern with some members of the coalition, the concern that Slovenia, with the kind of operation that you have chosen, will be a net payer already this year, not just in the next year, and that I am really worried. I am also concerned that there is no ambition in the balance on this issue. The projected funds are falling by €13 million, while payments to the European Union budget are increasing by just under €53 million, which is totally wrong in these circumstances. I think that all measures and mechanisms are those that need to be accelerated so that they can draw on these funds more quickly and efficiently, which is why we have proposed such a proposal. Another word about the Rules of Procedure, given that I have been mentioned by the distinguished Mr. Brulc. It was I who participated in the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government as a Member. I am not a member of this committee, but I allow the possibility that Mr Brulc, given that the first term of office in this National Assembly has not yet been able to chew up our very extensive rules of procedure and he probably does not know that each of the Members can participate in a meeting of any committee and also discuss it. However, I would not allow myself, just as he allowed it to be vehemently, to pass judgment on the individual Member's debate. I propose that we respect the maximum of the President of the National Assembly that we discuss ad rem and not an ad person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u182	Mr Member, I know you are a Member, but there was Mr Kangler, Mayor of Maribor, also a former Minister and I did not say that they should not debate, but that they had long hours of lectures. I don't need that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you. And Mrs. Brunskol, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't talk about who's vehement or not in someone's eyes. That's not my way of judging people. In each of us, I see above all positive, and I also believe that today's varied debate is also, as my colleague, Ambassador Franci Bogovič, said that we are aware and we can admit that it is about drawing on and using European funds for a very demanding project. I fully agree with his statement. And in today's debate, the state budget is the state budget, which shows the facts, facts, data. I wouldn't decide if everything was in here. I would be very happy if someone told me tomorrow that it was a mistake and that not everything was really shown in this budget, as regards the use of European funds, and that this table of yellow and white shows any incorrect information. But I've checked them several times, and I see that, unfortunately, it does. Let us go and look at the specific facts that we have already talked about today. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is the one which I believe has not yet been taken here as a legal and credible institution that does its work. It is true that this is the work of the Court of Auditors to help all of us and to warn us, it shows the actual findings that they would not be repeated on the basis of this error. In recent years, the Court of Auditors has found that unfortunately, there has been very little realisation of European funds. Only 46.38% was realized in 2008. Analysis and review of the situation backwards, I believe that they are useful and especially necessary for those projects which, if so, such as some colleagues, should have been from a position or opposition, have discussed on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and have somehow highlighted the issue themselves. They highlighted in particular the feasibility of some concrete projects. One of the fellow Members, for example, discussed the difficulty of having the project approved and so on, a small part exploited, as well as my colleague, the President of the Committee on Local Self-Government, Mr Villa Trofenik, said that the land has no wall status, the construction of a cleaning plant there is not possible and so on. There are probably such and similar problems in Slovenia. I believe it is necessary to prepare and establish a mechanism for systematic monitoring of all European funds, regardless of where they come from, where they come from, or, for example, from a highly developed Cele, for example, whether there is another place or from a slightly less developed other area. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia therefore made observations and recommendations, as I said before. Let's really take this into account. In today's debate and my fellow Member's opinion on the position of the Socialist Group of Members - unfortunately, I have not personally heard that it was possible, as I said myself, that some of the projects were also political preferences. I didn't want to offend anyone, but in this, I have to say, I have almost no doubt, because everything around us was very obvious, especially when we received an insight into the projects at the committee meeting, as the President said earlier, that he had a wonderful overview of some of his colleagues' political beliefs in different areas, or, if you want, the municipalities and where the projects went. Just before the parliamentary elections or even before the local elections, there was obviously a little more. But I don't mind. Perhaps the concrete colleagues of the mayors or mayors were so much more successful, so much more professional. I don't know. Of course, I don't take that lightly either. However, I get one feeling: that the spoon is not as big for all of us, that, for example, as mentioned, for the project of the Belarusian water supply, the decision was actually issued a few days before the parliamentary elections and somehow you get this mixed feeling. And don't let anyone blame me. Also my fellow Member, who discussed this, please don't. Although this matter has been on the loose for years. Is that really a coincidence? But if that's a coincidence, then it's an incredible coincidence. I have to admit, I'm glad the water's coming into this area. That's right. Because water is the source of life. However, projects for smaller water pipelines, even when reported elsewhere from Slovenia, not only from the White Country, some were not assessed to be so valued as to be a priority or approved to be an even more successful and better result of the use of European resources, but rather to some other projects, other decisions. I hope not, all those decisions, when someone mentioned here, some such really drastic deviations could not be said somehow, because I have to say that even with the previous Minister of Local Self-Government we have in principle worked well together, that he was a pleasant interlocutor and also ready, at least as far as possible, to cooperate. But let me finish. When my fellow Member, Mr Samo Bevk, somehow expressed his opinion that he does not know now that, in all this, it was also possible that fishing skills were needed in the mud. I hope it wasn't like that. I hope that all this debate on the use of European funds will now go only for the sake of being aware, however often it happens, that the obvious, the previous government, this government, 100 days, has failed, is successful, the Prime Minister mentioned, second, third and so forth, I still believe that each of us, and I have already talked about it several times, has been entrusted to us that we have this honour to be members of this high house, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, from wherever we come and also from any parliamentary group. [[...]] Therefore, all the results to be shown in the following final accounts will be the results of the work. I believe that the first closing account and the indicator of this government will certainly be the closing account, and the results of this government's work will not really be shown until 2010, the final account of this year. Maybe I said it too fast. Why? 2008 has been so and so practically over, the matter has already been decided in the past, in the previous months, especially since the elections were because the deadlines for using European funds, drawing on and so on, we know how things are going. Especially those who are still engaged in the local community, or those who may also be municipal councillors. However, 2009 has been one way or another, and in any committee I participate, I look at projects, I see how things go - whether it is infrastructure, whether it is transport or any other, it is somehow enough for 2009 or, in general, almost a few years by 2011, so-called cemented. I'm sorry. And I believe that no one will object to the projects that have already begun, but we must admit that a lot of decisions have already been made before the elections in a number of projects. Therefore, let us not be offended, those who have now decided that you are in a different position than in the past, even though some matter is decisive, serious, but not hurtful or hurtful, we say. Let's say what a fact is! The final accounts behind us will also have to be confirmed by the national assemblies, even after us, and perhaps we will not be Members, we will be able to say some, but this will not be a correctional exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you. I ask, Madam Minister, do you want a word? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u186	Just a few short sentences, given that the debate has been long, comprehensive and that I have already said something in between. I am alone as a human and as a minister primarily focused on what my work is, it is said to lead this department in the coming period, to seek solutions for the future, and also to take decisions for the future. In doing so, I would stress that the implementation of cohesion policy is a process. And when we say it's a process, it's a long-term process, not just a demanding one. In fact, it started in Slovenia when Slovenia started taking the first steps towards the EU. As a system and as a country, we have an inheritance in this area from which we must come and which must be the foundation of good and bad. In the good news, we build on what is worth developing further, and in terms of problems, problems, including mistakes and mistakes that we have made or have built into the system itself, in order to improve and eliminate them. This is where you agree to Walter's thinking that we don't have the best world. Everyone can be improved. And in this context, I also see my task of improving the existing system, focusing our activities in those areas, which will also help us at the moment most in solving the problems that Slovenia is dealing with, and will provide us with the most efficient and successful system of action in the years to come. I believe that the Government has also set itself this task, and this is how the proposed activities and measures go in this direction, taking into account all this complexity of the area. You yourself have warned that this is an area where everything is actually intertwined. On the one hand, the system and implementation of European cohesion policy itself, and on the other hand all of our areas of regulation that we have and which are an integral part of this process, and many also lay down conditions and also make it difficult for us to implement this cohesion policy. As a result, I am also aware that the tasks we have set ourselves to improve this process, to simplify it and to optimize the pumping system, are not short-term tasks. We started to take the first steps. I have mentioned some of these very important measures already taken. Of course, it's a long run. I believe that the minister or the minister who comes after me will have a lot more to do, and then I will be ready to hear the criticism myself, what was inappropriate, bad, which is worth the improvement, of course, with the desire and hope that whoever comes after me can do even better and more successfully. I also take very seriously the maximum of being a learning society. And a learning society is based on learning individuals. I am also willing to learn from my predecessors and also from all those who here present your vision for part of my criticism, and I also take them for a lease, so that we take them very seriously and take them very seriously. And this is also the commitment that the Government is also making, to do a great deal, to make this system more efficient, effective and to ensure, above all, the achievement of those goals that we have set ourselves and that cohesion policy will also serve us during this period to solve the problems that the financial and economic crisis is causing us, and that we will ensure that we have an inflow into the budget also in this work, which depends on European funds. So much is possible in the final word, and I believe that we will continue to pay attention in the future, to meet and, above all, to discuss this substantively.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Does Mr. Trofenik want a word as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I think we can see that the debate on the issue of European funds drawback was necessary. I hope it will also be useful for us to come out of it with some sober knowledge and conclusions that will serve all those responsible, the Government and everyone else, to ensure that we are as efficient as possible in our use. Given that two years of this financial perspective is over and M+2 we still have seven years at our disposal. However, seven years does not mean seven years for comfort because if we go over the finger, at least 600 million euros will have to be pumped each year. And we're still a long way from that, without that remnant coming from a previous financial perspective. Despite the fact that we have presented different debates differently, some calls, other conclusions and contracts, and a third narrower, which is only reasonable because we have come from the final account of the state budget, this is a cash flow, I am pleased that despite the fact that some representatives have written from some of the cracks, that some of the culprits are looking for a system of conspiracies and similar things, but the debate with some who are also coming from such circles should not be resented when they have relaxed, they have told deep truths. I would only draw attention to Mr Ziherl's discussion, which he said in a way that is profoundly true. I hope they also heard it in Brussels. I have been warned several times that they are listening to us and monitoring what we are saying and what we are discussing, even in Brussels, as if it were some kind of fear. I think it is brave to admit mistakes and learn from mistakes and stop making mistakes, although idealistically it is never possible to avoid them, absolutely necessary. Because in this way, without a desire for any kind of search, of course we cannot achieve in this financial perspective, which is likely to be the last, what we urgently need, because it is practically the only real or important investment resource that we will ever need in these crisis periods. I am confident, as the Minister said at the end, that there will now be such discussions, regardless of who will initiate them, in the National Assembly at least once a year, and that we will start with the next more qualitative debate not only in terms of the appropriateness of recording, planning, including in terms of the efficiency of use, whether the added value and similar things will be even more difficult than in terms of recording and use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you. We have concluded the general debate. We have before us the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors from the review of 3.3.2009. I'm opening applications for discussion. In doing so, I remind you that a correction has also come to this amendment, where the word "Commission" is replaced by the word "State Assembly". I'm opening an application to discuss the amendment. Those who have time at your disposal don't even have to apply. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say what I intended to say in the previous debate, and my colleague Potrč warned me that I was acting contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Later, colleagues kept saying the same things over and over again, but all they had to do was use that Serbian saying, "If someone, if not their own". It's okay, I don't mind him, I think it's best to warn me than my opposition colleagues, because it looks like he's mad at them and he's not mad at us, so it's okay to warn me. However, it would be wise for them to accept this as a warning to themselves. I just want to say that points 3 and 4 of this amendment are, if you use a strong term, an expression that has something to do with perversion. In the 3rd point, contrary to what is logical and fair, you should say everything that is good for you, and what is not good for you is that only the information that is proposed for this amendment in favour is mentioned here, so that everyone who logically thinks should ask whether 112.6% of the funds have been confirmed, given the rights of use between 2007 and 2008, in order to ask what happened then as a result of this call, how much has been allocated for operational programmes to strengthen regional development potentials, then also the funds actually distributed, totaling 678 million for two years, in 2008 has been distributed 21 million. Catastrophically high number, I have to say, what a man can't cover. The same is true of operational programmes for the development of human resources, operational programmes for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure and so on. I think it is right here to stress that such an amendment cannot be confirmed because it simply does not contain everything that needs to be written. If everything had been written, then I would have voted for it. The same applies to the fourth point of this amendment. If we say here that it should continue, if we actually did it, to continue at least with the dynamics as it was achieved in the first days of the financial perspective, then I think that, God forbid you to do so. Because if you do so, and the rest of the ministers and your colleagues in the government and in your department, I must say that by 2013, we will have spent about 40, 50% of the funds allocated or foreseen from the European Union. In 2015 we will spend, say and write, about 2 billion and say 300, 400 million euros. Is that what we want? If it were written to continue with a significantly higher dynamic than in the first two years of the financial perspective 2007-2013, then I would say, "Great. That's exactly how it has to be." That doesn't mean it was so bad before. There were objective problems. I agree. However, let us be so correct, say that it was too slow and too little and that this must be accelerated. You didn't write that, so I'm not even going to waste my time on a decision like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Brunscoll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. As Mrs Pečanova said, the fourth point of this amendment of the SDS Group also confuses me when it says, "The National Assembly calls on the Government to be as effective as possible to draw European funds and to continue," and here I am somehow disturbed by 'let it continue at least with the dynamics as it was achieved in the first two years of the financial perspective 2007/2013." We were just talking about 2007 and 2008. These are the first two years and have identified 46% of the realisation. I think it was probably a mistake here or, I don't know, the data wasn't shown on the side of the parliamentary group that they were thinking something other than what was seen in the data. I think that it is appropriate to take into account the conclusions or proposals adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and to continue working together and effectively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u194	The decisions proposed cannot be adopted. The conclusions that are proposed, they talk about backwards activities, they talk about changing development priorities, they talk about preparing analyses for action within three months. They are not saying anything about what needs to be done, given that economic activity is walking, that European funds will still be pumped up. For this reason, I think it is necessary to adopt at least a minimal correction, which is why the proposed conclusions are the amendments that speak further, which say that the National Assembly expects the Government to continue to draw as effectively as possible on the resources, at least with the dynamics we have witnessed so far, and that the National Assembly expects increased pumping dynamics mainly in operational programmes for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, as one of the measures in the light of the promotion of economic growth: the highway programme, the optical network, the modernisation of the rail network, energy projects, high-tech projects and so on. We're breaking up in the essentials. At this level, which is not affected by this, you would like to see certain investigations, audits being carried out at the level of monitoring of projects every day. Projects are being revised every day. Those who have had any dealings with these matters know this very well. However, we suggest that we look ahead and that the activities be accelerated. That it is necessary to accept this, we are convinced by the rebalancing which speaks of non-ambitiousness, talking about the fact that resources in 2009 will decrease with the European Union's rebalancing, which is very worrying. I have said it many times, and I want to say it again, it is normal that in 2007 it was not as much as planned. It was the first year of the new financial perspective. The programmes were approved administratively by November 2007, and it is clear that, given the dynamics of the projects, the main effect of everything that has been done in the past two years will be recorded this year. It is also unclear to me what methodological reception will result in this revision of the projects for which the conclusions and contracts are signed. Which of the thousands, tens of thousands of projects listed here, will you revise according to the forecast of the political preferences of some approved projects? Will you go and revise the sewer and plumbing in the village of Tabor in Nova Gorica? Are you going to go revise the project that got the funds, the plumbing-channeling of Šmihel in Nova Gorica? Will you go revise the incubator project in Novi Gorica, the project of the waste management centre Stara Gora? Will you go revise the sewage treatment plant in Brežice? Are you going to go revise the city core renovation project in Brežice? Will you go and revise the city core renovation project in Kranj? What will you decide? Or the restoration of the Kiselstein Castle in Kranj? And two or three other projects listed here. So much for the political preferences of approved projects. Which one will you choose? No one, because you know that it's usually populism talk and nothing else, and it only serves you for what some media has already started to put someone you've been focusing on at the cross, if you don't act economically. Missed, missed. But the bottom line is that this logic from the street comes to the National Assembly. For this reason, I think it's time to think and I suggest you support the change and thus give your government a boost to look ahead, not back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening my application for debate. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well-known Madam Minister, well-known Members and Members of Parliament! Why is it important that this amendment and the amendment be adopted? Not that we actually oppose or that we as the Slovenian Democratic Party are "hurt out" that we want something more. This amendment is intended only to make the actual use of funds even more than it has in previous years. To actually take advantage of all the resources, all the opportunities that are offered to us. I cannot agree with a fellow Member who has actually said that she does not understand that article. Nowhere in that article, if you read it, does it say you will draw less or it would not be enough. But I think it's written in such a way that at least so many or more of these funds are drawn. But not to misinterpret this sentence written in the amendment. I believe that, colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow you will understand this amendment in the vote and that you will vote for it and support it, because it is about the development of the whole of Slovenia, not just the development of certain individuals in Parliament or in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I was challenged again, but I don't know why. Come on, do the audit! We also demand in our territory, normally, but I'm not afraid of that at all. Perhaps someone is afraid to walk through Parliament and hunt ministers now to sign a contract until there is still time, because this was not possible before, because funds have been received for this in areas where there were no construction permits, land conditions have been regulated and so on. Look, when we talk about revisions, we all fall under the same rules and the same options. This amendment is ridiculous. I'll give you another case. If I'm honest and I respect the rules in society, then I don't have to keep saying "I don't steal in the market" or "I respect traffic rules". I respect them if they don't, but that's my problem. And in these amendments, we write that we will draw on European funds and that we will draw more of them, that we have pumped perfectly and so on. So who's using it? I don't know. I don't think that's necessary. And the debate we had on the committee has already shown that we are proving something to ourselves as children, and of course this is not necessary. That's why I'm going against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Trofenik came forward, as I understand it, as a proposaler, where he was rejected by the system. Here you go, Mr. Trophynik, as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u200	Unfortunately, that's the way the system is. The Committee has drawn up a proposal for a decision with one wish: to improve the situation as it is now or has been so far. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. And no one normal, sober can do that without analysing the current state of possible weaknesses and changing for the better. That's the point. But the amendment is nothing more than an attempt to destroy or to prevent this desire to make any improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it again, and I'm gonna open the application again. Check-in is on. Mrs. Brunskole, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u202	In a short time, I'd just say when my colleague mentioned that maybe the colleague didn't understand. I understood point four very well. I just wanted to say that if we go to an entrepreneurial level, if an entrepreneur achieves 46% of the plan's implementation, let's say, in the last year, he won't set himself a goal in order to have one just like that in the next. I'd give myself 120%. That's what I was gonna say. And I think it is clear that the Committee's proposals are also in the direction of future work, which should be as effective as possible in terms of increasing the use of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u204	Apparently, Mr. Brulco and I didn't get along. I'm a case of purposefully appropriate metal. I told Nova Gorica, Brežice, Kranj, I could continue and indicate from this list that you have in the material, over a hundred municipalities that have been granted projects during this period. And I wanted to show the absurdity of this conclusion of yours. Please, we both know, I suppose we both know that there is a system of audit, a system of control, a system of control that works. And it's effective. Many had already had to be reimbursed because they were not used in accordance with the approved project. That this system, to bring to the National Assembly and to conclude and to call on the Government, is wrong to be out of one normal sanity logic, but I wanted to show you on a plastic case: What tube will be the one that will be subject to revision? Your political options, the ones sitting here in the middle, or ours? Please! This has been said on your part that projects with political omens are defined and validated for all the rules of the game in Brussels or on the European Commission. But what was the real purpose? The real purpose of dealing with this point, and what it wanted to initiate with it, I said at the outset. The first thing to do before, if it was bad, then to create some basis for where it is wanted, to pull some "maps" out of the door and stick to someone's cross, because someone isn't suitable and liked, and today the essential purpose was told by Mrs. Flower Zalokar Orazem in the debate when she directly announced the human tsunami in this area. She said: "The official structure of these reports, which we have in this National Assembly, is not appropriate, the reports are prepared distorted, so it is necessary to consider replacing this structure." Official structure. Not directors, secretary of state and so on. That, ladies and gentlemen, is worrying. If you continue this way, however, I firmly believe that you will be devastated and I fear that another government will have to save the rest of the year's European funds if you continue to do so by then. One more time. The Court of Auditors' audit report, which was the basis of today's debate, on the final accounts of the European Union, says "the net position of the Republic of Slovenia was positive in 2007 because Slovenia, as a whole from the European budget, received more than €31 million 330 thousand 280 more than it paid." Instead of wanting to nail people who worked in the previous mandate in this area, at least at the end of this debate would deserve a public thanks for everything they have done to this country, to citizens and to the citizens and to the municipalities in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you. I think we can close the debate because time is up. I can thus point out that we will decide on the amendment and the conclusion of the report in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, Thursday, 5 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night!
