ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 8th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Victory by Jelinčič Trimeniti, Milenko Ziherl and Marian Križman from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Resolution on the National Security Programme against Natural and Other Accidents in the years 2009-2015. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished guests! First of all, I would like to tell you that this is a resolution, one of the first documents we have prepared at the Ministry of Defence in this mandate, and we are actually introducing a series of such strategic documents to try to redesign or develop the area of defence and protection and rescue. Well, and this document, this resolution refers mainly to the area of protection against natural and other disasters. This is therefore a document, which is the second medium-term programme for protection against natural and other disasters. The first one was made in 2002 and ended in 2008 with the main tasks. In this new document, we have set the first or we will say the basic objectives, as well as some concrete viable programmes until 2015, although we are aware that this year, when we begin this programme, we are in exceptional financial and economic distress or crisis and we need to be all the more rational in all the issues we are setting out in this programme. I must also say that, throughout the resolution, we have taken into account that there is already a new form of natural disasters that are the result of climate change, which are likely to determine in the future the direction of our thinking in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, and that we must use all the forces we have at our disposal in the framework of the system of protection and rescue and defence. That is to say, the force for protection, rescue and assistance, as well as the military organisation, because all together will form fundamental forces to help people cope with the consequences of natural disasters and also with preventive activities, in order to avoid the more severe consequences of these disasters. The resolution began in the previous mandate, but very much inter-resortmental coordination was needed, because in the system of protection against natural and other disasters, various NGOs are entering, from the Firesilian Union of Slovenia, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Crisis and a variety of other rescue organisations, and very much coordination is needed at the level of the municipalities, because the municipalities are actually a fundamental local community in which we carry out a huge number of these activities at national level. Because of this resolution, we have been listening to show that the system of protection against natural and other disasters is a unified and comprehensive system, a subsystem of national security. We have also tried to prove that we need adequate information and communication infrastructure to operate it, which is now available and actually supports every citizen and citizen of our country. By calling 112, we ensure the operation of various rescue services at all levels. Under this programme, we plan to strengthen preventive action, then update observation networks, communication infrastructure, reorganisation of protection, rescue and assistance forces, and also plan to deepen the functioning of the European Union, particularly within the framework of the civil protection mechanism. In the context of this resolution, we envisage upgrading, updating meteorological and hydrological systems and then spatial documents in this area. We will try to strengthen all our rescue services and, in particular, our fire service as a general lifesaving service. In doing so, we will also go to the reorganisation of civil protection forces, in particular the reduction of a large number, at least on paper, civil protection as it has been before, to some of the 3 to 5 thousand members of civil protection, for whom we would really like to become as operational as possible. Throughout the discussion so far, we have come across the open question of volunteers, and we hope that with your help in the future we will also be able to regulate the status of voluntary rescue workers, in particular on the part of employers, in a way that will support our system of protection against natural and other disasters. There have been many amendments to the debate so far, and I must say that we have accepted everything with great joy and that after the debate in the various bodies we have also received another amendment, following the debate on the working body of the mother. I would like to report that this amendment, which came from the Slovenian Democratic Union, is also acceptable to us and fully [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u3	Dear Madam Minister, the time has run out. Please finish the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u4	I apologize and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Defence as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Joseph Jerovšk to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 5th session 1.7, the Defence Committee considered the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the working body. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national governance and the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the amendments of the Committee on the Environment and the Space which considered the motion for a resolution to be an interested working body. On behalf of the proposer, the motion for a resolution was presented by the Minister of Defence, Dr Ljubica Jelusic. The national programme adopted in 2000 ended in key activities in 2008, so we need a new document. The important difference between the old and the submitted document is that the previous one addressed the threat and the sources of the threat and the current one in the area of protection against natural and other disasters is slightly more operational and concrete. The programme already had to shrink in the face of the first rebalancing. A new round of coordination was needed. The Minister gave the Committee members the assurance that there will now be no more financial shocks in the area of protection and resolution than we saw at the first budget rebalancing in 2009. The proposed resolution was in line with government authorities and government organisations operating in a system of protection against natural and other disasters. The Act was also in line with the largest organisation of the Firesil Association of Slovenia. Their opinion on the proposed act was given by campers, cinemalogists, rescue dog guides, the Red Cross of Slovenia and other professional associations. The truth is consistent with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. The first time the resolution explicitly addresses the problem of climate change and the impact of climate change on natural disasters is the news. An important issue that the applicant dealt specifically with was the status of rescue workers. The competent Commission of the State Council and representatives of the Association of Fireworks of Slovenia also draw attention to this issue. At the meeting, the Minister said that there were still a lot of open issues, but the issues are expected to be resolved through normative acts below. The proposed resolution also discusses the area of updating observation networks, the reorganisation of protection forces and rescue and assistance, the training of ensuring preparedness for modern sources of threat. There is a major change in the status and reorganisation of civil protection. The number of members will decrease significantly, from 15,000 to a maximum of 5,000 members who will have the status of a contract member of civil protection. The representative of the State Council, Darko Fras, presented the opinion of the two Commissions of the State Council at the meeting of the Committee, which support the motion for a resolution. At the meeting, Mr Matjaž Klaric, Commander of the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia, said that the resolution on the fire organisation was a very important act. Part of the national system for protection against natural and other disasters is based on a fire organisation which is a non-governmental, voluntary organisation with a heavy burden. This is particularly true of events, many natural disasters in recent years, in which firefighters, along with other members of protection and rescue, have successfully assisted and acted. The resolution states that voluntary firefighters must be provided with working conditions. The Fire Commander points out in this respect that firefighters must train and equip themselves in order to carry out their tasks effectively daily and face the problem of absence from work. They therefore expect that the solution will be found as soon as possible and that voluntary firefighters will be able to carry out their mission as set out. The discussion highlighted the objective of implementing this resolution that funding sources or the dynamics of funding should be more defined. Concern was also expressed about the reduction in resources in the first balance sheet of the budget. The debate also confirmed that the resolution does not speak enough about what is also the basic definition of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the UN, the NATO Union and the EU, that Member States need to take into account in defence and security plans the fact that there is an ever-increasing situation at the forefront of natural threats and that countries need to prepare for this right now. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Defence Committee has identified itself to the amendments tabled. Especially if we want to. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] draw attention to the amendment imposing a re-examination of the possibility for voluntary companies operating in the field of protection and rescue to be facilitated by the benefits from events organised to obtain additional funds for their activities. [[...]] It's a known problem. On the basis of the above, the Committee, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, prepared the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution incorporating the amendments adopted and proposes that this resolution be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u8	Your Honor! It is clear to all that the world is no longer threatened by war, no longer by military conflicts between different countries or, above all, by internal conflicts between the peoples of individual countries, but by natural disasters. And this case has already been responded by the United Nations Organization, which adopted a resolution or guidance a while ago, to give more attention to measures to protect against natural disasters and, of course, to them, to be properly organised to remedy the consequences. This resolution, which we are considering today, is a general document that has emerged after the coordination. It has been taking a long time between different entities and it has probably become so general, although some things are regulated very specifically and it also foresees a source of funds and the like, and for some things, a number of measures will have to be taken on the basis of this resolution if we want this to work too. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we miss or are disappointed at the part where the already agreed and already accepted things in the Republic of Slovenia and even implemented when it comes to a single system, when it comes to the use of funds for defence, protection and resolution in particular in integral work, in the way of common multi-purpose applications. This resolution, however, builds on the fact that the military is a special system and that where possible and in some parts also participates in the civil protection and rescue system. We had in the past, in a not so distant past, that is, in this independent country, but clearly the intention to try in this country with a limited scope of both human resources and financial potential all the things that we will acquire from this title will - if possible, of course not guns, cannons, different Patries, etc., be strictly military, but all the other things - be procured in a way that will also be used for civilian purposes. And let's say the best case, which is a bad case because of the tragic consequences, the case of Železnikov, when the mobile hospital Role 2 was packed in a barracks in Maribor and the medical home was carried to the railways. How practical and useful it would be if it were then and immediately - and this would also be a good training for all those who participate most of the transporters, probably those who work inside the hospital to demonstrate it in those areas that have been affected. We advocate that in the part that we believe in in the time of the modern world - volunteerism, which is also shown by comparisons with other countries, that volunteering is not the first value, which for the Slovenian situation has always been something that we could have put ourselves on high in the world, that regardless of what area of volunteerism it was, and in particular for protection and rescue, from firefighters to civil protection and so on, it was at a very high level. It is to be expected, and also the fact is that because of some, even unregulated situations, especially in the case of working relationships and the like, some things are not implemented or are difficult and therefore this volunteering is declining. I do not believe that I could have fallen to the point that there would have been no more volunteerism in disasters, but, if we look at the comparison, there is a downward trend in all areas when it comes to volunteering. It's just that capitalism has led to the fact that it's all or all of a sudden, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] survival and vote for profit. [[...]] We will support the resolution at the Liberal Democracy Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the minister with a co-worker. The importance of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2009-2015 is extremely important in view of Slovenia's preparedness for these disasters. Today, when faced with various natural and other disasters, more long-term planning and implementation of the policy of organising and implementing preventive measures is needed to avoid the greater consequences of possible disasters. The resolution itself will not eliminate all the weaknesses we have in organising and working in the field of protection and rescue, but fortunately it also points to these weaknesses. If the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, adopted in 2002, primarily assesses the risks and sources of threats to natural and other disasters in the Republic of Slovenia, the national programme adopted in 2009 gives much more attention to operational and development activities in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. The resolution also raises some outstanding issues, such as the status of rescue workers. Many volunteers who are prepared with their knowledge and work in the field, as is important for the resolution of lives at risk, as well as property, cannot from their jobs, as employers simply do not leave them. And this status will have to be resolved in the future. The status and organisation of Civil Protection, in particular the reduction of members of Civil Protection, will need to be better organised and trained by special units that can quickly and professionally jump to help and rescue when necessary. Regulation of the status of voluntary firefighters as well as the status of professional firefighters. Professional firefighters along with volunteers are always the first to jump to help when necessary. They are best organised and have a lot of problems when it comes to leaving work. Special relief will be required for employers who employ such people or when these people come to the aid of fellow citizens. The resolution also draws attention to some other problems, such as protection from hail, flood defences, reptiles. In particular, accidents that have occurred in the near past, such as the Railways, Blanca, and could still be listed, are also ongoing. All of this is also covered in this resolution. It points to some solutions and, above all, it sets out to work in this area in a professional and planned manner. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u12	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we take the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters as an important and necessary document, as natural disasters such as storms and strong winds, floods, reptiles, droughts, high snow and ice are becoming more frequent and more intense. It is therefore not surprising that many of our mayors are primarily involved in organising and assisting voluntary societies in the field of protection and rescue. We are adopting the proposed act just at the time that we witnessed again by the end of last week a violent storm that ended with the beaches and flooding of many buildings and roads. A number of earth’s reptiles have erupted, and at least a few families have had to withdraw from their homes temporarily. We were also reminded of the problem in the past week by the anniversary of the Blanca accident and the systematic attempt at terrorism by an unbalanced Croatian citizen who could end up with unpredictable consequences without the exceptional presence of a police officer, including a volunteer firefighter. This is due to the fact that the motion for a resolution is well-intentioned to note that terrorism on our soil is less likely, and the reality in this area is constantly giving us serious warning. In the global world and even in Slovenia, we are increasingly witnessing to many natural and other major disasters. The document under consideration today is an important basis for providing protection against these disasters, including environmental, industrial and other disasters. This is also, in our opinion, a permanent strategic goal for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why it is even more important to resolve some open issues. Special arrangements should be made for the status of a volunteer rescuer. A special force is voluntary firefighting, on which the country also strongly relies. Therefore, appropriate conditions for their work, training and equipment are expected to be regulated as soon as possible, especially for their absence from work during voluntary fire-fighting actions and also for stimulation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we reiterate that employers of voluntary firefighters, rescue workers, often interfere with the preparation of tasks. They are prevented from leaving their job or exerting various forms of pressure due to absence from work. Just remember the Ironworks, where there were 1,800 volunteer firefighters with other volunteers, while at the same time there were 10,000 more volunteer firefighters active in other places that needed help at the time. In addition, we have annually 4,500 to 5,500 fires in Slovenia. In addition, at a time of increased fire threats, there are major fires in nature. In 2003, 1,800 firefighters participated in the fire in Crassus and 2,800 firefighters in 2006. Voluntary firefighting is our specific and national wealth, which we must cherish and now we must worry about in the future. The data that voluntary firefighters do 10 million hours of volunteer work a year confirms that we can rightly imagine what kind of capital we actually have. Therefore, through the amendment of the Defence Committee by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have initiated an amendment which requires the search for a solution to allow voluntary firefighting companies in the field of protection and rescue to facilitate benefits when they organise events that further finance their activities. This is a well-known issue and it is necessary to have the political will to deal with this issue in favour of firefighters and other voluntary societies in the field of protection and resolution. The system of protection and resolution of Slovenia, which has further developed after independence and firefighters and other rescue workers estimate that this system is good, is also rational because it is based on voluntary organisations that complement each other in all major disasters. Programmes to protect against natural disasters need to be provided with a systemic source of funding, while finding a way out of the situation where the establishment of the provinces has not been adopted. The shortcomings related to the failure to establish landscapes are mentioned several times in the motion for a resolution, as they identify the consequences and shortcomings of spatial planning and other areas of division of powers at national, regional and municipal levels. The motion for a resolution states that the protection and rescue plans will also be implemented in the provinces once they are established. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we draw attention to the harmful behaviour of the current coalition when it rejected, for political reasons, the project of establishing the provinces in the previous term, and it is obvious from it [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] have also stepped down if I understand the recent statements made by the Prime Minister. [[...]] So, we will support the motion for a resolution in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please. Peace in the hall, please! No comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In Slovenia we face natural and other disasters every day. Due to climate change, often irresponsible and to the nature of man's unfriendly behaviour, greed for profit and the current objectives of targeted behaviour, we are faced with storms, reptiles, destructive points, floods, droughts, thirsts, fires, environmental and major traffic accidents, the destruction of natural good, the threat of epidemics and pandemics. There is also a potential risk of terrorist acts, the use of weapons of mass destruction. And the fact is that Slovenia is heavily exposed and threatened. In Slovenia, we have a unified and comprehensive national security subsystem, which operates at local, regional and national level, to protect against natural and other disasters. In the past, much has been done in this area, so we can generally say that the system is efficient, rational and responsive. Of course, continuous additions and upgrades are necessary, in particular in the field of laws, as well as strategic considerations regarding the organisation, preparedness, education, preventive action, information, protection and resolution of consequences. This is also addressed by the resolution under consideration and lays the groundwork for action in this area by 2015. The system is based on the operation of civil protection, which combines numerous systems in its work, such as voluntary and professional firefighters, mountain rescuers, cavemen, underwater rescuers, cinemalogists, guides, the Red Cross, emergency medical care and the police and the Slovenian Army. However, the great responsibility for organising and equipping and training the whole system is entrusted to municipalities which are mainly aware of their responsibilities in this area and have provided adequate financial resources in the past. The motion for a resolution provides for a number of changes that will contribute to further regulation in this area. In the Group of Members, we really believe that proposals for change are age changes and we support them. In doing so, we agree with the reduction in the number of members of civil protection and their greater specialisation. It is also a good solution that builds on enhanced preventive activities to monitor threats and address the causes of accidents that can also be prevented. We also support the planned measures for improved general preparedness, the upgrading of information infrastructure, the organisation of certain rescue teams at country level and the continuation of research and development projects in this area. Of course, some still open questions and problems remain. Among them is certainly the issue of the status of voluntary firefighters and other volunteers in this area and their status with regard to employers. Otherwise, most of the system of rescue and assistance in Slovenia is still and will be based on volunteering. It should also be noted that there are difficulties in selecting data on damage caused by natural disasters and the uneven assessment methodology, which causes a great deal of discomfort among the injured. A particular problem is also the provision of funds to carry out the tasks in this area, as discussed in the resolution. In doing so, it will be necessary to develop a planned climate change adaptation project in the Government programme and to provide as much resources as possible for preventive measures both in the area of agriculture, protection of cultural heritage, water management, appropriate solutions for protection against hail and fire protection. The stocks of material resources must be increased but reasonably and tended to be used in a two-pronged manner. For example, for the military and for protection and rescue. There is also a need for rational cooperation and the creation of common stocks at the level of the municipalities. We certainly support the development of common professional cores, with training linking firefighting knowledge and emergency medical assistance. In terms of general rescue units. We will indeed support the motion for a resolution in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Jurša on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Minister and the Commander of Civil Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as colleagues and colleagues, are welcome. We have before us the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters 2009-2015. This is a document that, in view of the climate change we are witnessing and which is the result of our reckless treatment of the environment that we urgently need, gives us the basis for any further national protection programme needed against natural and other disasters. One of the most important points of the resolution is the emphasis on the prevention strengthening system. The fact is that we do not devote everything to preventive action in Slovenia. Let's only perform when there's a need for curative treatment. I would like to draw attention to the weaknesses demonstrated by the state of protection against natural and other disasters, namely: unequal equipment at different levels, different planned measures in municipalities, institutions, the economy, under-preventive orientation, under-educated education of citizens, unequal skills of the necessary personnel - management and civil protection staff, large differences in response times of health care, firefighters and other rescue workers, incomplete logistics, observation, detection, information, alarming, etc. Planning for protection and rescue is very important. At all levels in the country, rescue concepts will have to be divided. Procedures for action, information and data exchange will also have to be divided and defined. State plans must be updated and updated, in line with regional, municipal and institutional and economic plans. Planning should focus on mass traffic accidents. Here I am thinking mainly of highways, tunnels that we have in Slovenia more and more - thank God that we have them - in the grips or mass outbreaks of disease - various epidemics, pandemics. Special care must be given to public health care in order to be able to accept a greater number of injured or ill in the short term. The Slovenian Armed Forces must be actively involved in the future with all their capabilities. The municipality must coordinate its plans with the provincial, inter-ethnic and state plans, while at the same time with the municipalities outside the borders, those that naturally border the state border. As soon as possible, the reorganisation of the force for protection, rescue and assistance should be carried out in accordance with new innovative organisational solutions. The specialization of units must be important. However, technical solutions should be implemented by qualified companies. An important role, even more important than before, must also be taken over by the Slovenian Army. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the problem of organising a system of protection against natural and other disasters, organised at two levels, at both national and municipal levels. Density and a large number of municipalities make it very difficult to organize local activities, while at the same time depending on how much they are interested in protecting and solving how they are able to organise an appropriate network of volunteers, to harmonise the trend in this area. It is also a worrying assessment that the financial resources at the local community level would remain on the same scale. Because the congregations are also faced with recession, it also means that we will be there, or that we will be there, reducing financial resources for this area. In municipalities, at least 4% should be provided for the areas of civil protection and firefighters of appropriate consumption. One problem is also the inadequate status of voluntary firefighters and voluntary rescue workers in general. Second. It happens that employers of voluntary firefighters no longer leave to intervene. We should also, in some way, stimulate and help them, so that, of course, we too are willing to give up these workers in some way to rescue them. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] In Slovenia, we are proud to have such a number of volunteers in the field of protection and rescue, here I am thinking of firefighters and everyone else, but we will need some more of them, which we will have to organise by law. [[...]] We've already warned about this in the past. The most responsible did not listen to us many times, but to defend and protect us, to save us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u17	Comrade Jurš, please, if you finish the presentation, time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u18	We will support the resolution in the parliamentary group, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Milan Györek, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u20	That's a nice greeting. Thank you for saying that. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we have certain reservations to any and all kinds of resolutions, declarations, joint statements and similar documents. Even in the case of the present resolution, we believe that this document is far too small and that much more needs to be done to effectively implement the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. Here we focus mainly on the necessity of adopting, preparing and adopting an appropriate law to provide binding funds, resources, intended use and so on for the implementation of the programme. However, the reasons for the adoption of this resolution are well founded, and the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters to date is concluded in 2007 and 2008 and should certainly be adapted to the new circumstances, the state of nature and society. If I just give you a few key reasons: Climate change is making natural disasters more frequent and more intense. The provision of protection is also a permanent life and strategic goal for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Improving prevention, developing timely forecasting systems and services, detecting and alerting threats, reorganising protection, resolution and assistance forces, adapting the system to modern sources of threat, complementing infrastructure systems and so on, not to mention. Above all, I am thinking of promoting preventive action. As soon as possible, we expect the Government to draw up proposals for concrete measures and to ensure permanent financing of preventive action to protect against natural disasters, disasters and so on. On this occasion, let me just mention the need to ensure effective counter-clockwise protection, as is the case only, they have been effectively regulated for a long time in neighbouring Austria and also in the country's legal level. You all know that the Austrians, like the neighbouring ones in North-East Slovenia, where, say, these accidents or traps, have been flowing and similar very often for a long time, have arranged this by preparing the entire fleet, equipping the pilots for this, and having also regulated the opposite missile protection. 11 planes are available. We have one, and it's in the hangar or it's serving some panoramic years. And they made the right choice. From their airtight protection, we still have a partial benefit for Prekmurci there, at least that's what experts say because they're smashing these exact clouds. Something like this is one of the measures that should be implemented. We believe that the very purpose of the resolution is good, but we do not support it as a resolution because this resolution does not commit the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to anything. This resolution is just a bunch of non-binding words on paper. If the government really meant it, it would have drawn up laws to commit itself to making promises. While the resolution states that the implementation of this resolution will be directly monitored by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia through the competent working bodies. What's that supposed to mean? Is this the new jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? The most binding words in the resolution are, for example, 'to encourage, to continue, to continue, to ensure preparedness will continue, to be given priority will be to update, to continue activities for more comprehensive and broader support, to study cooperation', mainly a passive way of expressing, without actors, without an active way of knowing who will be responsible for carrying out effective defence under the national programme. We will not support the resolution itself, because it does not really mean any effective action.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Sir, the Commander of Civil Protection, colleagues and colleagues! In addressing such important issues as protection and resolution, there is a real need for the introduction of landscapes in our country. The material itself clearly points out that it would be easier to coordinate all activities of this system at regional or provincial level. Due to the dispersion and large number of municipalities, it will be difficult to rationalise and maintain an equal level of security and protection. How true is the proverb in this case: The hour is late, no one returns. If we set up the provinces in a timely manner, in addition to the successful use of European funds, we could more effectively and rationally implement a number of matters of wider importance in our country, including the coordination of an important system within the national security framework for the protection against natural disasters and other disasters. In the previous term, there was an ideal opportunity and a timely introduction of the provinces. We must reiterate that our Minister, Dr Ivan Žagar, with his fellow workers, has prepared all the necessary legislation and solutions, the transfer of personnel, tasks and resources for the launching of the provinces. We suggest that this project proceeds rapidly, you have a basis or, if you want, we have good, excellent and we are available in the Slovenian People's Party. For the security of citizens and their property must be ensured on a permanent and effective basis. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore express our sincere thanks to members of civil protection, firefighters and other rescue workers who are unselfish and helpful in the event of natural and other disasters, even though their status as volunteers is currently not adequately regulated. In recent years, the process of renovation and modernisation has taken place at the normative and organisational level. All these solutions must be implemented and implemented in practice in the next period. We agree with the findings that it is insufficiently designed for effective prevention. Above all, it is essential to take action in the management of water. It is urgent to update plans to ensure flood safety, which is reflected in the catastrophic consequences of increasingly frequent catches. Given the uneven development of the regions and given the situation in agriculture, we currently do not see the possibility that actions in the field of agriculture and the protection of cultural heritage should be left only to individuals and individual municipalities. The protection of such important national wealth must be regulated at national level. But they would be even more effective at landscape level if they had them. With regard to the status of volunteering in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that arrangements must be adopted urgently to stimulate employers to allow their workers to do human and voluntary work. In some environments, even municipal authorities seem to be hampering such volunteering. The most endangered is the work of volunteer firefighters. The system of observation, alarm and information within 13 notification centres at well-known 112 shall work successfully. However, most of the forces are still for protection, rescue and assistance on the shoulders of local communities. In doing so, it is imperative to relieve the congregations. The State has the role of setting examples in successful public and specialised rescue services such as Slovenian mountain, cave and underwater rescue services. In view of the impact of climate change and resulting in a number of natural disasters, the civil protection and resolution system must also work successfully in the future and focus on volunteering. Nevertheless, quality equipment, working conditions and continuous training are required. The involvement of the army in the resolution of natural disasters also needs to be addressed systematically, as it has appropriate equipment that can contribute to a more efficient resolution. Furthermore, Slovenia, as an equal member, must contribute to greater security in the region and actively engage in the development and development of the European Union's civil protection mechanism for its effective assistance and response to major disasters. We are also pleased that our amendments to the Committee on Environment and Space have been adopted. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, which lays the foundations of the system by 2015, in the hope that natural and other disasters will be as low as possible, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 May. Seven. 2009 I am putting to the debate chapter 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? So, I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I give you my word. Greetings to the Minister and to the co-worker. I must say that the resolution, despite the fact that the principle paper document is that it has the content that I support. I am sure that there will also be action in words and writing, as the direction of the Slovenian system of protection and rescue is certainly good, has a rich tradition in which I see above all the added value, that is volunteering, both in the types of firefighters and rescuers on all other problems. Some have pointed out that now that we have no landscapes, the world will almost collapse. I must tell you that they have already established a provincial fire liaison on Gorenje firefighters, there is no limit to firefighters or obstacles, they come and help, just as logically and naturally is the most given. Of course, it is difficult to think that firefighters from Solčava would go over the hills to Jezersko - but also, if necessary - so I think that the regionalisation of Slovenia is not a key problem, but of course we have to deal with the content. In terms of content, I would say: certainly upgrade the volunteer system, take advantage of what is good for firefighters and other rescue workers to enable those ratings, to reimburse the material costs that go as far as possible. I think the firefighters are the shock force of this rescue system. I would probably also like to upgrade this system, so that the army will be more actively involved in the protection and rescue of Slovenia, so that, in certain cases, the military will also have teams, techniques and means to go on the ground, as in certain cases, first-time professional firefighting units, of course, at the same time voluntary. Let me tell you an example from practice. We had, say, a storm when more people lost tents without sleeping bags without it, then we turned to the military, received a positive response, help, and noticed that, of course, in many shelters in Slovenia we do not have such equipment, such a condition that we can effectively help people. I think this doctrine has changed in the last 20, 30 years, and it's the same. It would be pointless for all Slovene municipalities that have shelters there to have certain equipment, which we will certainly put in landfills after 10, 15 years. I think it would be right, however, that a certain amount of this accommodation equipment would have firefighters, paramedics in this system and then come to the field. As far as protection and rescue are concerned, the matter must be looked at in a much broader way than at the defence department alone. Look where Slovenians, Slovenians still build despite their captures. Where all people apply for building permits, they would build everything, up to the watercourses and beyond, they would build areas on many hills where never and never stopped houses. On the other hand, we need to be aware that significantly more resources are needed to maintain watercourses, roads and construction. I must say that Maria Theresa had a watering job, where the guide was placed by the side of the road and was at the watercourses every day, and we would certainly have earned something in 2009. Otherwise, I consider the resolution to be positive, and I expect that it will also be followed by acts that this is the first right step in the right direction that will receive my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u26	Nice greeting, Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Civil Protection Commander, Members and Members of Parliament! We have already heard from the firefighter’s status today that it is not well-managed, especially by a voluntary firefighter or firefighter society in the countryside, where there are far-reaching professional societies available at any time under their professional responsibility. This is why firefighters are special, especially in rural areas, where they are carriers not only of protection and rescue, but also of social, social and social life and all the events in the countryside. There people trust firefighters, and they give them a lot of free will. Firefighters are linked to all developments, so they are available both in fires, floods, other captures and accidents, but as we have already heard, employers sometimes have problems when they have a voluntary duty to do so. That is why I support this amendment, which allows firefighters to also have some extra euro to earn, by arranging their events, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u27	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u28	For these events in the country are no longer paid, and the tents are dear, and the music is dear. [[...]] However, if the firefighters have already arranged for some money to be left to them for their equipment and activities, it would be right to overlook the tax here, because then it is a matter of law, or in two years, that resolution should also give birth to some laws that would constitute a better status for this volunteering. Civil protection equipment is also widely distributed irrationally. If we put it in charge, in their systemisation, as well as in the organisation of civil protection and firefighting, the issue would be more rational, more economical and more logical. Cooperation with the Red Cross in the area of first aid units is already taking place. This should also be addressed more systematically. So let the firefighters have this volunteering that they still have so that we can maintain it, because if it's just professionalization, it's going to get more expensive and worse. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before launching a new round of applications, I would like to remind you that we are discussing the amendment to Chapter 5. If you want, I can also read it for you, but it concerns the enforcement and compliance of spatial, urban and technical standards in the design and construction of buildings, using implementing and architectural solutions that are professionally justified and tested as the most reliable in the face of natural events. We are discussing this amendment. Both previous panellists, we must admit, have discussed this amendment, so from now on, I am warning all future speakers to discuss this amendment. I think there has been a lot already on the committee about firefighting, which I very much appreciate and respect. However, there is no amendment concerning firefighting, so we cannot discuss this through the Rules of Procedure. So, a new round of applications to discuss the amendment to Chapter 5. Please, who wants to discuss this amendment? There's a word for Lois Posedel. We're discussing the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the amendment, at least I'm going to start with it, and continue in the direction I think it's right to hear it. Perhaps it is not right that, just when we are talking about firefighters and those whom people, citizens and citizens, value significantly more than we do here in Parliament, take the floor and limit the debate. Time goes on in the joint time of the Group of Members, and I think there is nothing wrong with saying what is related to this amendment. It is also not surprising that we are the first three discussers at the same time also the mayors, who are involved in this problem, which is related to natural disasters, captures, and we are also the first to get to know and feel - of course, the most affected ones. I support this amendment in the spirit in which, I am sure, the Slovenian Democratic Party has also tabled it. I say I support him in that spirit, I'm just afraid he wouldn't become an additional obstacle because of the dictatorship he is. Because these obstacles that we have in our lives within the framework of legislation, especially from this spatial, architectural and this point of view, are a danger that it could be even worse. I support the fact that the materials that need to be installed are the solutions that need to be taken into account, the ones that are the best. However, it can complicate it again, encourage construction, involve the search for a solution, so I think that if this amendment is taken into consideration for life, I accept it, I support it, otherwise it is very large. The initiative in this resolution is also such that it would be good today if at least the Minister of the Environment were here. Since implementation of this resolution without adequate support and timely legislative changes will be difficult or impossible. In the field, we also face the consequences of these restrictions, which are related to such requirements as the need for the best materials, architectural solutions that require a lot of studies. Therefore, the last storm we witnessed in the nearby Shaleska Valley is the fact that local roads, public roads are transportable, that these local communities with firefighters' teams, with civil protection teams have eliminated - the dissuasion with material that has made it impossible to transport roads - that the only state road in Velenje is still half closed because, by its procedure, the country has, by its legislation, acceded to full rehabilitation, to the development of all necessary investigations, research, plans and then they will dig up the drenched part of the road. Therefore, I repeat, in this spirit, as it is put in, I support this amendment. But I'm afraid it'll be an additional obstacle.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u32	The amendment is certainly well - intentioned and shows some intention of contributing to a different way of regulating matters in the preventive part. I'll support the amendment because it doesn't hurt. However, I am sure that this resolution will not benefit until we, together with other authorities in the Government, amend the legislation governing interventions into space, from the building law to some other things. This is the only way it has its weight and the obligation of all those involved in the process of obtaining building permits: from initiators, i.e. investors, through those who end up granting permits. It is precisely in this that the biggest problem is that we all want to work together in a way that is best, we write resolutions, we write documents. But when it comes to implementing acts, it always gets complicated. We have in the past, for example, ten years, the building law at least three times, four times, five times, as well as other spatial acts or acts to intervene into space. But I could say at first glance that only when you're driving through Slovenia, that the situation like this has never been the case. That behind every province there is a settlement, some house, that there is no more urbanism, that there is no more traditional accommodation in a place where there should be other surfaces, but whoever has the money, who has enough energy, initiates procedures and walls everywhere. This has disintegrated incredibly over the last period. I believe that those extremes that are in these areas, which are flood and repulsively threatened and so on, will not be built. Thanks also to this resolution and this amendment. However, with the support of this amendment, I would like this to be heard even more broadly than the Ministry of Defence or the Civil Protection Office, that this is a government document and that this should move to where it has to move, but not that this resolution has ambition to regulate what needs to be regulated by other legislation. But it won't hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister and colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendment is extremely important in my firm conviction because it really needs to respect all that it says in order to reduce the number of natural and other accidents, especially when it comes to spatial arrangements when it comes to urban and technical standardisation in the construction of buildings. In this regard, it means anti-shock construction, respect for statistical and other spatial, local conditions. Where there are reptiles, we can't build houses. In the past, too little has been taken into account, and this has resulted in a number of consequences that need to be addressed for expensive money. In fact, the resolution already speaks in its title of protection, which I see as prevention. And for this reason, I support the resolution and welcome this amendment, which speaks and has another requirement in place, not only for protection under this title, taking into account these standards, which it says here, but also suggests or speaks of the fact that protection against natural and other disasters in our country is a broader category for which a number of people in this country are responsible, not only for the Ministry of Defence as the motion for a resolution, but also for the Ministry of the Environment and Space, not least for the Ministry of Finance, which must be interested, I think of inspection services, I think of supervisory authorities at all levels, from the local community to the community and, of course, regions, countries, etc. To help and help all together in their field, taking into account what is said here in this amendment, so that the consequences that we are primarily dealing with in our country will be as little as possible. If we do more in the preventive area, then the total cost will be lower and the consequences will be easier to cover, we will be better able to deal with these problems. It is therefore important that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Of course, I support this resolution, and I also support this amendment that we have tabled in our Group of Members. Both the resolution and the amendment are necessary, because we are in some new situation due to climate change, which is a fact. This also means that natural disasters are also a fact and are also increasing as climate conditions change. We can't get past that. This must be accepted, and we must live with it, which means that we must prepare ourselves for it. It must be said that due to climate change, which, of course, denies disasters such as precipitation, rain, resulting floods, snow, acorns, it also floats and reptiles in our places. This is particularly attractive in Slovenia because Slovenia is geographically very diverse, as well as tectonic, and these are ideal conditions for natural disasters. And somehow, I'd say, not surprisingly, if there are earthquakes and reptiles. The fact is, we simply do not have to influence some natural disasters. As humanity, we have done some things, warmed or polluted the atmosphere, and the consequences are here. Some of the consequences are those that we cannot influence, but some are those that we then further step up and give them some acceleration. Construction of buildings in flood areas. If he gets there, I don't know, every other year until the flood, it's the man who put the house there, or the one who let it be the place to build it. We did this on our own. The one who built the house or the building there may be the least guilty because he believed that there was a possible construction and that he had done the matter because it was not possible elsewhere. Then build roads, regardless of the terrain configuration. Sometimes we want to shorten the road and take it straight across the hill, cutting through the watermelons and what it calls on the beach at the first slightly larger rainstorm. The next thing that a person has a bearing on, which is somehow also meant by this amendment, is the construction of glass buildings. Maybe that's nice at first sight. Maybe it's an architectural fly, maybe even excuseable for 50-story buildings, but building hospitals with glass facades is more than a waste for me and for a lot of others, because it's a higher cost of energy, first for cooling for air conditioning in the summer, winter for heating. It is also to some extent dangerous. So you don't have to build, because it can be built differently. If this is justified in some other geographical areas, we could not say that for Slovenia, because it is an Alpine area, one way or another. Next, where humans influence natural disasters, is the use of inadequate and dangerous materials. All I'd mention is the cover. In every major storm, he discovers at least a school or a sports hall. That means the cover is inadequate. It is not suitable for such climate change. True, construction may be somewhat different, with other materials, perhaps a little more expensive with another cover. How much more, though, is it worth finding a roof at school and gym every two years and destroying all that is left below because there is usually a great flood? These are architectural things that a person can influence. I'd like to mention the case of Austro-Hungarian. During Austro-Hungarian times there was a cadaver of flood zones and there was no way to build, it was simply not possible. Many in Slovenia still have maps in which this is precisely defined. Of course, we cancelled it, we overlooked it, because, well, these are old principles, they built buildings in the flood zone and today we have constant problems, people have constant problems because they built there because they trusted the professions that this spatial planning, planning was appropriate. It wasn't. Another major error is the regulation of watercourses, including the larger ones. What did we do? To make it as simple and as cheap as possible, we simply leveled the shaft to some extent, cleaned the stream so that the water could come from the heights of the valley as possible. And that's where it stops, because there's no way the water could drain faster. So today we have areas on certain river basins, watercourses where there are constant floods with slightly larger floods. All I'd mention here is the river Dravinja. At the lower end of the municipality of Slovenske Konjice, where the water stops because of the road from Pohorje, and then there are problems. Of course, this is not the sole fault of the water industry. Far from it. The profession planned the appropriate restraints, but we are on our own because we felt the damage of this land, where water retainers would be. These are facts, and today we have consequences. This is a general approach to raising people's awareness, so that we can also, with a number of measures or actions, have an even greater impact on natural disasters and that we will have to be more careful in the future to avoid such steps. Of course, there is also a great responsibility of spatial planners to take into account old maps, where flood areas are, and there is no way to build them, and of course people who want to build should be prevented from doing so. Appropriate land must be prepared, where construction is safe or at least not as risky as it is in these areas. The same is true of building on certain plazas, where it is already almost in advance known that something will happen at a slightly larger rainstorm. The next thing I would like to say at the time of the adoption of this resolution is that I find it unrealistic that at the first rebalancing, resources have been reduced to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. This was a major mistake, for no less than a year of natural disasters, unless we are extremely lucky. Natural disasters and consequences, which will also have to be remedied financially, will continue to increase. That is why each budget will have to take account of it and add resources to it, but not take them away. These interventions will be necessary, the damage is great and we cannot say that people should find themselves, that there is no money in the budget due to the recession. And that's not the criticism of this rebalance that we're going to deal with tomorrow, but I'm speaking in general, because it's also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u37	Mr. Petan, you'll be able to talk more about this tomorrow. Let's talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u38	This amendment also deals preventively with these matters in order to prevent them. [[...]] Providing sufficient resources is also one of the preventive measures. Because the things that will happen and you know they will, you can somehow predict. I support this amendment because I think it will improve to some extent this resolution, which is good and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Judging from the findings of the climate scientists, there will be more perceptions in the future, and it is only a matter of time before the first tornado, followed by others, who are likely to bring the people and the country to their senses that we are living in another time and that nature is currently our greatest enemy. We are not yet aware of the threats of nature, because we are acting like we were 10 years ago and we do not want to admit that the situation in our territory has changed significantly in a short time. The Environment Minister will have to play a more important role in the government and the Minister of Agriculture will have to follow and pay more attention to this problem. They're not waiting for a consensus of political parties, they're waiting for immediate action by the government. As the Minister for Environment and Space said on the Committee, they are aware of the effects of nature that are still deteriorating, but do not behave properly and do not act. It is subject to the interests of capital and landowners and does not represent the views of the population, but it is already aware of the coming threats of nature. The forests must be one of the wind protectors to whom we behave machetely, although we know that they are of great importance, especially for the protection of settlements from the winds. As has been said, by 2015 the programme is implementing the opportunities that are set. Not known until 2015 are only regions and newly established municipalities. The necessary resources will only be provided for actions to be taken [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u41	Dear colleague Majhenič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u42	Expressed in Prevention [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u43	Just a minute. [[...]] We are discussing the amendment to Chapter 5 concerning urban, technical standards of regulation and so on, and I would ask you to do so, because everyone else has also adhered to the fact that you, in particular, are confined to the debate on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u44	Mr President, if you will be kind, you will hear the rest. It would appear that the funds increase to protect against the flow, bring the system closer to the Austrians, as it flows through the northeast and causes millions of damage every week. What this means for the population of these places, we know, and for insurance companies, the payment of millions of damages. The measures should have worked yesterday, and the deal for tomorrow is already late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Let me say that I am very pleased with the general support of this amendment, which I have initiated through our Group of Members, as well as with the fact that general support has obviously been given to what we Members have introduced through the Committee's amendment on firefighters and to allow for their additional earnings with some relief. It's to be arranged. Speaking of this amendment, I must say that the resolution states that spatial planning is far more important and the cheapest instrument to significantly reduce the vulnerability of space to climate change. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the amendment proposes respect for 100 years of experience in the placement and planning of facilities into space and in the selection of architectural solutions. We note that during the post - World War II period, these human experiences and wisdoms were systematically stricken and despised. Respect for the traditional practices of the Slovenians, their respectful attitude towards tradition, including respect for the functioning of the public forces, which was so respected by the Slovenians, was systematically disregarded during the jugo experiment in accordance with the traditional mentality of the regime. This was part of weakening the mentality of the Slovenians, deterring traditional values. And look, as we all find, it was possible for dedicated people to reach the agreement of the urbanists for any facility even in the flood zone, etc. The Slovenian cultural and natural landscape has changed significantly. I'm afraid she's changed for the worse. But not only did we change this aesthetically, because our ancestors had an extraordinary natural sense to preserve the natural and cultural landscape, but we also caused incredible costs. And we are witnessing in every storm that the buildings that were placed above the respect of Slovenian tradition are primarily on impact. And these consequences are manifested in this way, I have systematically followed in every major storm in recent years, that it has always discovered one school. Architects were allowing themselves some experiments on state buildings; encampments with large deserts, which, of course, the wind then lifts. Of course, there is also a problem here that government public money had a bad control, it was controlled, it was looked through the fingers, and it had to be done once. Even this mutilation during the previous regime, the mutilation of Slovenian mentality, as it went so far as the architects were supported if they were violating tradition in planning such intimate spaces as, say, business buildings, morgues. The value present in the Slovenians had to be changed. This is said to have systematically replaced elements of sacral architecture with other elements. We have cases where modern morgues follow the pattern of Buddhist temples. But this is not so bad that this temple, when it goes to the top apart, is also here, because the cemetery is everywhere in the exposed places, are also more exposed to weather conditions and catch. A number of things have to be put in the tracks that Slovenians have respected over the centuries: no urban services, no special departments, no special agencies. That's what we used to do. We also knew how to design aesthetically and beautifully. While I am pleased that everyone accepts this, I also need some of the concerns expressed so that such a return to certain standards, technical and value and historical, can become an obstacle. With bureaucratic thinking, it can become an obstacle, but it can't bring about irritation, because we can't tell us that our ancestors in nature were wasteful, that they built expensive objects at the expense of rationality. Our ancestors were extremely rational. Because of this century and century, there are some objects on the most exposed wind points. But they could build objects so that they were in accordance with the natural conditions and the Slovenian soul. And this Slovenian soul had to be crippled often in the past. That won't do any good. It encourages you to come up with four additional opinions, expertise and so on to prevent what people traditionally have in them and carry in themselves and want to do accordingly. Outside the big city area, we built a huge agricultural land for nothing. How our ancestors were able to preserve the earth! Look at the Drava field. Where the fertile land was, there was no house, there was no village. The villages were on the marshes. After II. World War II was a violation. Anything can be put anywhere, that's one case. The other is in flood areas, reptilian areas. And these objects today, when weather conditions are much worse, they are carried away, subdued, carried away by water, subdued by water, carried away by reptiles. This case in Shaleska is now different. Lucky the houses didn't go there either. It was an extreme phenomenon. Apparently, there were indigenous households and there was also a more extreme phenomenon. But we have to go back to not having the architects experiment so hard. That urbanists on the basis of "smashing" will not assign such solutions and such locations as are unjustifiable. Some architects work in Slovenia one-stop shops for residential facilities and for other buildings systematically. Sometimes in the country, it was considered that the one-bedroom could only be for a woodshed, and there it was ugly. The two-bedroom was aesthetically different. Maybe someone will tell me I'm too traditional. Yeah, I might have. But since this has bad consequences, it has been a good solution, it is not justified to blur this, with the goal of continuing to rule, the political goal, the traditional goal: to change the Slovenian soul, to change the Slovenian soul, to change the Slovenian mentality as far away as possible from its tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Well-known Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the motion for a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. We are also making amendments and supporting in fact things to build infrastructure facilities in the field of Slovenia. In other countries these things are very well arranged. Even by checking where the water flows are actually going. Or do the water currents go under the houses that they build and so on. We must therefore be aware that we are actually building buildings in safe areas, in un flooded areas and so on. This will prevent many of the natural disasters that have taken place in recent years. This will prevent much of the voluntary work done by firefighters or other societies. If we do not intervene in this context, there will be more and more of this voluntary work. Because then we have to reorganize the operation of these societies, because then these societies deserve, these people who do all night, voluntary firefighters, all night long, that they also have a day off. And the state must pledge to actually pay that day. So it's important that this amendment is that we actually know how to build, where to build. Not just facilities, including all infrastructure. What kind of materials and what kind of things do we do this with? That's why I support this amendment. I see that many Members are aware of and support this matter. This amendment is actually designed to prevent these natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u49	Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. I also share the views of many of the speakers before me, and this amendment is likely to receive unanimous support. I'm guessing it's of great importance. Natural disasters are already present today and are likely to be even more so in the future. Unfortunately, we cannot avoid this, we cannot even influence it, but we can have a major impact on the consequences of natural disasters. Therefore, in this amendment, I am particularly stressing or seeing this importance, which says that respect for spatial and all those acts must be enforced. This I think is crucial, because we already have a number of regulations, laws that accurately set standards and all the important things that provide security - either in the construction of buildings or other infrastructures. But it's obviously not like that in practice. Architects, supervisors, all those in charge of respecting this to be built in this way are acting differently for such or other reasons. And in the face of natural disasters, we are witnessing in storms, as has already been said today, to many roofs that are taken away or exposed, and we can be glad that this no longer leads to human sacrifice. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we should work primarily to seek the responsibility of those who were essentially in charge of design or control. Therefore, Madam Minister, you, by a resolution, not even in your department, may not have much influence on this, but you can influence as a member of the Government that the Government, or by amending other acts, regulations or laws, is also starting to seek more consistently the responsibility of those who, due to poor work, are certainly responsible that such things have already occurred in the past, especially when such a matter happens again. I think if there is a case where responsibility will be sought when someone is also responsible for a deliberate error, I think that it will be possible for all those who plan or supervise the construction of facilities or infrastructure to act in a responsible manner. That is why I think that this is extremely important and this amendment will also be one added value in this resolution so that we can continue to face such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, the distinguished President! I am convinced that we are also almost united in our view that the amendment proposed by the SDS is in place and is certainly one that will have an impact on the improvement of quality in this area. Look, all the natural disasters and all the natural problems that nature affects us, probably wouldn't have all these consequences if such things as those written in this amendment were already taken into account. Taking into account all the standards for the construction of buildings, all the standards for intervention into space, we would probably also achieve that these consequences would be smaller. If we look at what's going on on the ground, then we see that each, including a very simple road carved into a space that cuts through a plate, in the next capture, causes great consequences when the reptiles are torn apart, and the consequences are even greater than they could have been. That's why I support this amendment. I support this content, which this amendment introduces into the entire resolution, as I also support the whole resolution. However, Madam President, I should be allowed a little outside this framework of the amendment. If not allowed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u53	Not allowed, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u54	Then that's all - I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word. We are discussing the amendment to chapter five. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thanks for the heads-up, President. Seems to me to be more orderly in taking care of our popularity. You've interrupted us for a long time today. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Flows, storms, floods, droughts, reptiles, earthquakes, all of this, as my colleague Sylven has already pointed out, will be an even more common phenomenon in the future. If we look at the national programme of protection against dangerous and other disasters in this context, it will not solve this. We need a system law, respectable minister. The system law, which will provide for budgetary items and will also force the professional lower part of the state administration, the administrative unit, to work professionally. All the accidents in Slovenia are their fault and they are encouraged by the fact that a settlement, houses, kindergartens, schools, etc. is built in unregulated and illegal areas. I personally expect from you in a short time that this law will be on sent-off benches and that we will discuss this in an expert way. Of course, we can say that we are in some way European and that we support this national programme in accordance with European definitions. But until we have our portfolio, even our financial, in the budget, and for that, ready funds, expertise and professional persons, as well as until we blow up all these employees on the official units that work [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u57	Dear colleague Friend, let us remain in the debate on the amendment to chapter five.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u58	We're with these standards. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u59	You had your chance. No, we're not in these. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u60	This amendment makes sense and stupidity is done by administrative units that issue construction permits. All we can see on television is the subject of major anomalies that have occurred by issuing building permits in inappropriate places. And that's a fact. You, too, led a respected president, your time of restoration in our part of Primorska. The second earthquake, when it arrived, destroyed everything behind you. People today don't even have the money to pay off their first loans, let alone hire a second loan. Let me finish, please, let me! Where will you get the money, Your Honor? I'll tell you. Bring that battalion of armies back from Kosovo, which is needlessly there [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u61	Dear colleague Friend, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u62	Money will be scarce. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u63	Please remain within the framework of the amendment you discussed. You're the only one out of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u64	I'm making suggestions, I'm also going to give a written initiative. And these forces that we have at our disposal, I think of the military, could also help when a catastrophic situation is announced. I'm thinking about defending myself from the tide. Not only are we essentially maneuvering at parades when there is a parade to get our highly paid, overpaid air fleet out of the hangars. If there is no systemic approach, once again, there is no connection to discuss such things. Tragedy will continue and will continue to be greater. As I said, administrative units are the main culprit in my opinion. And there you have to start looking for the causes of the damage that will eventually be paid by every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u66	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Dear Minister, Commander, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendment that has been tabled seems to me to be one of the most important amendments. I can personally say that as the mayor of the Municipality of Krško, who is very exposed to various aspects of protection and rescue, I can say from practice that such amendments are very necessary. Experiences of Storms That Happened to Us 21 - 22. 8. 2005 and last year 15. 8th, they are just saying that there is a lot to be done in planning, planning urbanism. The first storm that happened in 2005 and was the result of 200 ml of rain falling in two hours, showed very clearly that a large majority, but this can be said to be three quarters or more of the greatest damage to infrastructure or facilities, happened where the human hand was in the wrong way. As it has already been said, whether it was a road route, many times the wrong copies in the wrong places for plumbing, electricity, telephone. It seems to me that this is one of the most important areas that need to be thoroughly processed and in the future also in these experiences, which have been accumulated in some extreme forms in recent years, to work very fast on this. Neurosis 15. The 8th year of last year made it very clear what wrong architecture meant. That was already said today. In our congregation last year, about 30 buildings were discovered and, as a rule, they were built to protect the facade, which is either wet or wet in any storm, and on the other hand, the use of improper materials. In our case, these metal roofs, which are impenetrable, have been shown in particular, like those that simply, when given the wind enough power, carry away all these matters in awe. It is also very important in the field of anti-semi-protection that in Slovenia, even in the environment ministry, where we are witnessing major interventions, we take planning very seriously and responsibly, especially planning watercourse regulation, which is even more important than that in my deep conviction, is the construction of the necessary retainers in Slovenia. The urbanisation of Slovenia, which took place during the post-war period, has largely caused today the quantities of water coming together into the watercourses to be significantly higher than they were in the past. In addition, these climate changes are more than visible, and this brings about a whole new way of planning. In Posavje, we are currently meeting with the installation of hydroelectric power plants. I think that one very happy model, where the hybrid model of the Sava River flows has been very clear and with thorough research and with the physical model produced by the Faculty of Construction, has really paid a lot of attention to this area, that easy planning of all the buildings, especially those large ones, is also planning the necessary retention surfaces, because we need to be aware that we cannot easily get Slovenian waters into the trough and take these waters. That is why I think that the Sava River watercourse, which gathers most of the Slovenian waters in this central part of the Republic of Slovenia, is the one where much planning is needed and, on the other hand, even a number of retainers so that such things do not happen in the future. For this reason, I support this amendment, which I think is very meaningful. In the future, it would be good to have a team of experts with great experience in this area organised in the framework of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and to have participated in the planning of the action in the design of these measures and ultimately in the monitoring exercise with very practical advice on the ground. That's how we learned from this on the local level. I will also fully support the resolution, but at the same time I would like to take this opportunity to express once again my extraordinary gratitude to the Slovenian forces of protection and rescue, which I think have proved to be many times in recent years and that we are Slovenians, if we can be proud of anything in our system, we are very proud of these things. In our case in 2005, it happened simultaneously in New Orleans, the time they were in America. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u67	Mr. Bogovich, let's stay within the framework of the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u68	I'll finish with two sentences. [[....]] By the time they were hunting criminals in America, in our case we were already repairing injuries with solidarity and with the volunteers we have in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters is very important, even in recent times when these natural disasters are so much the same from day to day. I am also coming from an area where last year was a natural disaster, where not only agricultural crops or other crops but even residential and economic buildings were destroyed, the roof literally broke. I have to say that the government's approach at the time was excellent and so forth. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u71	Pukšič, I warn you, this is an amendment to chapter five. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u72	Mr. President, I've only got five minutes, and I'm limited to five minutes, and I know what I'm talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u73	I left this for you two minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u74	on the national programme of protection against natural disasters, of course we are talking about the amendment to Article 5. [[..]] It could be you who can take all the time you want, and you interrupt me here. I am also pleased that in the resolution there is already an opportunity to study for voluntary societies, it is known that these are mainly firefighting companies, which are the only organised team, so to speak, in rescue. And that is also evident today from day to day. I hope, of course, that this resolution will result in a change in the law on societies, perhaps the law on firefighters, so that certain things will also be regulated around their safety, protection, etc. This amendment to chapter 5 is particularly important when it comes to respect for urban, technical and building standards, how they once planned, how headless, how unprofessional. As a result of all this building, or some regime that asked exactly what it would do with the countryside, how it would transform the nation even through the construction itself, it would appear that these were catastrophic mistakes and sins that, of course, we all pay together. In doing so, it would certainly be useful to draw attention to what we have been alerting us to since we have local self-government. You know, it would be significantly less than that if local communities were to participate enough in the issue of construction works as in all other European countries. It's the mayors who sign the building permit. Now there are some investments in the congregations, and you don't even know if it's published or done in black. A few days ago, I met this case because we do not have any options and powers here, even though it is known that this is beneficial for the country. After all, even for the individual who today is so bad that he doesn't get something that you won't let him. But then, when an elementary accident occurs, it is everyone’s fault: the country, the congregation, at least the one who missed it. That's what the whole machine is behind, which, of course, let things go as far as it went. I hope that the funds obtained by firefighters will also be available now, or through various cheers, etc. All these funds are then used to save the property and life of our citizens and citizens. I hope that this will be regulated by this adopted amendment, that it will also imply the Ministry of Local Self-Government and resolve this area that I have mentioned and that we have also spoken about in Parliament, at any opportunity to amend legislation or anything. Some of you who have run these ministries know that there have been many things wrong here and that there is still a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the vote, following the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. INSPECTION OF THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF PUBLIC FUTURES COOPERATED IN THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STATE INVESTIGATION INVESTIGATIONS IN THE FIELD OF THE COMPETITION OF THE BUILDING AUTHORITIES AND THE BUILDING OF THE ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE, FINANCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATEMENTAL BUDGETARY BUILDING PROCESSESSION, THAT THEY WERE PROCEDURES AND ENTIAL POLITICALLY CONTRACTIONS, On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler Branko Marinič for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Whenever we speak in this Slovenian Parliament about the appointment of an individual parliamentary commission of inquiry, it is necessary to emphasise at least two in order to understand the wider Slovenian public: the parliamentary commission of inquiry has its foundations in the 93rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it states that in specific cases such as this, a parliamentary commission of inquiry is ordered for reasons of wider public interest. The wider public interest, however, covers many public areas that we also want to talk about today. The parliamentary commission of inquiry is also based on the legal basis, namely the Parliamentary Investigation Act of 1993, which was supplemented in 2003. In fact, what Members and Members want to know in the parliamentary investigation process, which has in certain cases, both on the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, is its basis related to approximately the same procedures as those involved in the parliamentary investigation as in the Court of Justice. Many times, however, there is misunderstanding in the general Slovenian public and there is often a legitimate question of Slovenians and Slovenians, what we are actually doing on these parliamentary investigative commissions. The most common response we get comes from a simple fact: "You've researched something, found nothing, and nothing has happened." We would like to really examine some of the basic points of reference, which in any case were contrary to the applicable legislation and other acts governing this area, by means of a decision-making act, as well as in the parliamentary investigation process itself. Parliamentary inquiry into the political responsibility of public officials - we hear many times - and this is why there is a misinterpretation in the general Slovenian public that such parliamentary investigations do not have some basis for all further procedures. In doing so, let me say that one of such parliamentary investigative committees was given the opportunity to lead in the work of the last mandate, where we have drawn up a final report, which was discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly and which has also been made known to all the institutions operating in the Republic of Slovenia. What is the main purpose of the parliamentary investigation in a particular case? To determine whether projects have been carried out transparently and with the care of a good host. I believe that many Members, who are mayors and mayors at the same time, have already encountered difficulties at this first point, because when the projects began to run in this area, things changed a lot during the execution, all together probably with certain purposes. Whether these purposes have been linked to the most responsible public function holders is, of course, a matter of parliamentary inquiry, which must be established on the basis of the documentation it has at its disposal. Furthermore, in this parliamentary investigation, we would like to determine whether the tenders and contracts provided for have been made in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Respected and respected! Many times we meet in this Slovenian Parliament with some clarifications on the construction of motorways and state roads, that we want concrete data on a specific annual plan. Not just with some sections, but with specific numbers, because we find that many times in this area, these numbers are very much exceeded. Furthermore, we want to identify and clarify the conditions and procedures for the award of public contracts, the selection of tenders, negotiations and the content of tenders. This is an area that is extremely complex, which is extremely wide, which is extremely complex, because potential stakeholders, who are so-called attached to a state nursery, have great ambitions behind them. And if they're helped by public function holders, it's so much easier. So in this parliamentary inquiry, we also want to find out this. Further to determine whether all the legislation adopted in the National Assembly was respected in the implementation of the projects. Legislation in the National Assembly, which we are adopting, is also complex in certain substantive changes to legislation, especially when it comes to technical laws, and there may also be hidden minorities that are significant in construction. To determine whether the budgetary resources for the use of funds have been drawn up rationally, intentionally and have been drawn up in accordance with the rules. It's also a wide area. To determine whether public function holders have handled all due care in urban, spatial and environmental investment processes. We know that there are also various speculations in the field of environmental regulation and space. In the background, there are many times those who have harmful purposes for society and, of course, for themselves to obtain as much public or state money as possible. Furthermore, we would like to determine whether the additional works that increased the basic investment values were real or were the result of a pre-arranged process of awarding parts of low bids that favoured certain tenderers and of determining the involvement of public function holders in these proceedings. Here we can safely say that strange things have been happening in these additional parts in large investments in the Republic of Slovenia. Not long ago, it was the anniversary of the well-known Štuvian tunnel. However, this Štuvian tunnel is only one of many investments, which have gone from the original offer value upside down to many incomprehensible heights. All intra-investment procedures have been violated many times. Therefore, it is also right to open this chapter to determine whether these offers, where some favoured operators in the Republic of Slovenia have actually already been written on the skin, are merely speculative, or are not deliberately wrong in the compilation of individual items and later, when checked, we can find that instead of a seven-digit number, an eight-digit number, for example, should be written. All procedures from planning and putting routes into the area to project changes before and during construction should be checked. I've only counted one to make it easier to understand. Many will remember the tunnels under the Trojans. Just in the previous term, when the ministers were changing, the new minister immediately met the incredible findings in the trojan tunnels when they suddenly began to slip. For what? Why? The profession has found and found, but the policy has been silent or has not continued the procedure in order to find out the actual findings that the expert must verify, confirm or object to. We would like to verify the direct or direct link between the construction companies and their legitimate representatives and the public function holders between the property transformation procedures and the management purchases of construction companies, especially the SCT, which has carried out most of these works on motorway projects in the Republic of Slovenia since 1996. Respected and respected, even today many subcontractors who have been in or out of the Republic of Slovenia have been headaches or have already failed, or are still fighting for their existence, because it is the SCT, forgive the expression'supposed', that they have been without payment, that they have done all the necessary work, even more than necessary, but for this work they have not received payment or within the agreed time period, some, unfortunately, not today, but since their implementation has already been a good time. There is therefore more than justifiable suspicion that the basic principles of public finances management have not been respected. If, then, we, the distinguished Members of Parliament and Members, are representatives of the Slovenian people, who also have to determine, through their consistent work in these parliamentary commissions of inquiry, whether or not it was unfair to use public funds in all these matters. These are the resources of our Slovenes and Slovenians. These are the means by which the State and the National Assembly, in particular Members and Members, are obliged to act economically, transparently, publicly, to take into account all the principles of economy, transparency, competitiveness, the public, supervision, for which all institutions are available and are at our disposal to assist us in adopting such legislation that we do not have in its contents small amendments to individual laws, but do not have any evil intentions to anyone in this building lobby that has been spinning and that is of great importance on certain national road infrastructures, deliberately delaying such time, both with overstatements, and with various speculations that are not in favour of the economic use of public funds that have been huge, which have been very excessive and therefore should be determined by parliamentary investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The act setting up a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and execution of construction works - etc., is a very long title, if we sum up this title, mainly relating to the construction of motorways. If we look at the history of the construction of motorways in Slovenia, we can find that the first beginnings of the construction of motorways were recorded there in 1972, when 32 km of highway was handed over, namely the section Vrhnika-Postojna. From 1970 to 1994, 198.4 kilometres of motorways were built and only with the start of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 did the construction relaunch. And the parliamentary inquiry, which we are introducing on the proposal of the Group of Members, concerns the period from 1996 onwards. So, almost the entire period since we started implementing the national programme for the construction of motorways. For the very beginning of the construction of motorways in this national programme, I think we can identify or recall that the start was actually without properly prepared projects, but the need for urgency and, above all, the need to build motorways was such that the beginnings were more than intentional and needed already in 1994. The Resolution itself on the implementation of the National Highway Construction Route envisioned the construction of 538.6 km of motorways and fast roads and 34 km of connecting roads. This was followed by the upgrading of the toll system. Let me just remind you that that first highway section against Primorski was tolling on the basis of a closed toll system so you always paid as much as you did on the highway itself. The construction or implementation of the national highway construction programme also changed the toll system. We have encountered demands to open highways and try to finance them from other sources, not tolls. And the compromise that has been created in the meantime has resulted in the introduction of an open toll system on certain sections, which has led to a number of new unknowns and guesses about the usefulness and necessity of such a decision. If this decision is also to be investigated in this investigation, a thorough analysis should be made of how and on the basis of what happened to the change in the toll system from the one closed in the open. The investment itself was assessed in the National Road Construction Programme to EUR 5.4 million. By 2008, 380 kilometres of roads from the national programme had been placed on the market, and let me say that the Social Democrats had been alerted at the time of construction that the programme must be financially sustainable and, above all, must finance or cover all the obligations with tolls. However, in the history of highway construction, we have never had the opportunity to take responsibility for the management of the transport sector and so to have a decisive impact on the road itself and the way in which motorways are built. During this period, however, we have been very specific about some of the construction irregularities. In particular, we have pointed to the controversial policy making since 1999, when we tabled an interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mr Cyril Smurf. Interpellation was based on a reasonable suspicion of the abuse of the minister's official position due to the change of agricultural land status to a building in an area where a new motorway route was to take place. Of course, it was extremely interesting here, too, that the land to which the motorway was to be run was owned by a party colleague. Of course, the price that Dars then had to pay was significantly higher than that which could otherwise be recognised as agricultural land, and Dars had to pay such a price if he wanted to implement the highway construction programme. This case proves that there have probably been even more cases in Slovenia, perhaps even in many other municipalities where motorways are taking place, and in fact we believe that the signatories will have to seek the responsibility of the holders of public functions in order to bring about such problems. Let me remind you that during the entire period of the previous government, 2004-2008, motorways were being built without an adequate legal basis, as the resolution on the National Road Construction Programme should be amended or rebalanced due to the changed mode of financing. The financing was almost exclusively due and also to an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways in 2009 had to be based also on an inadequate resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways due to the changed method of financing. When the responsibility of those involved is investigated, of course, we expect that it will also be explained why the entire period 2004-2008 has been building motorways contrary to the adopted Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme. If we follow the documentation submitted as a basis for examining the relationship during this period or, above all, a somewhat later period - from the material submitted, we can find that this material relates to the findings of the Court of Auditors. Many procedures on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ audit are also ongoing, so that the current Government has already approached the preparation of appropriate measures to remedy irregularities in order to remedy the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the construction of motorways. In particular, we would like to highlight only some questions that are recorded in response to irregularities relating to the arrangements for the transfer of concession fee to the concessionaire, i.e. to the Motorways Company, to the payment account of the Republic of Slovenia. This ensures a more transparent financial flow and, above all, we can plan more properly, rationally and accurately the annual highway construction programme, because we have an accurate view of how much concession fees will be collected in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the most important preparatory measures is to amend and complement the National Road Construction Programme. This amendment and the addition of the National Highway Construction Programme not only concerns the mentioned change in the financing of motorways with debt, but also the arrangements for the financing of certain state roads, which were also financed by the programme or by means for the construction of motorways, although they were not in the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme. So a number of questions will also have to be raised as to how many and which sections of state roads or local roads have been properly financed under the National Road Construction Programme. So here too, a very wide range of questions and answers will be opened, whether something was prudent or something was not useful, especially whether the legal basis for doing so has been given. And if we look at the commitments that have been made in the National Road Programme since 2004, we can see that the period of implementation of this programme should be somewhere between 2004 and 2033, when commitments are somehow paid, by providing for the issuance of bonds that fall after 20 years, and so today we can talk about the time of the construction of motorways by 2050. It is precisely because of these obligations, which will follow us until 2050, that I am afraid that some more over time, we should also consider that the decision of the previous government to change the toll system, which has caused the construction of motorways to be even more financially unsustainable at the time of its construction and, above all, we should also find out on which basis the previous government has decided to change the toll system, as we have often talked only about the fact that there is a public opinion poll on whether people want blame or not; and this was one of the key reasons that blames in Slovenia have been introduced. We can see that this was at the time before the elections, so we can also talk about very high political responsibility for such a decision, because it was mainly a narrow party interest, not a public interest in the construction of motorways and in particular the payment of obligations in the construction of motorways. If we re-touch the scope of the investigation from 1996 onward, and when you try to analyze everything that has been going on in this area somehow after four years, we believe that the investigation itself, which will be launched, will probably last at least until 2050; such an amount of material and material has accumulated during this period. However, we believe that one important political objective has been achieved in this regard, which is that the construction of motorways has largely ensured a more coherent regional development in Slovenia and that, finally, we are also eliminating development differences and eliminating the development differences that have arisen in Slovenia because there was not enough infrastructure to meet the needs of the economy as well as the people. It is not to be forgotten that some international comparisons on the cost of motorway construction will also have to be made in these analyses. In fact, the price of a kilometer built highway in Slovenia is between €2.6 million and €25 million per kilometer. In Europe, these prices range from €4 million per kilometre to €150 million per kilometre. All of this depends primarily on how difficult the terrain is, where the motorways are running, and what measures are needed to bridge the natural order. The most expensive measures are usually where they affect also populated areas. It was this awareness of people who had somehow developed in the course of the construction of motorways, with regard to the environmental impact, as well as the value of the land that highways could take, that was one of the key issues that the motorways in Slovenia were also being irritated. The analysis shows that it did not go so far as to increase prices per unit of construction works, but prices were rising mainly due to higher quantities to carry out a similar measure, such as what was needed at the beginning of construction, and today at the conclusion of almost already the construction of motorways. In short, transport standards, safety standards, population requirements, environmental standards were substantially changed at the time of construction and required more demanding and costly technological solutions. We believe that this analysis will also be necessary in this investigation if we really want to make a quality section of this event, according to our assessment, the most important project in the history of independent Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Verlich has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u80	Dear President! Dear colleagues and fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the commission of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of construction investments is of public importance in the area of motorways and economic infrastructures financed by the State budget, necessary and justified. We allocate it at a time when the new investment cycle for the construction of the railway cross through Slovenia is ahead. And this is the moment when we may be able to say that we have learned something from past acts. In the previous mandate, a number of excitement was triggered by the number set out in the resolution on national development projects, after which the investment value of the railway cross is EUR 8.9 billion and the railway corridor is to be fully modernised by 2023. This number was calculated by experts and not by ministers of the previous government. And these are probably the same experts who today convince the current Minister of Transport that this figure is too large and that new studies need to be drawn up, which are likely to show a lower final value for the reconstruction of rail infrastructure. Then the government will turn the results of the study into a resolution and the National Assembly will probably accept it. It's much better if you look at the rail track for half the value, say, for 4 billion euros and not 8.9. Let's see what it was like on the highways! The total value of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in 1996 in this National Assembly, according to the Court of Auditors’ audit report was EUR 3.3 billion, and the completion date was 2004. In the meantime, a supplement was adopted in 1998, which extended the completion date to 2007 and increased the total value to EUR 5.9 billion already. The last resolution in force in 2004, which provides for a physical conclusion by 2013, and the actual end of the national programme in 2033, has a total value of up by 252% compared to the first resolution in 1996, amounting to EUR 11.6 billion. What would we do in 1996 if we came to the National Assembly with €11.6 billion? That's an essential question. Whether it is possible that the materials were miscalculated by 252% in 1996 or maybe already knew that the value of the motorway programme was calculated too low, as some today have the opposite of doubting the high investment value of the construction of the railway cross and want to lower them. I'm afraid we're already repeating the story. This is a key issue of this commission of inquiry - why has there been incitement? Another parallel between the road and the railways. The Ministry of Transport, so we were able to learn recently from the Transport Minister, decided as a representative to change the Divača-Koper project from double to one, despite the agreed agreement between Italy and Slovenia, which was confirmed in the presence of the European coordinator for the sixth priority project, so that all the lines on this part will be two-track. The Minister of Transport says that for the construction to begin as soon as possible, his argument is that we cannot wait for a new two-track location plan, which will also include the connection of the route from Trieste to the Black Kal. Despite the fact that the ministry already knows that the existing site plan does not have the intended link between the Trieste line, we would still like to start building on the existing site plan, only to begin signing the first contract with the operators, although we already know that the final solution will be different, one that requires changes in the location plans that may lead to the beginning of the construction, but not if the Ministry of Environment and Space is more responsive. However, these procedures are legal and do not require additional activities when, during the construction itself, site plans, projects change and, of course, they result in an annexation and associated incentives. This kind of behavior, which apparently now begins with this second track, reminds us very much, in our opinion, and is all too similar to the practice that reminds us of some of the highway projects carried out in the past. There are changes in projects, additional works, annexes and consequently - promotions. Why changes, additions to projects, why extra work, why annexes? This is the next question for the Commission of Inquiry. Do not repeat yourself on the railways! That is also why this investigation is necessary and necessary. With the ambition of re-building the motorways with the findings and results of this parliamentary investigation, it already reveals in advance any deviations that may, on purpose or unintentionally, appear in the future major construction investments of economic public infrastructure facilities. At twenty-one points, as far as this investigation is concerned, a lot of work and effort will be required, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we expect to receive an answer to the basic and very simple question in the report at the end of this investigation. Why did the highway programme from the original €1.8 billion increase to €11.6 billion with a significant delay in completion? The implementation and financing of the motorway construction programme was also audited by the Court of Auditors, but the audit covered only the period from 2004 to the end of 2007. In the above case, we see that projects are actually set up much earlier, already in the planning phase, at the beginning when they are resolved and the first solutions are written. Therefore, in our view, the Court of Auditors would be much more credible if it focused on the whole period since the adoption of the first national highway construction programme since 1996 and not since 2004. Thus, we cannot get rid of the feeling that the Court of Auditors' audit wanted to cover only the period of the Government of a different omen. Therefore, it seems crucial to us that the parliamentary investigation covers the entire period of implementation of the motorway programme since the adoption of the first national programme in 1996. There is serious and reasonable doubt that the funds for the construction of these large investment facilities have been used inadvertently and imprudently. In the event of the construction of the motorway, the investigation should also verify the political responsibility for the choice of the way in which the motorways are to be deployed and determine whether other options have been checked in the broadcast, which could lead to a more rational spending of the taxpayer's money. In the case of motorways, the investigation should identify the responsibility of public function holders and respect for the rules and legislation relating to the drawing up of resources for the financing of the motorway programme and determine whether they have been spent deliberately and economically. There is a reasonable suspicion that it is a covert but coordinated political operation of individual public function holders and for covert interference in the chain: contracting - designer - contractor - control. This results in non-economic spending of taxpayers' money, corruption, tied business, clientism and unjustifiable benefits. There is therefore more than justifiable suspicion that the basic principles of public finance management have not been respected: the principle of economy, transparency, competitiveness, the public and supervision. It is therefore assumed that, despite the legislative framework established in this area, there is a systematic and continuous failure to respect or enforce the rules that have led to significant deviations from the economic and transparent consumption of taxpayers. However, the suspicion of direct or direct linkage between the construction companies and their legitimate representatives and the public function holders between the property transformation procedures and the management purchases of construction companies, especially the SCT, which has done the most since 1996 on motorway projects in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members. The investigation is in the public interest because despite all the legislation governing this area, the investment values in the construction of the motorways that this investigation is trying to cover have far exceeded their value.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the position of the Group is as follows. We really respect the Institute of Parliamentary Investigations in the Group. We are aware of the importance of this institution, which makes it possible in democracy to identify the political responsibilities of public officials in matters of public interest, and therefore our Members and Members are also involved in parliamentary investigative commissions and we are leading one of them in this mandate. That is why we also support this parliamentary investigative committee somehow because we are aware that there is real suspicion that there has been a lot of wrong in the construction of the Slovenian highway programme. We would like to point out, however, that there is also a risk that this institution of parliamentaryism, too, is being misused for political purposes by the parliamentary commission of inquiry. This has happened in the past, in previous mandates, and there is a great danger that this will also happen in this, the danger in this investigative committee, is even greater in what we will talk about next. Why such a thought in the Truth Group - for a simple reason, because the scope of this commission of inquiry is abnormal, lifeless, illogical and could still list these limits, so that we can realistically expect that there is a real desire for proper consideration of everything that has been going on during this period. We have been alerting ourselves since 1996 when the highway program began and when there were many mistakes, many irregularities, many ignorances, probably a lot of what we can say unfairly or even something that starts with no, but the extent of the commission of inquiry is simply too extensive. I come from a beautiful green Savinja Valley, where a farmer's logic applies and where they say nicely that if a pile of manure is too big, the fairies break quickly. It is impossible to expect that the Commission could properly process all this area of all 380 kilometres of motorways in use so that it could review exactly everything that has happened in the construction of 34 km of dedicated connecting roads in use and review everything that is happening in the sections just prior to opening or in preparation. Our assessment is that this is impossible, certainly not within less than four years of the end of this mandate. Therefore, there is a danger that such an investigative commission could focus only on certain cases that would serve - not by obtaining the correct and necessary data, findings, but for political accounting. I am sure that this will be very quickly clear when the Commission is drawn up and when the Commission prepares all the necessary preparatory actions and when it will draw up an evidentiary decision showing what are the cases to be investigated and which are those of the public functions to be defined in this programme. Otherwise, I repeat that our position that it is impossible is only a period since 1996 when it is 13 years old, but it is not an unfortunate number 13 but it is too long for all 11 points or all 21 points envisaged in the parliamentary investigation to be properly and accurately processed. In order not to do what is done, do additional damage or irregularities. If we have listened to a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members - not only for the period beyond us, in fact, the period before us is already the subject of this debate. We spoke or heard about the second rail track. It would also be good if, within this parliamentary commission of inquiry, the Members of the Zares Group would also participate in order to limit themselves to certain truly exceptional events or sections or cases that have taken place to individual periods, but not flatly for the whole period. Everything that was also said in the presentation of the purpose of the investigation is essentially true. I can also say the position; those who are in both functions, mayors and Members, that at each section that is being prepared, what is being done, things that are being pointed out by such local communities are being warned by experts, but they are going in certain cases on their own track, and certainly not without political influence. It is therefore appropriate to determine the impact of individual public function holders during this period, in individual sections. If I repeat where I come from, there is certainly a change of route in the Lower Savina Valley, a decision on the Trojan tunnel - there were decisions that were very much pointed out at that time. In order to draw attention to the revised prices, it was recalled that there had been a change in destination when the best agricultural land had been transformed into buildings and so on. That, not least, the interpretation already mentioned in 1999 pointed to this and nothing happened. It is therefore appropriate to establish correctly whether public function holders have been involved to the extent that this is necessary and that this responsibility can also be established and then accepted in the National Assembly. That is why we will participate in this commission of inquiry and will also strive to ensure that the programme and scope of work are such that it is realistic, that we can also report to the National Assembly on how the work is progressing, and that we really can come to these conclusions, not to cooperate, or that this investigator is intended to do what we are afraid of wanting someone to abuse it for political purposes. We'll be in the investigation. We hope and wish that the work programme will be adapted to the capacities of those who will participate in this investigative parliamentary commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u84	Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, my friend! In the fact that no parliamentary investigation or commission has so far produced the expected results, we have great doubts that this will be any different. It is primarily about identifying political responsibility - and nothing more. This is a long period in which we are supposed to seek political responsibility for participants only today, by or on the proposal of those who have had all formal and political power for this area for four years, and by the Signatories of the Slovenian People's Party all these years of their Minister of Transport. The signatories to the proposal for an investigative commission or to investigate political responsibility for developments in this area are interested only when they are not or are no longer present. When they are themselves responsible or responsible for developments in this area, they are not interested in political or other responsibilities. That's the problem! That is why the DeSUS Group has a negative position on this proposal, and this does not mean that we will not participate in this investigation to see what we can do to help this result not only in political responsibility but also in other responsibilities. Signatories referring to suspected corruption, customerism, problematic handouts or calls for proposals for a highway programme should therefore be charged with the competent state prosecutor's office, with a view to finding any other, not just political responsibility. If that is not the case, they do not intend to do so, the request for an investigative committee may be understood as a diversion of attention, but the taxpayers will not be returned even a cent of the money illegally used on the highway programme. I was a member of the Public Finance Supervisory Committee in the 1996-2000 mandate, and we discussed the report - Mr Verlič - of the Court of Auditors for the award of works on individual sections of motorways, which made it clear at that time that the works were given to those who offered the lowest price for the implementation of the project, but the contract was concluded for a far higher amount than the most expensive competitor. Since I was then asked what the National Assembly could do with such catastrophic activities of those responsible, I was given the answer in order to determine political responsibility. Since it is much better for a person not to know what is going on if there is nothing more to do than to seek political responsibility, then I stepped down from the Committee on Public Finance Supervision and paid a full day's wages when I was not at the next meeting, because the appointment procedure was different then and it stuck to my replacement in this body. But, anyway, I think that these things should also be investigated by criminal law, which could bring back to taxpayers at least a fraction of the money that may have been illegally spent for this expensive highway program, while the investigative commission will cause costs, results, in our opinion, what will not be much. We believe that the proposal is only about generating political points from which there can be some benefits for policy and that taxpayers are nothing. However, we will cooperate on this matter so that we can see where it will lead and if there is at least any spoil in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Parliamentary investigation is public and is in the public interest. It is true what the predecessor has said that the fact that justice is often sufficient, although the findings are valid and have a reasoned claim for the imposition of criminal proceedings, but it is not the fault of the investigative commission - it is the system which works with illegal factors in hand if you want to, with the Mafia. How can it happen, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a freeway leg that does not have a seat belt?Oh, my God! However, the basic project was foreseen for this withdrawal belt. Here in this first row stands an actor of this blockade, today it's not in the hall, I believe why it's not there. This investigation will also show this. The highway today is just a construction site, respectable. It's just a construction site. However, we have paid, like the proponents, as we have written down for what 41.7% of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on the expenditure side. Today it is 8.7 billion, with 700 million deficits. That's 4 billion money to split, and if you believe everything was okay here, then I'll tell the real story, which is one of the many that's been going on. Signature of the contract. Today's lunch, after lunch, it's an annex to the contract. Anex goes beyond, can also be 30% higher than the first one signed in the first contract. And, please, don't tell me that this isn't corruption, customerism, the mob, that it's not something you should be convicted of. I have repeatedly stressed for this speaker that we need to check the performers, the responsibility of the performers to work on these highway programs, and that has now, thank God, also come to this. The whole of Europe laughed at us when the shale tunnel collapsed. The Italians are still looking for justice for the Trojan tunnel, and in the end, our contractor had to correct these mistakes and we paid them dearly. Not to mention how quality works are done on highway programs that are, you say, already finished. In view of the suspicion that biased transactions and mutually linked transactions, also run by official state policy, this must be investigated. It is right that this commission says bob beans and opens up this dirty area, of course this mess that has been going on for years and years, you say, some people have been stressing here: the biggest project in Slovenia. Please, the biggest shit in Slovenia is this, the most money has been stolen from this portfolio! Finding and proving or denying that such connections involved blackmail and political harsh instructions among individuals in the chain is our duty. I believe that we will write, as I have said recently, one mountain of paper, but I also believe that official policy will once again be so much in solidarity with all those who have done so in their private interests that nothing will happen to them, and that is true. Why is that? You don't have to guess. Probably other institutions like the Church benefit from this money buyer. Many things have come back from these titles. Maybe we'll find out. Interestingly, the performers who did the work were extremely generous to all the applicants, and they did not know what they were saying: no. As has already been said, it is a shame that the new motorway programmes require serious reconstructions and construction do not even have a retirement band, although in the projects that were essentially designed and validated here in the National Assembly, the contractors were obliged to do so. There's something else I'd like to point out. By voting in this National Assembly, the National Assembly issued guarantees for the rental of loans to Dars, and the projects were then financed from this title. But the National Assembly never asked about the quality of the works performed. He didn't call anyone to account. Why are we so irresponsible about public finances, but if we find that we have spent almost 42% of the budget on what we have today? It's one big shit, a danger, a traffic hazard, and I don't say how much it costs us. We have repeatedly noted that the Minister has repeatedly said that the system of financing motorways is no longer self-sustaining and that we will have to think about significantly encouraging the highway so that we can service existing open credits at all. For this, respectable and respected, someone is responsible. If we've already paid so dearly for these highways, then at least we should have quality. I've taken other highways, too. They were also built there by builders who received the concession, and believe me, the highway from Zagreb to Split is also new. There are very few open construction sites on this highway and it is very quality built. I don't know who did these highways there.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u88	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. Good-bye. Members of the Slovenian People's Party signed the request for a parliamentary inquiry for two basic reasons. The first is that it is likely necessary in Slovenia to determine whether this major project has involved the construction of highways in Slovenia for irregularities and illegal procurement and irregular construction. We are witnessing that there are many flat-rate assessments, all in Slovenia, which are in some way inclined to build something, we are already experts from everything and this flat-rate assessment that highways are illegally built, illegally built, must be in such a way as an investigative commission, even insulted or confirmed. Secondly, the supervisory function of Members is one of the fundamental constitutional rights and duties; especially when it comes to such a large project, which is largely financed by taxpayers today and in the future, the burdens of this project will be on our shoulders. We will therefore vote in favour of the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry. Construction of highways, we have already heard, is a major project, important for the Slovenian economy and for the whole country in particular with two aspects. At the time of its independence, the project represented a so-called new start-up of the economy. Experience also tells us from other countries that highway construction is always a national project that is built around a good decade and that other countries have also used between 1.5% and 2.5% of GDP per year, which means that such a highway cross costs 15 to 25% of GDP there and in this case it will be no different. Motorways also mean an urgent link within Slovenia, as well as the world's transport lines, thereby improving and facilitating transport in Slovenia, increasing road safety and all of this is a very important factor in our private life as well as in the economy and other important systems of the country, and it is unacceptable that this development project is subject to the dark shadows of possible corruption and illegal behaviour, so it is right to either confirm or reject. The motorway project marks another important feature, a large increase in the value of the joint project and individual routes, even though the volume of construction, the number of routes and the length of the motorway has also increased significantly. Members of the SLS support the investigation because it is in the public interest to determine whether, despite all the legislation governing this area, the investment value of projects has ultimately reached an unacceptable increase in value. Therefore, perhaps the most significant and most important point is the 20th point in the proposal for this investigation, which states that we want to verify all procedures from planning, placing routes, to changes in projects before and during construction, in particular those where the final price of the project has deviated significantly from the original, with a view to determining whether any abuses of the situation, corruption and inadvertent spending of all money to achieve the private benefits of the company and individuals, or, as has already been said today, that in some way, the assessment of this motorway cross has also failed all important decision makers and that, in fact, it has already been known in advance that there will be various changes, increases, indeed higher costs, as originally planned at the beginning. Our Group supports the investigation, and it also supports the fact that we know that in recent years many ministers who led the Transport Ministry have come from our own species and we are convinced that ministers have acted with due diligence and credibility and have acted in accordance with the legal powers of the State Council, so we do not run from this investigation, and we want any flat-rate assessments of the work of these ministers to be rejected or confirmed as incorrect, as we have said. We support the investigation in order to discover and or, if someone within the services, in the companies working on the highway project, to take advantage of their position and to cause unnecessary spending of money. This is how we will support this investigation and we want it to complete its work and finally this shadow of doubt in this project is rejected or confirmed as we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u90	Respectable. This parliamentary inquiry is or will be initiated upon request. Therefore, the debate on whether or not someone will support it is irrelevant, since the National Assembly must introduce it. But, of course, in my deep conviction, as it is set up, it is simply impossible for a mission. For the first time, because it is contrary to Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Indeed, it is very clear that the parliamentary commission of inquiry is set up to identify and assess the circumstances and facts in the event that this should serve to decide in the National Assembly and to exercise the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. In this case, it is obviously something that has been set up from 1996 until 2009 or beyond, because some things have been adopted a long time ago, in the resolution, in this year's annual programme, in other acts adopted by this National Assembly and will continue and are in implementation and will probably remain in the process for a decade or more, if we are speaking, of the third development axis and so on. Well, you have to ask yourself, did the National Assembly say it to himself? I understand that it is pronounced by those who have guided some departments of the years and years and say, and now let us examine whether we have done the right thing. I don't know what he's doing. I'm talking about the signatories to the request for this commission of inquiry. But see, the National Assembly adopted the Resolution on the National or National Programme in 1993 and then in 1994 and 1995, it was published in 1996. Each year an annual programme was adopted on the basis of which activities were carried out in this area. Each year, the Transport Committee, for the Environment, etc., considered a report on activities carried out, spent money, etc. In the meantime, it was possible to find out everything: why, for how long, when, and who will do these things, or who will not do them, lie, steal them, I don’t know what — and nothing. Every year. And also governments were changing, there was one, there was another since 1996, there was a third, there was a fourth, and now there is a fifth government in this period. The basis for these - you can go to see Article 93 of the Constitution, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, where it clearly and otherwise regulates as much as any of our work, the work of the Commission of Inquiry, where it also gives powers of inquiry in a manner such as that of the Criminal Procedure Act and so on. All these things were available, they should have been triggered in every particular suspicion that something was wrong: Don’t tell me that we warned you I don’t know what and so on. It is a matter of determining the responsibility of public officials, i.e. members of governments, ministers and so on, not whether one construction company built a shale tunnel correctly, or whether the planners placed the route exactly where it was or deliberately mapped where the construction was the most expensive, longest and possibly harmful to the environment, because it was done. Even if we wanted to, this National Assembly can neither identify nor place the responsibility of the holders of political functions under this title. However, in specific matters, in particular, it may be for those who have made decisions on behalf of the investor. The government, the minister and so on, do it. But that's not what you do by saying, I don't know what 24, 25 points are, with very diverse bases, baselines, what you want. Finally, there will be a question of what exactly we would like to say. It is probably just a matter of changing the way that we work in this country, showing that everything was wrong or that we are constantly proving that everything was wrong, that others were doing, that we introduce some state of emergency and that we are suspending Parliament from the basic role it has: adopting legislation, adopting guidelines for work in the fields, as at the first point of today's resolution to regulate certain things in some area, it is carrying out its other constitutional tasks, not that it is translated into a general 16-year and multi-year period. Someone here said in decades that we should do this. But there's a lot of options. If you suspect that it is any matter in, say, a benched tunnel, including the National Assembly on the basis of its structure, its rules of procedure and so on, it may consider the material, it requires the Government, from Dars, and so on, it is considered thoroughly. I heard it was information. But if these effects are to be achieved, then the mechanisms are available and more effective. Every case in particular. If we're going to see ministers, I don't know if I'm going back to Wlačič, Žerjav, Bergauer, Christmas, I don't know, because I can't count them. All of you will be interrogated for all these projects, all the heads of government. Mr. Bajuk will have to come, I don't know, from America, I'm from Argentina. As much as it'll cost, after all. That's what this is about. If you want to find out who is responsible in this country for any matter of political responsibility, then you have to deal with these things in this way, not the general question of how expensive it is. I think a lot of things are illogical to me, too. I know that there were 83 variants and subversions across the Trojans, and I don't know what, but I thought they had chosen the most impossible option. But this was decided by the profession, this was the basis for our further work and so on. Now we're gonna check all this stuff out. All right. I don't know if we're really taking the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation to some absurdity. It would be far more fair that there, when you mention specific cases, specific transactions and if you suspect that something is wrong to report it to the relevant authorities. To process it the way it's done. It is now necessary to hold a political debate here, including lynching those who have nothing to do with the purpose of parliamentary investigations. These are various designers, directors, owners from construction, design companies, and I don't know which companies, now we're going to be pushing them to the cross here, and we're going to be looking at how they drove that road right over there across a farm that's built on the black house to make it even more complicated, say, in Mirna Peca or I don't know where else. In the end, we come to absurdity and talk about it. There is no doubt that we all want a clear, transparent review of every euro of public money spent on public infrastructure. But by doing so, you are questioning all decisions made by the National Assembly in the last sixteen years. All decisions of the National Assembly and Government and ministries and Darsa and that all those involved in these matters are potential thugs. That's not true, and that's not fair. So, of course, the method of political struggle you've chosen is, unfortunately, reversed from my point of view. Let's deal with each case individually, come here, tell us, bring some evidence, not just what people like to get out of here, who's all a thief. Bring it if you have anything else in your hands. You've also had the opportunity to process something for four years. Nothing. So now you will also consider what you brought into the National Assembly. Yeah, maybe it would be a good parliamentary investigation into why you invented an adventure with vignettes. Inadvertently, unprepared. But that's not in there. Because you know who was the bearer of the one who was the one who intended to earn the toll. They're specific people, specific companies. Mr Verlic knows the most because he had to do some things as I heard from the former minister, that some things were just things that needed to be done. God ordered it, and it happened. But it can be that these decisions were not all in the interests of public interest, for the benefit of citizens and citizens. They were demagogos, in terms of political rhetoric and battles, how to gather people and so on. The bill will be paid by citizens and citizens in one way or another and will, of course, move on to others. But that's not a big point either, because that's what sparrows are talking about, which is what I'm talking about right now. That even those who were excited about it now realize that the account will come or that it is coming. But look into this, explore everything. Just don't give the Slovenian public the impression that you're doing a noble act to fight to find out all the loony bins. Even that judicial branch and that other branch of authority, you had there or you have very strong influences and connections. We could have done a lot of things. But what they have to do in other branches of government, when certain things have to be processed and done, this cannot be done, nor can the National Assembly do. Otherwise, the separation of these two, the three branches of authority, as it was done, would not be possible. It wasn't done by accident. We are not here to judge every case in this country. Of course, no responsibility. For the last time, I read a statement from the Attorney-General saying that if I could be judged or asked by those who just talk about certain crimes, etc., it would be different. But you have to stand by your words and your actions. And in this context, it is also very precisely laid down in Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation that a parliamentary inquiry has to refer to determining whether someone was directly responsible as the holder of a political function, that there has been a bias and the matter. And I have also taken myself into this debate, although I firmly believe that if a parliamentary inquiry is required and meets the conditions, it should be established. And that's how this one's gonna be established. But if it's four hours and more, let's have a little more discussion. As it is said, I will observe how it will, we will also observe in the parliamentary club, how you will set up or how a parliamentary commission will be set up without a vote, and how you will be successful in detecting all that you have set up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I support this kind of parliamentary investigation, although the addresses of these and many other parliamentary commissions could be reduced accordingly, they could make them more understandable for the people. With this parliamentary investigative commission, we will have to ask ourselves, both today and in the future, what is typical of the construction of Slovenian highways. The first feature is certainly that they are overly expensive, more expensive than they are elsewhere in Europe. Apparently, on a mile of built highway, there's a lot more attached to us and a lot more. Apparently, funds are also accounted for within a kilometer of the motorway for the management purchases of individual companies. It is likely that corruption and clientism are also built into the kilometers of highways to obtain a particular business. The feature of building Slovenian motorways is also that they are being built very, very slowly. Today Croatia was mentioned here, where in three years they made a nice move from Zagreb to Split. Last but not least, the feature of building Slovenian motorways is that for every kilometer, we have a noisy opening. One of them will be open tomorrow as the section of the Slivnica-Drazenci road opens. Anyone who attends this opening tomorrow will likely be able to see on the scene many of those who might be invited to the commission of inquiry as a witness or even as an investigator. As I said, I think this parliamentary inquiry is useful. About two years ago, I was with fellow Members of Parliament in Washington, where we talked to the US senators about this very topic of the investigative commission in the United States and with us. They introduced us to one of the investigative commissions that was involved in the construction of American highways two or three decades ago. It was run by the senator of the Slovenian family. In America two or three decades ago, they built 10,000 miles [10,000 km] of highways and hundreds of bridges. At that time, U.S. public opinion began to speculate that this construction was a type of irregularity, and the U.S. Congress set up an investigative commission. A number of current or former FBI staff also participated in this commission of inquiry. After a few years, they came to horrifying conclusions as to what was going on in this area. For example, one of the frightening findings or events is that the bridge in Minnesota collapsed in 2007. The Bush administration has already clearly predicted that there are 5,000 bridges in America that are not safe, which are dangerous. And the project to rebuild these bridges will continue with the new administration. And what does it matter? It is important that, on the basis of this parliamentary investigation in the United States, 60 people were sent to prison at the end of the year. Of course, something like this can't happen in Slovenia. When we get a thief with his hand in his pocket or in a bank safe, he is, of course, slightly forgiven in court, because the legal culture of the Slovenian justice system is not on the side of truth and justice. Maybe if I stayed with America for a while. The last recent parliamentary investigation in the United States was in 2005 and later, then due to Hurricane Katrina, which ravaged seven U.S. states. As you know, the greatest damage was in New Orleans, where more than 1,800 dead, 700 and more people were missing. This parliamentary inquiry in the US Congress has also established the responsibility of local, state and federal officials. What does this investigator want? This Commission of Inquiry would like to find, in particular, the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. That's why it's being established, and that's what it's all about. On the other hand, the findings of this Commission could also have some broader implications. It is that all those - if proven of course - who have the basis of corruption in some genetic record are withdrawn from the policy and that all those who acquire business on public procurement and in public procurement by means of corruption are removed from the public procurement of enormous values, because all of this is costly for the construction of Slovenian highways. And we all end up paying for it anyway. Nevertheless, I have some hope and optimism that this commission of inquiry could come up with certain results so that perhaps even someone in this country would respond. It's just that nobody in this country has ever been in charge of anything. The probability of someone being held responsible or punished for a similar business, for what business is going on on the Slovenian highway network or highway cross, is nothing. With this we sent a clear signal because all the actors in this business had pure immunity, because no one has ever happened to anyone before, we sent a clear signal that these businesses are simply paying off. Perhaps this investigator will be a step towards future changes in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u93	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Willie Rezman. Mr. Györek Miran.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, there are skeptics in the National Assembly regarding the initiation of this commission and the conduct of the investigation. In the Slovenian National Party, we are co-signed by this proposal or this requirement. But there's something I'd still like to say why the investigative committee does or doesn't. Everyone has their own reasons and vice versa. We all agree with the fact that Slovenian motorways are generally the most expensive roads in the world. We all know that there has been an increase in corruption in this business. We all know that one pile of construction lobby was built at the expense of taxpayers. We all know that our money has been spent, which we would now absolutely need in order to alleviate the problems that we have as a result of the economic crisis. As signatories to this requirement, however, we understand reasonably that the results of this parliamentary inquiry will not penalise the culprits for these dear roads, nor will they return the money. However, there is something that could have been done in the face of such an investigation, but there would have been no such major economic damage. The purpose or purpose of the investigation is good, and there are quite a few. It's good to familiarize the public with them. But I'm afraid I'm going to keep telling you the results. Example. To determine whether projects have been carried out transparently and with care. We all know they weren't. The culprits won't be found. To determine whether tenders and signed contracts have been carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines. Formally, yes, the culprits will not be found. Identify and clarify the conditions and procedures for the award of public procurement, tenders, negotiations and the content of tenders. We all know there's been some kind of machination here. Now who are you going to find guilty? So it won't be possible. To determine whether all legislation was respected in the implementation of the projects. He never has, and he doesn't respect himself today. The culprit will always be able to find an excuse. To determine whether the budgetary resources for the use of funds have been drawn up rationally, intentionally and in accordance with the rules. It's funny that I'm even explaining this or explaining it because you all know that's not the case. To determine whether public function holders have handled all due care and investment procedures. Certainly not. To establish, disprove or prove that the proceedings involved abuses by public function holders and thus unjustifiable benefits and corruption. Where are these culprits now, where will you find them? One may already be in Argentina, one may be in America, one in Germany, one I don't know where. How do you prove it? That's what the predecessor was talking about. In fact, it's Sisyphus' work. It's impossible to figure it out. To determine whether the additional works which increased the basic investment values were real or were the result of a pre-arranged procedure. Of course. You all know how they do their jobs today, how they deal with each other. But he won't be guilty again. At least you won't be able to prove him guilty. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders and their political impact on the selection, negotiation and signature of the contract. And, unfortunately, this is a cruel reality. In all these major projects, public function holders are always involved, which, of course, is never evident in this country. And even in this case, you won't find any responsible culprits. Identify the level of political responsibility of individual public function holders in the execution of individual projects. That's a ridiculous purpose. What political responsibility does anyone else have in this country? Identify, prove or disprove the State's alleged injury to individual projects. But who is the victim, if not the state, of an indirect people? But once again, there will be no culprit, since this was done collectively, there is not one person to blame. To find, prove or disprove the suspicion that such links involved blackmail and political guidance among individuals in the chain. What do you mean?Oh, my God! I don't know which way to proceed with the evidence, but you know that's impossible. It is said that there will be no results here as well. Identify the responsibility of the holders of public functions in the preparation of tenders, their links and prior arrangements with the tenderers. How do we imagine to prove that?Oh, my God! And this will have to be proved with the documents, this will have to be proved with the testimony. So the result is completely negative. To establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that the award of public contracts by public function holders was favoured by an individual of tenderers, which prevented competition. That's the rule with us. They know which companies have been favoured, they are still favoured, even though they are compromised, and on the other hand, to prevent competition is clear. But how will you prove it now? Once again, it is necessary to have this documentation, the testimony. This is a procedure that is impossible to carry out. So here's a bunch of intentions that make sense, but I'm afraid it won't produce the fruits that we want. But it's worth a try. I am sure that if such investigations were to be launched in the future, they would not harm, but in any event they could stop this growing corruption, the growing building lobby and not list any of the harmful consequences that we have in this society just because we have left everything behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. President? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Milan Gumzar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the National Assembly. In principle, I agree with the commission of inquiry to establish political responsibility in the execution of construction investments of public interest, as the applicants have in fact collected sufficient numbers of signatories, fellow Members, and there is nothing to discuss. It should be stressed, however, that the Commission will only be able to investigate public function holders. If we are aware that only one political party led the Ministry of Transport from 1996 to today, there are many questions that I will not talk about today, but we can get different answers and different explanations. However, I am sure that the Commission will not contribute to better and transparent implementation of works in the area of road construction and other public buildings. However, it will be very difficult to identify irregularities if they have been at all since 1996 and I think that this Commission will be working on this entire mandate and will not end the work, so there will be no great success of that, of course. It's gonna be something else. There will be a lot of talking and there will be a lot of public speaking and, of course, it will be very difficult to prove irregularities if they were at all. However, I will be very pleased if these irregularities are proved and if anyone is responsible for these irregularities and we will, of course, be given answers to all the questions raised in the commission of inquiry itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer. It is interesting that in some of the explanations of individual Members we can find that they are actually denying what the National Assembly has adopted. I explained in the introduction, on behalf of the applicant, that the act authorising a parliamentary inquiry was in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 93, and that it was in line with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which was adopted by the National Assembly in 1993 and completed for ten years. I don't know where any of the dilemmas came from, whether it's in conflict here or whether the case is justified. It is a well-founded case and a parliamentary inquiry is necessary. As regards the mere guesses of some around vinjets, the introduction of vinjets and tolling themselves. It is likely that this parliamentary inquiry will be able to determine with certainty how much money has been spent with various upgrades of the so-called abc system, which has worked very well and has filled some hard pockets. As regards the scope of the investigation, of course we can agree on this. The period from 1996 to today or until the end of this mandate is a very large period. This is a period of sixteen years. It is important to know, however, that the purpose of this parliamentary inquiry is to find connections, to come up with a formula that makes calculation quite simple and does not require not knowing any great or greater science. What I think is very important is to stress, but it is one of the positions where we have heard what, in fact, privatisation legislation means at this stage. Just in the past period, for which the parliamentary investigation will also look at things, it will be possible to determine how the ownership of the SCT took place. One of the parliamentary investigative commissions has already dealt with this and if we look at who is the one who filled the pension fund, it is certain that the Capital Company, which was established precisely to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance. From this point of view, questions are raised as to whether it is not right for the DeSUS Group to be concerned in any way. For today we find that there is less money and that there are even questionable pensions. In order to avoid this, the parliamentary investigation will point out or point to known formulas that do not occur in the future. I am convinced when we are talking about a parliamentary investigation that we are really talking about a broad period of time in which much has been going on in the area of the construction of the highway programme. If we followed some economic calculations, we could find that the price per kilometer of built highway was far beyond the economic framework, which in itself raises the question of what was actually going on when the highway was built. As I said, some of the important companies that had the greatest role and function in a negative sense were owned because they did not want public money to be used rationally and economically. Things came out clearly on the day, but the right measures against the most responsible were not. There were some beginnings, no real sequel, even though things are still on. The parliamentary inquiry is certainly necessary on behalf of the proposer. It is based on enough solid foundations to be established and to start work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u99	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. Vice President. I am convinced that the establishment of an investigative commission is necessary and that, however, the parliamentary commission set up in Parliament means at least some slightly less sweet sleep. Of course, it is not true that only those responsible or responsible for public functions are invited to the hearings, but that public hearings should come to anyone or to whom the Commission decides, regardless of what the task is, whether they are in the past or at this point in time. I myself led an investigative commission, which was very receptive and shaking some of the pants in Slovenia. But like today, the media have put themselves on the side of capital, czech, without connection, no results, etc. But it must be made clear that even then, and many of the investigators had the results, came to conclusions, came to conclusions, but, of course, the policy of the ruling coalition here in the National Assembly prevented this from being addressed. That's when we called attention to the shit that was going on in Elan. And look where Elan is today. That's when we warned about the pigs in Smelt, Tam, Metal and so on. And all of this came about because it turned out that even the third branch of power with the second branch, the legislative branch, along with the first branch, had been corrupt, the government branch of power as the criminal code and the law on criminal proceedings changed here. And those who had already been convicted had not sat for one minute, even though they had legal convictions. And this third branch, the judiciary, the judge held judgment for nine months in a drawer, because he was also the perpetrator of this court's duties, of course, is incomprehensible. And here's the original sin. And because of this, you know, colleagues and colleagues, parliamentarians and parliamentarians, a bad light falls on those who want to speak publicly about pigs. It's not like we're hitting on someone, it's just so that it doesn't just happen anymore. That is why today we have some individuals who are successful, prominent. But being successful and respectable is the criterion for having a million profits a year, of course I'm talking about euros, otherwise it's unrelated. You have to lie, have mailboxes and so on, then you can be at the top of politics, even among ministers and so on. This investigative committee, I'm sure, will find out a lot of shit. Like, every day, I'm driving through the Trojan highway system. There were a lot of options. Why, though, did she choose exactly the most expensive option? Yeah, because he was in the back of a lobby that suited him. Look, there's no day I'm driving around this highway, so we don't have to fix anything on these viaducts on this highway section. Great, you have to go to the most expensive viaduct variant, not only because of that, but also because you have a job for the next 50 years guaranteed and you can sleep well in the middle of the summer with thick skin. I believe it will also prove to be influenced by the elite. But not that positive elite, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in for these positive elites on a professional level, on a scientific level, on any level, but here was one part of the elite of some individuals, [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] who have put themselves in this role of political elites who have actually made no arguments, but of course it appears, not directly, but indirectly, that they have different parcels, different weekends, different yachts [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! The national highway construction programme, in general the construction of motorways, is certainly a first-class media theme and not only a media theme, but a topic that has occupied and will occupy all governments and, finally, our Members in the future and has occupied in the past. We have seen how and how this subject has been addressed in the past. Some Members, as well as Members' groups, have made their views clear enough on the introduction of the Commission of Inquiry. That this is an important topic was also realized by the Government and, finally, our coalition and is therefore at its 11th meeting. 12. Established an interdepartmental working group from representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Dars. This working group was set up to prepare a proposal for measures to finance highway and road programmes and to re-examine the entire road system in the Republic of Slovenia. This group reached the following conclusions after two months of analysis. The existing model of financing motorway programmes in the short and long term is not sustainable. This is said to be the case that the existing funding system is not sustainable in the short term or in the long term because the share of the debt in the financing is too large or is growing too fast. Why there are such causes, the question or these causes is too much and something. A further increase is expected in the coming years and an increase in the gap between concession fee and annual financial commitments is expected. Of course, it can be found that there are several reasons for this situation: general indebtedness for the implementation of the annual programmes and projects after 2004, while at the same time the budget cuts, the 2002 Purposes Act for the period 2004 and 2008, the requirements for investments outside the motorway network, these were around EUR 500 million, which do not generate tolls and therefore concession fees, but represent only an additional burden for an already too small cake, in the last period of funding for renewals on the already built motorway network, mostly through debt, and this debt was quite extensive, annually, EUR 60 to 70 million, an increase in investment value in some sections, an open motorway system until the introduction of a vineyard system that allowed the collection of to be made up to 70 % of the transported kilometres along the motorway, although we know that this system would not have been introduced into one of the road financing. The volume of toll increased nominally by only 2.4% between 2004 and 2008 and the expected increase was far higher. As a result, the lack of funds was courageous. In order to complete the basic highway programme, the national highway construction programme requires Dars approximately € 1.6 billion. For all these reasons, Dars is not financially able to carry out an additional motorway programme, not so-called development axes, in the context of the financial engineering of the National Investment Programme. It's a sad fact, but a cruel reality that we've come up with with a policy that we've been leading so far. According to the findings, this Interdepartmental Group has drawn up a proposal for short- and long-term measures. Certain measures are certainly necessary, but it is likely that it would be good to continue planning and designing electronic tolls in the free movement of all vehicles, as this is also the result of inflows, daily inflows and the upgrading of the Dars-Agenda-Concession Treaty with a view to establishing a true concessional relationship. The real concessional relationship between Darsa and the State has not been established and the regular contract has not been implemented. All the economic and legal analyses so far have shown that, given the existing contract for regulating relations, this is not a true concessional relationship. This concession ratio must certainly be well upgraded and defined. In view of the fact that the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry under the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is to identify and assess public matters of public interest, I personally expect from this Commission that, on the basis of an assessment of the actual situation, it will also prepare a basis for decision-making in the National Assembly, not only on the political responsibilities and influences of the holders of public functions, and also propose possible legislative changes to a particular area, as proposed or indicated by this Inter-Commission. The Commission of Inquiry has always been a first-class topic and, as such, a first-class theme of certain entertainment for some. In the light of the experience of all the investigative commissions so far, we have seen that none of these investigative commissions has had a distinctive magic wand that would be able to resolve all matters. And this commission of inquiry will only be able to take a certain step and propose to the National Assembly that things be a little clearer in this area. It would be useful for me to analyse in more detail the introduction of an open tolling system and, in particular, a vignette system that has caused such a shortfall in funds in such a surplus. This has caused quite a shortage, and I think it will be a problem that we will also feel in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u103	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The last time we talked about the annual road development and renewal plan for 2009, I made it clear that we have a major and serious road problem in Slovenia, as there is a deliberate delay in building road links, more precisely highways, and of course there is also an increase in construction prices. And then we get in the end I don't know how many times the amount to be built, even though at the beginning the planned amount was significantly lower. Of course, all of this comes from either tax or public money. That is why the Commission of Inquiry, which we are talking about here today, must be established. Of course, at the same time, I am very surprised that, in fact, the coalition Members are not actually in this Chamber today. Maybe they have a bad conscience. When Minister Vlačič took office, I said myself that I thought he might be a good traffic minister. But only if, as a transport minister, he can step on the fingers of the road lobby, to step on the fingers of these clienteleistic connections, as well as the corrupt acts that are still very difficult to detect in our country. However, when we detect them, we need much more time to condemn those who are responsible for such acts. Since there are very strong political connections between the road lobby and the courts, it is happening that we do not actually resolve anything. We sweep everything under the rug. In my view, this is becoming extremely unhygienic and not good for this social space we are in. In fact, it's a kind of vicious circle where they protect each other. But when it comes to a point where someone should be judged for some of the acts that have been proved, then it is swept under the rug, and it is said that perhaps everything was not so bad in that act. To go back. In fact, I expected Minister Vlacic himself to step up against such links, to make order in this area, and to ensure strict control over the use of money that runs out of the state budget for the construction of motorways and usually runs out when the foundation stone is laid. It is said that already when we begin to build motorways, we have an estimated amount, but we must continue to increase this amount again. Here I have a very serious question, or I am seriously interested in who actually does these calculations, on what they come from - how much some construction will cost, but if in the end it always exceeds the amount that was first presented. And even work, we have to be clear, it's not always done the way it should be. We can also see this today as we drive along highways, when on every 5 meters there are warning boards to fix something to repair it, to briefly rebuild highways. But you know what's interesting - mostly with no employees. So, in this country, we have clearly roads that are self-repairing and repairing. A unique phenomenon in the European Union. And the money, the poof, probably flies off into the air somewhere. During the period of Janez Janša or the government of Janez Janša, this abnormal road network, which built years and years, began to break down and is still building, which was also allowed to stall by procedures. But the consequences can be felt today. Also very specific - bad asphalt, problems with opening of tunnels when the barrier falls from the tunnels. The government of Janez Janša wanted to do such an unusual job. But what happens in our country when someone starts some procedures that would start doing this Slovenian country normally? At the time, most of them did not wonder whether there had really been corruption, it is said, it was not a key question, but it was a key question of how it was possible that they had come for Mr Zidar with a stamp. How can this Slovenian police be so terrible that they dare something like that? But it's not that important. What worries me most at this point in time, and I also claim that the introduction of the Commission of Inquiry is justified, is the fact that there is a reasonable suspicion that in the case of road lobbying there is a disguised and coordinated political action, which results in the non-economic spending of taxpayers, resulting in corruption and, of course, clienteleism. It would be high time in this country to end such shopping under the table, malversions, and finally to create order where laws will be respected, where corruption and customerism will be condemned, irrespective of political affiliation, irrespective of the discoloration, to finally end the exploitation of individuals. The last time we talked about the annual highway development plan, I was talking about the section of the construction of the Razdrto - Vipava or Ribrnica highway, where I come from and, of course, I am constantly facing the weights on this highway. And like all those who come from this end, we rightly expect that this highway section will finally be built. I had already said that it was deliberately delayed by construction, it was deliberately delayed by calls, it was also manipulated, and the money was obviously leaking into private pockets. Of course, at the same time, the public were all cleverly deceived by the fact that this section had not been built for so long or was not built solely because of the terrain’s configuration and the laxity of the terrain. And when the government of John Janša decided to finally make an end of it, it was said that it was only a populist pre-election move in today’s ruling coalition that it would come to the fore. But here we need to know clearly that it is a matter of ordinary communication by the coalition when cancelling any arguments. For it is clear that everything that occurs before the elections, even if a year and a half before or two months earlier, is pre-eminent. And since it comes from politics, of course it is clear that it is also political. I don't see any problem here alone, because it is the public's interest. First, find out where this taxpayer's money is going and who's taking advantage of the highway construction. Secondly, why are certain sections of highways taking so long to be built? Thirdly, why construction amounts are significantly higher after finishing work. These are questions that we need to discuss and that the public rightly expects answers. I think that this Commission of Inquiry is the only solution at this point in time for us to get answers to such and similar questions, so I will support it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is significant that none of the Government is present in the debate on the determination of the investigation. This shows the political will of the current government and the authorities to reveal in Slovenia some of the horrendous dimensions of corruption, irregularities in public procurement, the placement of public money that harms every taxpayer and every citizen. This government has different priorities. The latest footage from a number of CASs shows that your cashiers are on purely other hippodromes. They're galloping for money. And they've galloped before. Yesterday's appointment of Director of the Triglav Insurance Company, when it suddenly became apparent that the most serious candidate of the rulings was involved in a number of suspicious transactions. And that's the frame. This power, which now has a government, has always been decisive in the road lobby, despite being ministers from the People's Party and the Christian Democrats. It was decided in the former LDS. The de facto minister sat there, and de jure was from the human party. And we all know who the de facto minister was always on the road. And now they have a minister. As a result, the observation of today’s circumstances here is very interesting. Government clients are skeptical. That's what my colleague Anderlich said: Mission impossible. They're really afraid of that kind of investigation. That part of DeSUS, which represents those who set up DeSUS as a transmission by another party, is against. I hope not all Members of this opinion. That those who later came along have a serious political intention that there is something transparent in this country. I'm not surprised. As has been said, at the time of your minister's appointment, it has been shown who holds hands with them, how they are decided, even though they are not party members, they are under control. And so we have a situation where there is no interest. Last but not least, on behalf of the largest government party, a colleague who otherwise hardly discusses librarianism was discussed, so you ordered it. I'm not surprised. I'll go back to history. Road lobby, road area is the area where the most money was stolen in this country. Billions and billions went for privatisation, for property. Billions and billions went to private buildings, to purchase farms of certain people who have become farmers because of these needs - formal, even though they are engaged in other philosophies. Billions and billions of dollars have gone away. As a result, those who have benefited, including political parties that have benefited the most, are today not interested in clearing up. What a strong interest it was to maintain the impact on this lobby is illustrated by the situation when a strong Liberal democracy won in 2000. The Minister was Mr Bergauer and the People's Party went into coalition. Tone Bergauer was so skilled that he figured out the logic and ways of working in LDS. And sometimes he could promise the LDS he'd do it, but he did it his way. When they created the coalition, the People's Party said you can keep the Ministry, only Bergauer you can't have. And then they are, I'm a positive colleague of the Presecnik here, whatever you're investigating, you won't be able to personally implicate him in any money for his account. I trust him so much. But you've already known that he's such a man that he won't insist on deciding that others behind the scenes will lead the LDS to keep the primate. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, well, unfortunately, I tell him positively that he's not that aggressive, and he has a different morality, and maybe he's given up sometimes. The system of de facto minister and de jure minister has been on this area forever. I hope it is now the first time that he is de facto and de jure minister in the same person. And that's good. Here, when we identify some things that can be done with an investigative commission, I see that some signatories are also unaware of the purpose and political functions and the political importance of the investigative commissions. This institute is not free of charge in old democracies. In the media, everyone makes fun of the fact that our investigation boards don't achieve anything. That's not true. My friend Pukšič said what he had achieved, how his pants were shaking, and then Elan remained in Slovenia, otherwise everything would have been distributed, determined how it was going in foreign hands and how they would suck in benefits and money. Then they had to find money for recapitalisation overnight to rebuild Elan's activities, but then another plan was made. This is a blood business, where the then-major executives with the strong billions cooperated and brought Elan back before the bankruptcy, because their original plan did not come true because it was prevented by the investigative commission. The Commission of Inquiry will also have tectonic consequences in this case, I assure you. The investigative commissions are political commissions, and today, for example, the 19th point can be confirmed and will be confirmed by any investigative commission based on the responses of witnesses who will avoid the right answers that will protect - many witnesses will protect corruption, non-transparent use of public money, irregularities in procurement, in design. We can say: not that there is suspicion, but that there were interest groups and their links with public function holders, their corrupt influence on Dars' control authorities and the choice of construction workers to achieve unjustified benefits. This will be the commission, I assure you now, has to write it down because it is known and this is the purpose of the commission to write it down. The capital will, of course, do everything possible to make negative comments today on the investigative commissions in our media - at least some that are being led. It will call for failure, but it is not true, even though capital and financial oligarchy are so powerful in this country on the basis of the Jewish money that it has ripped from the shells of workers and farmers. Even though it is so strong, parliamentary commissions have their own influence. Too bad we didn't create it and it's also our fault, but we didn't have enough signatures then in 2000 to introduce it then, to look at the Trojan project, as it was set up, we probably would have prevented a lot. At that time - when I became a Member, everything was already adopted for this route - the policy in the back of Drnovska summed up, then the LDS, that Drnovšek insists on the trip through the Trojans. I called it an exit route because of the interest in helping the locals. And like leeches, they all sat on it, inspired the project across all possible borders, the route with tunnels and viaducts, raised the highway, 30 meters above the current route. You know, it's nonsense that the highway doesn't go any lower than the current on the ground, but it was possible to build miles and miles of overpasses, viaducts and miles and miles of tunnels. Last time in the Markovec tunnel, it turned out that there is around - I think 6 million - I don't know how many millions of euros, it might be cheaper to build. Mr. Zidar said, for this money given by the lowest bidder - it is impossible to build. And he boasted that he had built 60 kilometres of tunnels and, by comparison, compared estimates, as in tunnels, prices were higher, 360 million more euros than if public procurement were accepted transparently. If it weren't for politics, from this end, yours. This is said to be 60 kilometers and 6 million euros per kilometre of tunnel. And where did that money go? We know where he went. As a result, these parties are so powerful that they can achieve everything in the media, with cheap or stolen money, they can achieve everything. And look, it will certainly be on this committee that there has been a favouring of individual bidders. This will absolutely be the conclusion of the Commission. Remember the Trojans, the change of tape, the change of offer, nothing researched. However, there was such an intervention that someone had the opportunity to replace the offer because the competitive offer was slightly cheaper. These are terrible frauds that you are now supporting with your interest in this commission of inquiry. You know why you support how much of this money has helped you in power, you know. And if it weren't for that route or those leeches that were created on this route across the Trojans, we could build a highway with that money to Pinc, with the exception of the conveyor belt that "de facto minister" had drawn, and "de iure minister" had no opportunity and no power to let that retirement time live. And today the Prekmurites suffer, as they suffer at Mura and at all others, because they have long been forgotten. It's similar to the Ribnica route across the Vipava Valley. Lobbies' interest in the most demanding construction site possible. The route was misdirected because of the storm. It should be on the edge. We know. For many reasons, the matter is wrong. The ribs are being built I don't know how long, so that then some people say that they are Blameful and I don't know which local politicians. Yes, listen, Ivo Praise said I would kneel before the minister if he would give priority to do so at a certain time. Now they are irrigated in the column that these Members coming from the spring parties are the most responsible. So through this transparency has been revealed that this was a political project of delaying the road across the Rebrunice and through the Vipavska Valley, so that it could 'politically irrigate the spring side' that it did not do enough for its own. The Minister, who was a member of the People's Party, couldn't do anything because they were lobbying because the power centers had decided. And this has to be revealed in the investigative committee. Thus, those colleagues, including those who think that only ministers are part of public functions, do not know, this is a wide range of people! Not to be afraid, indeed, the scope of this is incredible and also the scope of this commission of inquiry. It needs to be put on the grid. There's no other help! And fellow Members, on the other hand, who are not involved in these matters, be involved and be excluded today because this will be stressful and tectonic consequences. I hope we're still a normal country, which also sometimes post-festums, too late, but still says bob beans. This investigation is in the public interest. There's no doubt about that. This investigation is still in some public interest, because billions of money went so far as to make possible trade in weapons - all of it, legally sold - is spitting into the sea against it. And yet Mrs Remembrance Hribar said that arms trade has the same symbolic and negative moral significance as post-war killings. I don't know if she's gonna say it's even worse than the post-war killings, the embezzlement at the road lobby. Let him face it today and tell him whether this is even worse for the Slovenian Corps. Colleagues and colleagues! It wasn't just a scaffolding tunnel. There's been some terrible misdeeds. As a result, we are still building highways, even though we should be at Gibelia’s house if the Slovenians were building them for this money. As a result, the Commission of Inquiry must be formed as soon as possible and equipped with the necessary support. But this is also where the parliamentary administration is stalling, and it does not give such commissions sufficient professional support. As long as these lobbyists are being investigated, the secretary of the three committees gets it. Sometimes, when Anderlich had an investigative commission, he could have pulled any secretary from the outside. The training boards have expertise, professional support. But when this commission asks for paid experts, they'll say there's a need for a recession. Well, I certainly support the establishment of this commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In my presentation of the Group's position, I expressed my doubts or thoughts within our parliamentary group that the establishment of this parliamentary commission of inquiry is not a basic intention to disclose or determine the actual situation, but rather that it is intended for anything else. And after such a rich performance by the predecessor, it certainly strengthened my conviction that this would be meant for anything else, if we listened to our colleague Jerovsk, how he simply came from the highway to the post-war beatings, then we know how everything possible and impossible will be on this investigation agenda. When I listened to my colleague Eva Irgle, who unfortunately went out, I would tell her that I remembered a story about Trnuljčica. Not so much for beauty, but mainly for sleep. Apparently, it's like some people slept through the last term or not. It is therefore difficult to understand the debaters who know everything about private billions, the billions who know about the money of the Jews, who obviously also know about arms trafficking, who are dripping against what was going on in construction and that during these four years, during the period when they were in power, they did not use all the legal institutions of this country to initiate all the necessary procedures in order for those who obviously know them to be sanctioned and to identify these irregularities. Therefore, today, to establish such a commission reminds us that it is already visible and is investigative in the previous Mercator mandate, where virtually so many cases did not reveal the essence of what actually happened in the disputed sale of Mercator's share. It is therefore difficult to believe that this investigative parliamentary commission will do its job properly. I am still optimistic, and I hope that this will be the case, and I will find this most easily when the programme of those facilities, that period, those matters that will actually be dealt with by the members of the Commission will be prepared. My colleague Jerovšek missed representatives of the government today, but unfortunately, he is not here to ask him which governments were, because there have been four governments since 1996, which will include this parliamentary inquiry, and at least the current government, and it is probably also logical that such matters are better for the Government to work on the problems facing Slovenia at this time than to listen to reflections on everything that has happened in these years. It is therefore possible to make a clear proposal to verify the credibility or purpose of the newly established commission in such a way as to look at a concrete case at the conclusion of the mandate of the previous government, led by Mr Janez Janša - a change in the course of the 3rd development axis. Maybe it's a pain in the ass for someone, though. The change of route took place in the face of a strong opposition from the Ministry of Agriculture. All the profession opposes this current route, but a few days before the end of the term, then Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jarc, signed an agreement and it was the government's decision to launch a state-level location plan for the new route. If this is not an eloquent example of political involvement, including the institutions of public functions, it would be difficult to say that it is not. Therefore, a concrete proposal could be made to look at this most up-to-date case, because there is also a lot to be solved. Last but not least, it can still protect the vast surfaces of the most fertile land in the lower Savina valley in the municipality of Braslovce. This is a good example that shows that during each period these phenomena occur. Therefore, it is also appropriate to investigate this matter with the parliamentary commission of inquiry. It is surprising, however, that this loss of memory for the last four years and we are now returning to the period when we are carelessly referring to the name, unfortunately, of the late former President Drnovsk. Therefore, I repeat my view that we will be happy to participate in this investigative committee also in order to be witnesses to what is going on with this investigative committee. Given the scale, it is the least that can be said to be impossible, but it can be feasible in individual segments. It is difficult to listen, at least to me personally, to how it happens in Parliament - I specifically think of Mr Jerovská, that no one else would replicate me, I will name him again, Mr Jerovšek - with his left hand throwing on the table or in front of people the words "stolen huge money", "hazardous machinations", "Jude's money", "tekton's movement", what was going on, but not acting on it. I believe that it is not even a valid statement that they are at issue with the pension of pensioners. Those are questioned as much as our parliamentary salaries, because they come from about the same source and therefore there is no need for them to heat up and cast doubt on pensioners who, I believe, are living difficult lives, but they do not need to make their lives worse by making such statements. I think thinking is just a way to get someone back to distract them from the things that were done in the previous term. That is why so little has been done to clean up the back and today, as an opposition party, has decided again to file a motion for parliamentary investigation. I repeat, I support it myself, I know it's a necessary and important institute, but there's a great danger of being abused and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I am also of the opinion that, for the country of Slovenia and for taxpayers, it would be significantly better to have such an investigative commission a few years earlier. I am convinced that such a commission would contribute not to the construction of roads, to the increase of motorways in fact year after year, and more so than there was inflation. That was inappropriate, with higher jumps. Not long after I talked to one of the highway construction experts, when he told me frankly that the price of construction, I am talking about construction, highway in Slovenia is certainly at least 30% more expensive than it would be some normal price taking into account standardisation, profit, etc. It means that only when we build at least 30% of our prices are higher than they would have been. If we look at another moment, which seems so much more important to me, however, it is also likely that the design was designed to make these prices significantly higher than they would have been. Why does this happen, or why did it happen? It didn't come in a year, from year to year, this network was created, confused. These were designers, they were supervisors of course also performers, and when the circle was once closed, in fact it was impossible in an easy way to come into this sphere, to explore - and today we are where we are. A similar example is found in high - construction projects. Even where it's built for state money, these prices are enormously high. A few cases. The Oncology Institute. The first planned value was moving back then, and we're talking about tolars, because they were tolars, it was a little over 3 billion tolars. Final value, I think it was about 14 or even more. Five times the cost of investment. By meeting today with technical solutions that do not meet those expected standards. It's just like a schnapps tunnel. I think with 30 million original visibility, that's already in euros, it went to almost 150. It's five times as expensive here as it is. And here are the designers looking for the most expensive solutions. Not least because they are paid, it seems, with some share of the value of the project and is basically interested in looking for such project solutions that will be most expensive. Here today it is to be heard that this commission of inquiry will be essentially just a waste of money, that there will be no results, no conclusions - I do not share this opinion myself. I am sure that the money that will be spent on the Commission's functioning will essentially drop compared to what will certainly happen on the basis of these surveys, or will affect operators and the future construction of our road infrastructures. Because I am sure that a lot of things will change in terms of more rational design and construction. The Commission we are setting up will identify political responsibility because it does not have other powers. That's right. Because what I mentioned earlier, about this closed circle between designers, contractors, supervisors, was certainly a policy involved, because without political support or at least a quiet consensus it would not be possible or could not be created. It has also been heard today that this should be investigated by our prosecution, our police. I agree that this would be justified in a number of cases, but those who are searching for the memory will be able to find that many times a change in the law has been made in order to prevent any such scams that have occurred from being discovered or that matters have become obsolete. So I firmly believe that, legally, under the existing legislation, with many loopholes that have been made for the purpose of lawmakers - with the support of the highest policy - it would be even now, if the police were to investigate it, probably a number of cases that made it impossible to investigate and would in fact be more futile than the work of this Commission. For this reason, I believe that with the work of this Commission, especially if other parliamentary parties propose people who will be interested or Members and Members to act constructively, that the objective will be to explore all these backgrounds and these events in the past 15 years and that in Slovenia future road construction will be cheaper or at least comparable to other countries. However, it would probably be worth thinking about setting up a commission, as I have already mentioned, also for high construction, because there are probably things or certainly the same, because, after all, there is one and the same company, at least one, which is well known in Slovenia - the SCT, in all of these stories from the oncological institute to the construction of viaducts and other infrastructures. It means the players are the same. And just one more thing. I hope it will also have an impact on the so-called reconstruction of our highways. I also drive every day from New City to Ljubljana, and also elsewhere, and many times I wonder where the need was for such a thorough reconstruction of motorway sections, when in fact there were no such or other injuries. Even now, if we drive past Ljubljana on the southern outskirts, what are the interventions that will cost taxpayers millions of euros, and I firmly believe that this would not yet be necessary, there were no such mistakes, but this is agreed in advance, this is a guaranteed deal. And I think that there will be a lot of such things in the future if we don't make sure that maintenance and reconstruction are actually done when it is necessary. That is how I believe that this commission will achieve its purpose in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Although I can say that I am one of those average citizens who don't care who are hurt, who are sad, who are sometimes angry, when it comes to suspected or proven acts of corruption or minor business - much more so in the event of the establishment of this investigative commission and the investigation into political responsibility in the system of construction of fast roads, motorways. I can tell you that the optimism I'm carrying inside of me is somehow passing me by. Because of the fact that investigative commissions have already been set up, investigations have been carried out, commission of inquiry, commission of inquiry, and when we look at the results of all these investigations and commissions, the number of results is very painful. There are few cases where, on the basis of these investigations, someone would be accused and convicted of being specifically proven guilty. This is also the case with winged women, if you want something not to be discovered, then you set up an investigative commission that will not know for sure. But this is part of my pessimism, where I look at the establishment of an investigative commission that is set up to work, and I wish her all the best. However, such a provision and burden that the Commission has imposed, it is said, to investigate all acts from 1996 to this day, is so strong, so difficult and so powerful that I am probably not the only one who is skeptical in this Chamber, seeing that there are fewer and fewer Members. There's probably one of us who doesn't believe in the success of this commission of inquiry. Unfortunately, in addition to this scepticism, another fact is that the Commission is being set up for something else. That the original purpose of this commission of inquiry is something else, not just what it is to investigate. Last but not least, if we look at the period since 1996, there have been different governments and all governments have built-in systems that can legitimately identify responsibility, not only the political, criminal and material responsibilities of all those who have - if they have - since so far only been suspected - started some unclean business. All these governments had this opportunity and the opportunity to do so. However, today we are imposing this burden on ourselves to find out the facts 13 years ago, identify responsibility and prove something. You know, then we either have to be naive or idealistic if we believe that we're going to get real results. But as long as we have the system and the Court of Auditors and the prosecutions and the police and, last but not least, many other repressive authorities, as long as we have this system legitimate, I see no reason why we would somehow be duped to take on some heavy tasks and heavy burdens of ourselves and do this instead of someone else. Not just because we're taking on a mission that isn't ours. I think that the National Assembly has many, many more original, elementary tasks and tasks that are somehow vital and crucial to the development of the country. And once again, the establishment of one such commission that will have a lot of work to do is probably moving our content, the content of the National Assembly away from that elementary. And again, we are wasting our energy for something else, which may not be so necessary, but it is important - as I mentioned at the outset, these things, such as corruption and as inconvenient business, are also important to clear them up. But I'm sure it's somewhere else much earlier than in the National Assembly. And if it's the commission, then I'll wish her all the best and successful work. Although - as colleague Eva Irgl said, the previous Government is the principles of the construction lobby and the highway lobby; it is principles, I am sure that it is principles. Perhaps it is in the right place that the principle that this beginning of the story and clearing was not the establishment of an exploratory and investigative parliamentary commission, but that there were house investigations in the early hours of the morning. So this is the thing that I was talking about: we have legitimate systems -- why don't they do these things that we're loading now? And in the end, this debate will sound like political accounting, as a place for populism, political populism and camera performance, and those original content probably won't touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I am only supporting the investigation to establish the political responsibility of public officials in the execution of construction investments, as this country has already had major investment difficulties since its independence, both with investments in health, culture and perhaps the most important investment in highway or road infrastructure. If we could say that all roads lead to Rome, we could say that all the signs and all the roads lead to some companies and to some names that last or all of these years appear in all of these stories. A paediatric clinic, oncology and the like, has already been mentioned. And some of you tell us that even within the mandate of our government we could do more - certainly, but we are something, so now we are moving a pediatric clinic, an oncology institute and so on. This happened in the previous term, or things had gone so far as to finally reach these facilities after decades. And even in the field of road infrastructure, something was done. But perhaps the problem is that not all institutions in this country - which should be interested in doing things as they should - and that something would happen - are equally interested in something like this happening. Remember last year the case of Zidar-Penko, what the circus was like and what would have happened if the judge had allowed the investigation of that car. Obviously, too much has happened since, at the time or at all, it has had to work very intensively both in the Organised Crime Prosecutor's Office and in the police group, several months' work has resulted in an event, and then, because of the court's decision, the whole matter may have fallen into the water at a time when a matter could be clarified and there would be more clarity today, and more questions or requests made in the proposal for the commission of inquiry have been written down. And we can probably admit that this was one of the rare events where most citizens and citizens also said, "Well, now something is going to happen, and now something is going to start and we will finally explore and determine whether and what was wrong with the construction of our motorways." And we've done a few other things. In the previous term, the Minister of Transport was also replaced for reasons listed here, because certain things were not going as they should, and perhaps one of those former Minister of Christmas will be because of his - perhaps - connections, which will also be asked about what was going on and how things were going. Even a number of things have happened because he has become qualified or has been able to work as he should be at the Office of Competition Protection, and elsewhere. And that's what happened in the time of our government. And if this government could continue its work, you can be sure that things would go this way. Apparently, the police now have enough work to do, when a special group is investigating a physical therapist's chamber for secret information, and probably at that time there is not enough time to investigate crimes that are of greater magnitude than we can actually call organised crime. We have written in our proposal that investment in road infrastructure in general happens to have exceeded deadlines, exceeded funds or that all these projects are more expensive when they are completed. We also pay 400% more in the end, and it's probably interesting for citizens and citizens, what's really going on here, and where we throw the bottomless bag of taxpayer money. To the extent that there is a suspicion that the unelected tenderers will then act as subcontractors, this suggests that they have probably agreed with the one chosen on the invitation to tender and so on. That is why I do not share these negative feelings of coalition Members, who say that nothing will be achieved, that nothing will happen. I think that some of the actors who have been in the last decade, the good decade, will probably be involved in all these stories for the first time, probably even asking how things were happening and why something was happening. A colleague from Zares says that this government is the least involved, that can be true, but it may not be because quite a few of the parties in this government have been in some of the previous governments. Therefore, I also find it difficult to understand why such negative comments on the initiation of an investigation by coalition investigators should this government have nothing to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The closer the highway is being built, the more criminalized it is and the more it raises the issue of the professional and political responsibility of all those involved in the construction process. That's not unusual! Many of the so-called "megaproject" have experienced a similar fate throughout the world. Above all, we could say that many such mega-projects have taken place in recent decades. These are projects requiring the mobilisation of large funds which the private sector cannot provide. Sometimes they also require large technical and organisational interventions and later operation, as we can see, is sometimes uncertain. There are extensive literature on the subject of so-called megaprojects. The authors, the signatories did not take this into account in this act and the act is not optimally prepared. These megaprojects are very different, but they have one common feature. And that is that everyone in a row exceeds the funds that were planned for their construction. In one book, I'm not going to quote it because you're not interested in, say, the Boston Road Arteries and Tunnel project exceeded the cost of 196%. Not for 96, but 196%. United Kingdom Bridge - 175%, Boston-Washington-New York Railroad by 130% and so on. There is no project that does not exceed the intended funding. He also described why, but I don't have time to talk about it. In particular, I would say that the highway project in Slovenia has also greatly exceeded these funds. From the original value of 1.8, or according to some data, 2.3 billion has increased to about 10 or 11 billion, depending on what additional debt will be. It is important to say for all those who previously said that the highway program has increased by 40% or even more from the beginning, that new roads, new carriages, new taxiways have been added to the National Assembly. That the original program was planned according to the principle of the so-called sharp pencil. For example, if he had predicted crossing the Black Kal only with the second belt, the state road would have the function of the second belt, as it is now at the beginning of the road towards Dolenjska - an extremely poor solution. That the northern Maribor - Murska Sobota - Lendava motorway was included in the programme only in 1995, that at the time of the preparation of the project there was only a local plan on the coastal highway, that there was no other location plan on which at least approximately the investment costs of the motorway construction could be estimated. Nevertheless, it is not possible to exclude various acts of corruption in these matters, as in all public procurements. It is right to investigate, although I have no illusion that this investigation is more than a political account for current needs. But still, I have some experience. If so, it would not be helpful to draw attention to the point of view that was observed, but it could not have been affected by much at that time. For example, it would be useful to determine whether there has been an increase in traffic with agricultural land in the course of the development of state-owned site plans on land on which the motorway could take place. Who bought it, who sold it, and so on. It would be very interesting to see and many in this room might laugh less. You're talking about Shentvid. Of course, Shentvid is a typical example of how to not build, and a typical example that costs cannot be controlled if you change, expand, supplement while building a project. It will be very fun to rediscover why this was happening, why the completion of the Location Plan Regulation was delayed, and what political struggle was then in the government that this happened. Unfortunately, the draft act does not establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions for the transition to the vignette system, which is highlighted by colleague Anderlič, who has a real negative impact on the financing of motorways, on the return of loans, on the construction of a third axis and also on the fact that we have not received funding from the European Union. I also warn that there is a risk of public debt. At the moment, Darsa's debt is not a public debt because the old toll was paid according to the principle of payment for the service. If they are somewhere in Europe, it is not good to speak, I will speak very quietly, explain that this is no longer the payment of the service, but in fact it is a tax, they will put it into public debt. And if this is included in the public debt, the way in which the tolls are collected, we could say we're actually screwed. After all, it would be very interesting to examine or also to determine the fate of this study of the plan for the introduction of tolling with vignettes in the Republic of Slovenia. I only obtained this study on the basis of a requirement under the law on access to information of a public nature. I don't believe it, and I have to say no one would have gone that far, but I was hinted - and that would be good if you were investigating now - that this study was gone. That it was made post-festive, only when I asked for it. I emphasize that I don't believe that, and I don't think that can be true. But there's some suspicion. I'm sure this suspicion can be overturned if you investigate it. It is also pleased that in this study - that is, in the investigation there is a problem of roughness in the trojan tunnels. There's a study by Professor Lieschke from the Technical University of Vienna. I read it myself. However, I am not sure that the Minister of State, who is here in the Chamber, has read it, nor am I sure that the Secretary of State, who is here, has read it. Because if you read it, you wouldn't be convicted of increased rigour by a control engineer who performed this function, because this study doesn't say in any way that it's the control engineer's fault, it even, paradoxically, warned about this. This was the reason for the removal of the Director at the time and for a member of the SDS, the candidate for the national elections and the mayor of Prebold to be led. However, they did not say and explain that the problem of roughness in tunnels across Europe is generally a problem and that in 2008 the average daily movement of vehicles in Trojan tunnels had the same value that should have been achieved only in 2020. So that means it's a problem that wasn't attached to the supervisor. But, of course, perhaps in this regard - of course I do not believe it myself - we would examine whether it was not the right thing for this supervisory engineer to do when they replaced the director, even to make important advertising and advertising in the SDS's free advertisements. In the end, all I would say is that I end up in the same way that I started, and I remember that at the time of the opening of a highway, when I was the Minister of Environment and Space -- some constructionist and some designer, I don't remember the name anymore, and I don't think I knew them very well at the time, said, "Minister, one day we're going to get a medal for what we did for Slovenia." And I watered them with cold water: "No, there will be no medal, for a long time then you will be dragged to the courts, responsible for political responsibility, professional responsibility, and you will not get rid of it for very long." It's the only gratitude [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Marinič made a statement as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much on behalf of the motioners. Well, it's okay if we use some sort of professional comparison and find out some big projects in tunnel construction, that this or these tunnels went up by 100%, for 200, 300. If we want to balance the picture, we should, on the other hand, get the opposite information as to how many such cases there are where such megaprojects have also been cheap. These studies and comparisons also exist. This is then balanced information that we operate on if we want to be consistent. Never and never will we argue that everything that has been done in this Slovenia on highway programs - this is not a big achievement. This is evidence, it is the deployment of some of our domestic experts who have proven themselves and have shown that we know and can do just as much as many other international, internationally established experts. However, in this parliamentary investigation, we will not determine who is the expert. Maybe it is an expert, but under the term "expert" who obviously lived at a time when he saw that something could be done beyond what we say should be managed with public money. The reasons for determining the act of parliamentary investigation are precisely based on Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I emphasize this for the third time, because some still say that this is not necessary, but listen, dear colleagues, this is our constitutional category. We comply with constitutional provisions. But something else is very important that I would like to stress. At the same time, SCT also owned the most part of the overpaid highway project, which raises suspicion that individual public function holders have enabled the Director and others involved in the buy-out to obtain an unlawful advantage. It is based on a justification from which a communication on the conclusion of the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the previous term is able to determine when the Commission found out how the shares were sold in this company. On 22 pages of this parliamentary investigation report comes out, and this report has also been discussed and confirmed by this Parliament. In particular, the ownership structure of the SCT in 2004: Kad 23.25%, Sod 9.81%, Delfi 53.1%, own shares 12.76%. Kad and the Court had a total of 33.06%. In July 2003, P&S made a valuation, the price of SCT 7.200 SIT, between 5,499 and 8,907 SIT. I apologize for speaking in Slovenian Tolars, but then they were tolars and it is right that this is also credible with the then currency that we can calculate. Kad and the Court sold shares simultaneously during the period April-August 2004. The total share of Kada and Soda is 33.6%, but the sale takes place separately as sellers do not perform together. That's very interesting. The buyer is the same and this construction company Road bridges Celje, CMC. The price of the stock is 8,400 tolars. Mode of sale When it was direct, it's also interesting. The sale was made by the Court of First Instance with the non-disclosure of tenders, the Management Board, the Court of First Instance only ordered the sale after the contract was signed. What was I going to say with that? In this way, I wanted to say that the largest construction company that started during this period is strong, at first probably for good purposes, but later this company began to link, according to my personal assessment, also with policies that had a high or the highest impact. I cannot speak of names today, that is to be determined by this parliamentary investigative commission, which, in accordance with Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, also has powers in certain segments of power as a judicial authority when, of course, it investigates and interrogates individual actors. By the name of the applicants, the investigation is of public interest as it is necessary to establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that public function holders have acted contrary to the legislation and thus to achieve their benefits or the benefits of others involved in the process of carrying out motorway projects. Tomorrow will open one of the sections of the highway, namely Slivnica - Drazenci, will become a section below the total length of 13 kilometres, for which no funds will be provided in this other rebalancing. Things are moving back in time, and this is precisely why it is to conclude that if these funds, which are public funds and which are intended, are confirmed in the National Assembly and have legal bases, would be spent rationally, then, for now or for some time now, after this highway section. Thus, unfortunately, matters concerning the motorway programme are moving away, moving there until 2013. I hope that this last highway leg of the highway, the so-called Firnar highway, will also happen soon after the opening of the Slovnica - Drazenci motorway tomorrow. As one of the colleagues said in the debate. "You know, anyway, I've been to a national celebration, a lot of people have been surprised by that final event, and even tomorrow this opening of the highway section without this frequency, and the resources should be devoted to ensuring greater security at that part of the section from Draženci to Gruškov, which ensures greater security for the people living on this road."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Regardless of some concerns about the prudence and effectiveness of the parliamentary investigation, I will support this and I think it is necessary; but not to defile anyone, but to perhaps - say perhaps - in the future such anomalies as have occurred in the construction of motorways may also be eliminated. Where's the common sense, a healthy farmer's mind, if you want? Any farmer who intends to build barns, even in private life, will first assess his financial situation and when he closes this financial structure, he or she will go to work or work. You will find a few individuals who would peacefully transfer or allow the value of the investment to be irritated by, say, 300%, as it did with the value of building highways. We have heard earlier that the value of the construction of these motorways increased from 3.3 million in 1996 to 11.6 million euros, with the completion period extended from 2004 to 2013. And if the red light doesn't start flashing around here and you start looking for the reasons for it, then I really don't know. But if I'm very optimistic, everything can be fine - maybe. However, there is reasonable suspicion that these funds for the construction of these large investment facilities have not been used economically and transparently. That is why this parliamentary commission is in the public interest. I am confident that it will identify this political responsibility of the public function holders who have participated in the preparation and implementation of investments, as it is ultimately for the money of our taxpayers, but we know that it is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u122	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Respected and respected. The proposed requirement covers the period of the last thirteen years. This is the period when, with the exception of half a year of management of the Ministry of Transport, Dr. Marko Pavliha and the last 8 months of the difficult transport sector was led by the Slovenian People's Party. I must say that I welcome the attitude of this party, which has decided to join this request, not to hide in the sand, but to face the sins of building the highway cross in Slovenia, which I am sure is not exclusively party but extremely interesting. I wonder, of course, what does this require from this commission of inquiry. I'm not at all opposed to her, and I actually accept her as a fact. If we know that we have reports from the Court of Auditors throughout this period. Among other things, the latter deals with the period between 2004 and 2007, which clearly indicates serious shortcomings, lack of prudence and rationality in the use of budgetary money to build such a public infrastructure. Given that some have regretted that this commission of inquiry does not cover the very act of introduction of vinjets, let me say that I understand point 5 of this requirement as well. To determine whether the budgetary resources for the use of funds have been drawn up rationally, intentionally and have been drawn up in accordance with the rules. On the inside, I'm sure the investigative commission can bite that sour apple. This acid apple, which causes Slovenia to grow in public debt, the absence of the sustainability of the highway system and, as the working inter-ministerial group established by the current government at the end of 2008, has found that the system is neither short-term nor long-term, because the share of debt in financing is too high or growing too fast. I would like to remind you that this Interdepartmental Working Group has analysed this situation we are facing and then some very important measures have followed. Both short-term and long-term. This is what will be the attempt of this country to face the bad situation and the burden of previous years. Let us recall that the practice of the former government started with the construction of public debt motorways, and the introduction of the vignette system has given this remarkable impetus. Basically, as said, I have no reservations to the investigative commission either because I think that we are all particularly responsible at the time of the crisis to give the citizens a clear answer that their money is being spent in a prudent and in line with the public interest to enable citizens and citizens to have good, quality and rational public infrastructure. I share some of the opinions presented in the request, for example, at point 12, where the applicants say that it is the intention of this commission of inquiry to identify, prove or disprove suspicion of the links of individuals in the contracting-projector-executor-supervisor chain with public function holders, which would allow for unjustified benefits and damage to the State. I am sure that this has occurred and that there are still such ambitions today. The debate has already said that Slovenian motorways are among the most expensive in Europe. I'd like to give you some information on that. On the highway between Vienna and Graz, it is 144 kilometers long section, standing 35 video cameras monitoring traffic. This is one camera at 4.11 kilometers. In Slovenia we only have a section between Celje and Trojans, it is 38 kilometers long section, 170 cameras or so, one camera at 200 meters. Or the next case. We probably have the most prestigious communication systems with drivers, these big "screens" that hang over highways that normally say "Don't drink and drive". In doing so, I am convinced that the lack of rationality in the construction of such a public infrastructure has also been demonstrated in other areas. In this respect, I regret that one important coalition commitment is not moving, and this is the establishment of a central procurement agency. I think we need this body to need centralised public procurement, of course centralised control over this public procurement. That every time a transport minister is subject to such or other ambitions of construction lobby or suppliers of expensive highway equipment. Initially, I have already said that I think that this thing is not just a matter where we should look at politics, but that we also need to look at all the interesting links that exist in this vicious circle between investors, building controls and contractors. I'm sure we can build cheaper highways in this country. And this is particularly important now that we are ahead of the start of the new investment cycle in the construction of railway infrastructure. I would like the Commission of Inquiry, as you propose, to give clear, independent and unequivocal answers to what needs to be done to prevent this vicious cycle of shameful and irrational use of public resources from repeating itself in the future when we build this important railway infrastructure. I am convinced that, therefore, it is the common role of all of us to step on these lobbies and these ambitions and let the citizens know that we are building this common infrastructure for them, not for the interests of builders and suppliers of equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. The establishment of such a commission is, of course, a legitimate and legal means used by the opposition. Of course, I am concerned that someone who looks back only, and this has already started with a famous closing account for pre-Last'snow' as you might say in 2007. I am sure that when politics does not see clear objectives and answers, the Commission will be set up. The results after the end of this mandate will, of course, be about the same as they are today. If anyone has, and obviously this data exists, what was seriously wrong, I must say that he should take the path under his feet, turn to the relevant authorities that we have in this country enough, which, of course, before the work of this commission is completed, should it be serious corrupt, non-economic and similar matters. I am also surprised that those who had four years of time to put things in order have unfortunately failed. And if it takes a little more time for the work of the Commission, if there is only any result, I will gladly attach to it. That's how I don't see any objections here. But it is obvious to set up commissions in a fashionable and modern manner. I wonder why? Whether this is a diversion of attention or in the field of measures, there is a lack of anti-recession and economic ideas, or whether the objective is even more transparent and even more simple, that once the last opposition, tied or unrelated Member has received the presidency of this committee, then the trend will be halted. But I'll be happy to support the committee myself. But I'm not making illusions about the results and the redemption of their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well-known Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the SDS, we believe that the parliamentary investigation into the political responsibility of public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of construction investments is of great importance in the area of the construction of motorways, buildings, economic infrastructure. In doing so, we want to prevent and determine what this building lobby is actually doing throughout the country. We know what's going on with the construction of highways, what's happening with the shale tunnels, what's going on with the Markovec tunnel, because there's one of the builders who's going to make a much cheaper offer, and then the biggest actor says you can't build this tunnel for that money. That's not the end of the story. We all know that he will complain and that he will make one more offer and immediately thereafter because he wants to control the entire construction system in Slovenia. We also remember the Clinic Centre in Ljubljana, not to mention these things, how many things have actually been happening in this building lobby. With this commission of inquiry, we want to find out what and who those actors are, even in political waters, not just in construction waters. To actually put an end to the fact that we are actually reducing these investments to the real ground where they belong. Investments in Slovenia in road construction infrastructure exceed so much and so much more. I think that roads, if foreigners can build them cheaper, then I also think that Slovenians can build us ourselves cheaper, but we must avoid the various corruptions that are taking place in this love of Slovenia. In fact, I would like to add that it is not only the Ministry of Transport that is responsible for this part. The Ministry of the Environment is also very important here. The Ministry of the Environment, all or all the parties somehow take for granted. We know for ourselves how it's been going down, who's going to be the minister. OK, Mr. Erjavec will be good enough for the environment. That's not true. If this ministry works badly, then there are additional problems. Then there are projects that cannot be implemented. This ministry is very important or among the most important, where to place roads and certain things due to the environment, because of the actual destruction, pollution of the state of Slovenia. I personally know how polluted one part of Slovenia is. I myself participated in one project measured emissions from Maribor to Barcelona. Believe how many contaminated particles were at toll stations, how many polluted, hard particles are actually in Trojans, and especially in Ljubljana. We need to be aware of that. And now you're also objecting to vinjets. We made the wines, if not the other, a great flow of Slovenia. We Styerians, when we drive every day to Ljubljana or even longer, believe what it means to actually drive across Slovenia without stopping, stops are that every day some work is happening on the highway. And how much less polluted this landscape is. These are the main reasons. For this decision, however, there is certainly a study that is likely to be submitted in this part to see why this decision was wise or smart. I hope that by setting up this commission, a few things will come to pass. I am not thinking this way at all, as some Members have said: "It is strange that the People's Party hoped to go into this part." Yeah, the only thing brave. Mr. Žerjav, as the last minister to act this year and a half, believe that he worked for the good of the Slovenes and the Slovenes. But if his predecessors have sinned, it will prove itself. And that's right. In Slovenia, we are all related, and that is why we think, not soak it up, not soak it up. And that is why what we now have in Slovenia is happening. And it is right to set up this commission and it is right to find out what is wrong and it is right to get to the bottom of this masonry, transport lobby once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate in the National Assembly, I am actually in slight doubt. We all point out that the commission of inquiry is right, let us have it, set it up, there is nothing wrong with it, to start its work, but there are several debaters in the coalition who have doubts about its results. I think that if we are here in this National Assembly, we are beginning to think that the purpose of setting up investigative commissions is meaningless, and this is such an important investigative commission. We have said in our position that this is a project, as formerly referred to by Member of the Parliament of Zares as'my project', that is to say 250%, and we doubt that they would do anything, then, in fact, we as Members of the National Assembly are giving an excellent signal that these actions can take place in advance, without any consequences. If we doubt that we would do anything, this chain that we talked about today, the contracting entity - the designer - the contractor - can control that it can function joyfully further. I wouldn't be afraid of the scale of the commission and I'm not afraid of the scale of the commission she set up. The pattern of action is simple. It is about the fact that the basic tender for each road project began with a small tender price, a small offer, and then many annexes and incentives were experienced by the project changes. And this needs to be cleared up. And I am pleased, fellow Social Democrats, that he also understood the message that we have said in our position. There is an investment project of railways ahead of us, and it is possible to stop what has already begun to occur. I mentioned the project Divaca - Koper, the second track that now wants to be narrowed down to one small project, just so the performance starts and then we will see. We'll find out soon enough that we need two tracks and another tunnel, but what? The contract will be signed. We'll have to give you an annex. Look, this is a pattern of action. And this is about things that need to be cleared up. Of course, I note that today the whole debate, including from the representatives of Zares and SD in particular, has narrowed down to the problem of vignettes. The guilty are now those who have caused 252% of the competition. Let me remind you that the first problem that arose was that it first changed the closed toll system into an open one. That's when the toll story started to break, and then less money came together. And interestingly, the vines were introduced before the elections. At no Social Democrats meeting, in no opinion did I hear any of them say no when we arrive and if we get the opportunity to lead the government immediately, we shut down the toll system. No, it wasn't. That wasn't there. You know, I read the poll once, too, and I think in the newspaper Delo, where it was written, that 70% of those who vote for SD would support the introduction of vignettes. Of course, because it's of the same benefit. The colleague explained earlier about the Interdepartmental Working Commission, which was established, which is of course very good. It detects things that need to make the system financially sustainable, but look. In this balance, which will be addressed tomorrow, €60 million less, €60 million less for transport infrastructure. And what you've always seen taking means of purpose, you've driven it to nothing. No euros for highways. If that was so bad, then we'd change it, put in the budget funds for the purpose of maintaining highways. A fellow Member of the Parliament, Dr. Gantar, has also given himself a hard time about tolling. And I have to get my hands on the operation of the client, Zares, who went to explain to the motorists the toll system. But we have read in the media that Telargo is interested in tolling, and Tellargo is owned by Ultra, and this, I think, will be discussed on another commission that we are setting up. When we talk like that, we have to be honest. The Commission of Inquiry is also intended to clarify this matter. And let us not allow here in the National Assembly to be Members of those who will question the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry. Yes, but all those who listen to us today still intend to build. They can be too happy. The National Assembly, in fact, does not want to interfere, does not want to go beyond this highway lobby, which will become a railway lobby tomorrow. That is why I have drawn attention to it, and that is why this Commission of Inquiry must deliver concrete results.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am very pleased to see through the debate that we all want this commission of inquiry to come to fruition. We also wish that the results of this investigative commission will indeed show those who are guilty of what happened in Slovenia. I hope that it is not just the purpose of this commission of inquiry to identify certain sinful goats, but, if it is an investigative commission, to go through all the segments in this society that have been involved in any way in the situation. And this situation must be worrying. If we look at just a few data, we could debate all day, because these are the years that brought these results, from which the negative situation in the area of Slovenian motorways is evident. Dars is in charge of implementing the national highway construction programme today. And that's a fact. The total debt under the implementation of the national programme currently amounts to €4.45 million and an additional €600,000 will have to be invested in order to complete the programme following the 2004 resolution. As a result of the previous mandate, and this is a fact, the accelerated debt, not only the vignettes, is also the cuts in budgetary resources, investments outside the motorway network, the inadequate tolling system and the pricing model of the wine system, as we said earlier. They're not just guilt, but they're part of guilt. And I agree that it is possible for someone from Styria, for example, who is driving daily to Ljubljana, this is a cost-effective transport. But if we compare, in the past, it is those who drove daily to Ljubljana for a highway to pay a thousand euros a year, after which we will pay 90 euros a year. That's the difference. And if we look at the sustainability of finance, we see that if we want to intensively build highways forward, we have to draw money from somewhere. In the coming years, there is also an expected increase in the gap between concession fee and annual financial liabilities. The reasons for the situation, and it is right to look at them, are the accelerated commitment for the implementation of the annual plans after 2004, while at the same time the budget cuts. If we just look at the 2002 Dedicated Resources Act for the period 2004 to 2008, it predicted 840 million euros. Of these, only EUR 231 million, or 27.5%, was realized. The demand for investments outside the motorway network, we are talking about EUR 500 million, which does not generate tolls and therefore concession fees, but represents only additional costs, over the last period financing of reconstructions on the already built motorway network is based mainly on retention, and this is annually from EUR 60 to 70 million, increasing investment values on some sections, an open toll system until the introduction of the vignette system, which allowed the collection of tolls by only about 70% of transported kilometres along the motorway network. And here it is, not least, the introduction of the vignette system, which does not bring an additional toll. And these are all the problems that have accumulated over the year. And in order to complete the basic highway programme, Dars today needs about € 1.6 billion more funding to carry out the tasks required. For all these reasons, which have also taken place in the previous mandate, i.e. in the period 2004 to 2008, in the framework of financial engineering, the national programme for the construction of motorways is unable to carry out an additional motorway programme financially in a sustainable manner, not on so-called developmental axes, which are probably a priority for all of us in this National Assembly. If we look at just a summary of the audit report on the procedures for the construction of the Šentvid tunnel and, say, the whole implementation and financing of the highway construction programme, then I really don't know which country we live in. And obviously it doesn't matter when an authority tells or gives a negative opinion, it doesn't matter to us because nobody in this country is obviously responsible. And what's even worse: if one of these institutions is whether it is the Court of Auditors, whether it is the Ombudsman of Human Rights, whether it is the Kosovo Commission, who will say no negative opinion against a member of the SDS, then that body or institution is corrupt, politically set up, and their opinion is not subject at all. Then I wonder if these institutions are really necessary. According to some, this is not important to be understood from some debates as well. And I think that at this point we know a lot of negative consequences for those who are doing their job, and unfortunately, if they have found at some point that some political structure has acted improperly, then it is right that this structure is also punished for it. Only three more cases, and I'm done. The recommendation, when it was discussed how the highway will go through Slovenia, how this cross will be done, there is one recommendation where the highway would be, and if we process the local environment a little bit, we have to go through Ptuj, Ormož, Ljutomer, Mursko Sobota and beyond. She's not there. She's gone the other way. What were the backgrounds here, and who actually influenced it, unfortunately we don't know. I hope that this will also be found in this investigative committee. And today we are talking about the fast road Slovenska Bistrica - Ptuj - Gorišnica - Markovci - Ormož and so on. And we still haven't actually come today, at least in previous annual programmes, to include this road, which is especially important for the withdrawal of transport and in particular for connecting those who would like to enter the motorway with Slovenia Bistrica. And what's going on? In this mandate, we have included the Ormož-Gorišnica section in the annual programme. All you have to do is find a path that will go around Natura 2000. This road has been included in the annual programme under this mandate. Another example - there was earlier talk about the highway Slivnica-Drazenci. Let us remember, it is precisely because of the vignette system that the European Union has essentially made a prison for funding this highway. And yet these funds have not been released today, even though the Transport Ministry has taken a few steps forward and introduced a different, new system, a vignette system. But as such, the state made sure that the funds were released and that the construction of this highway continued. And that is crucial, and it is important that tomorrow the opening of this highway section will also be important. Speaking of which, we are all working together to ensure that Slovenia is as connected as possible. A little less lobbying, a little less personal interest and a little more honesty. There was also talk about the second rail track. You all know that there is a lot of questions about where this track will go, and it is important to us all, but it should be important for us all that this track certainly connects the Koper-Divatoro-Ljubljano-Celje-Ptuj-Mursko Sobota and continues towards Budapest. I hope there's so much will between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The definition of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, which in some ways satisfies the public's wider interest, certainly makes sense as construction, road construction and all the accompanying factors are being discussed all the time. There is talk of corruption, clientism and cartel arrangements, which is closely linked to the construction of various projects. However, since it is also linked in all these matters to policies that have been the bearer of public functions, it is obvious that the political responsibility of all those who were in some way linked to the realisation of all projects where the investor country was. Citizens in Slovenia expect responsible politicians to work for the purpose of public interest and to be responsible for their actions. It is clear from all the above in the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry that there have been certain irregularities in the execution of the works themselves, the shortcomings of the projects initiated and the financing of the implementation works itself, which have been complemented by annexes over and over and over and over. It is right that the matter be investigated and pointed out to those who have made life miserable for generations who will also have to repay all these overpaid projects. Because of the suspicion of criminal services, no convictions have been made. Lately, however, it is also a crime that will allow law enforcement authorities to conclude and justify the suspicion of investigative parliamentary investigations and to pass judgment on behalf of people who believe in the rule of law, to whom we are so keen to refer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have to admit, my opinion is a little different. I think even the commission of inquiry is coming too late or too late. That way, I see no problem in opposing this committee. Especially for one reason. This government coalition, which is on the government for 7 months, I almost hope to say that this matter is not concerned, because all the established procedures are, of course, longer than 7 months and I support this in this context. Although the period is very wide, it covers 16 years, and I will particularly find it interesting to have the former government and all governments back on track. Many things have happened and, of course, in various areas. Today I heard a lot of comments, a lot of ideas, and I remembered something, that the highway is more expensive than 30%, that the prices are enormously high, that the designers are inadequate or even incompetent and so on. For this reason, I must admit that I find it strange and incomprehensible why no one reacted and prevented irregularities, irritations at the time of taking power. To save needlessly spent money. That's what every good master does. I've heard that before, even a healthy farmer's mind dictates that. So we can't watch for four years without saying anything else, I can think of my own. But if you don't respond to that, you're gonna keep it quiet. That's why I mentioned at the outset that this investigative commission is recognized. However, since there have been many and many things publicised, I will focus only on the scope of the parliamentary inquiry, which covers four points. I will touch the first one, namely highway projects in the Republic of Slovenia and normally to touch Pomurje, our highway. I will be very interested to hear what the data will be, what will be the findings, why the lanes are narrowed, why there are no seat belts. That's the point. Second. I also expect from this investigation other data, which are now hidden and related to financing from construction projects, for which, of course, there are documents that are likely to be safely stored and will sooner or later see the light of the world. You're all touching vignettes. Since I have had a little fun with this, I must admit that I do not know on this committee whether there will be political responsibility or financial responsibility. For a simple reason, because I noticed that one year before the distinguished colleague Žerjav accepted this ministry, Umar wrote that the price should be EUR 165. I don't know. I'm not getting along. I'm not getting along. And also this matter is very interesting to me, who was then the one who produced these things differently than were actually shown. I'm not going to touch the second and fourth points, but I'm going to move on to the fourth, which is talking about property change procedures, manager's buyouts, etc. From this context, point 4 will be very interesting to me when a relatively organised Taiwanese part, called when Mercator, Pivovarna Laško, took place, was launched, the other twenty purchases, during which the most credits for managers' buyouts were granted from state banks. This is very interesting to me. And you know what? I live in expectation of this Commission and, of course, relatively objective expected results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you. There's a magic word. It's a crane. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the establishment of this commission of inquiry, although I believe that the scope of the Commission's investigation is likely to be too large and that the investigation will be difficult. I think it's right that we're with this committee, even though we've already heard the obvious, that crows don't turn off their eyes. If it is estimated that this river actually applies in this case, we will also withdraw from this commission. Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party do not hide from responsibility. And it is right to investigate who may have done something wrong and to condemn it. I'm sure we've done a lot of good. However, there must have been some mistake, as well as in all other areas. However, it must be said that all important functions in this important area, in the road industry, have not always been met by members of the Slovenian People's Party. The members of the supervisory boards, the Presidents of the boards of Dars and the DDC and others were not always members of the Slovenian People's Party, they were members of all political parties, because today I am getting the feeling that this is some total political attack on the Slovenian People's Party. And I don't accept that. I accept everything that has been made a mistake, but I do not want to see a total attack on the Slovenian People's Party being carried out here because they were members of all political parties. Let me give you an example. When I took over the Ministry myself, there was no one from the Slovenian People's Party in the administration of Darsa, one member of the Slovenian People's Party, there was no one from the Slovenian People's Party in DDC. Not to mention the Ministry. I've mentioned the problem of level two and level three in this room in the ministry, in Dars, in the DDC, and maybe somewhere else. You run a roadside policy. Sorry, that's right. I convinced myself of that. By the way, several of the above-mentioned runways and narrow lanes will be confirmed by former Minister Preseknik. If the lanes were cut off, the lanes narrowed down, he found out 14 days before the opening. Tell me, please, who was the one who had this mandate or who allowed himself to do it. Who had these powers in this country that he could have done it when the minister did not know? So I'm pointing to level two and level three, which is probably just one case that I know of and I know how it happened. Who would he be, though I have no proof, but here in this Chamber there is probably a lot of people who know how this happened and who was the one who put his finger down was not a member of the Slovenian People's Party. By the way, the routes of Slovenian motorways are not fixed at the Transport Ministry, but are determined within the framework of the professional services at the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Slovenian People's Party was not always present there either. Besides, I'm assessing, I'm stressing again, let's not run away from responsibility. The matter should be investigated, and if something was wrong, it should be condemned, accused, or otherwise. Otherwise, I view today's debate as a debate with big and strong and sharp words, but I doubt honesty. 15 years or more has been able to change the practice of building Slovenian motorways, and no one has done so. Nor did those who had significantly greater political power than the Slovenian People's Party. And nothing happened, I'm sorry. So there was no honesty at the time, and I'm guessing it's not there now. I myself, as I said many times in this hall, tried to oppose the road lobby. How did I do that? You can judge for yourself. But I'm telling you, it's not easy. I am sure, and this firmly if in Slovenian politics, as I have said several times before, there will be no consensus, and if there is no active role for the President of the Government, but now I do not point to this current Prime Minister, to any Prime Minister of the Government, we will not interrupt the road lobby. All the rest are empty words. The will and desire of the Minister of Transport is insufficient in the face of all the dangers of such and other actions, without any protection of this country for which this Minister is to fight. It must be said that he opposes people who have a lot of money. And with that money, they can do a lot of things. Not fair, not right, but I don't know how. In the end, I'd say this. By the way, Mr. Levanič is no longer in the hall, because it's really not true that I won't tell a lie. Ormož-Gorišnica has already been included in the annual plan for the construction and reconstruction of motorways for 2008, so that it would expect some correctness. In the end, I would say, but everything is not as bad as it wants to appear today. Today we want to paint or paint this devil even blacker than it is. My guess is, it's not that bad. It's true that we have a lot of an anomaly that we didn't want in the history of building highways, we couldn't, we didn't know, I don't know what to call it. But for everything to be so bad, I can't buy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Marinič spoke on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much to the speaker that he warned of the untruth that the fast road from Slovenia Bistrica to Ormož was included in the plan for 2008 when the government of Janez Janša was still involved. And the highway section from Slivnica to Drazenec probably didn't build this government that's been in power for seven months. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. The current government is responsible for when it will start building and complete the freeway section from Drazenci to Gruškov. However, one of the discussers today very vividly expressed how the construction of the highway was done when he said that the contract was signed first, followed a lunch and then was signed by an annex. You know, unfortunately, many times this has actually happened. The Annexes have gone unstoppable, to unreasonable limits. When there were no more reasons, the project had to change during implementation. And so on and so forth. This will also be an important basis for the work of the parliamentary investigative commission. However, I would like to add something else, which follows from the justification of the act determining the parliamentary investigation, where, on behalf of the applicants within the scope of the investigation, it is justified: "The investigation should cover, in particular, the following projects of major building investments of public interest and the procedures of the property transformations and the management purchases of construction companies which have been involved in motorway projects in the Republic of Slovenia since 1996 onwards," under four points: "Autoroad projects in the Republic of Slovenia since 1996; recasts in the Triangian highway tunnels; an economic infrastructure project financed from the State budget since 1996," and under point 4, which one of the discussers also asked, "the processes of ownership transformations and management purchases of construction companies which have been involved in highway projects in the Republic of Slovenia since 1996." So that there is no misunderstanding that there will be no evidence that I am referring to it, I will rely on the report on the parliamentary inquiry which has carried out and completed its work with the final report in the previous mandate, which covers exactly what we propose under point 4. Let's see one of the interesting things about how the Novo Mesto road company was owned before 2004. Let me also say that the Board of Directors of the Court, when our fellow Member, Milan M. Cwickl, was then led. At the 7th meeting, the Governing Board agreed to sell the share of the Soda, at what price it did not fix for the share, and the Novo Mesto Road Company was assessed as a highly profitable company which controls 90% of the market share in Dolenjska. It was sold at a lower price than the value of analysts. These were estimated at 1800 Slovenian tolars this time, and the sale price was 1,700 Slovenian tolars per share. It was a direct sale without a call for tender, the buyer was a company for the management of the Vision. Well, now for the fun of it. At the time of sale, the joint ownership by the Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the SRD in the road company Novo mesto was 39.7%, i.e. more than 25%. The sale was made extremely opaque and non-transparent, and in the case of total sales, the State would still benefit from the acquisition premium. Interesting number 2: owners of the DZU Perspective, mutual fund Vision, are Dari and Vesna South on the list of the richest Slovenians in the fifth place. The value of their assets is estimated at EUR 145.8 million. As a matter of fact, under the table there were more construction companies sold: Gradis Celje, Gradis SPO, Ingrad Celje, SGP Tržič, VGP Novo mesto. Many of these sales of construction companies were made during this period, covering the period from 1996 to 2004. Then, of course, things settle down here. We are talking about construction companies that were somehow or most closely connected in the implementation of this national highway programme and the national motorway programme. If there is any further doubt, if there is any confusion as to whether it is necessary and whether it is necessary for the parliamentary commission of inquiry to find out certain irregularities, to conclude with them also in the form of a final report, that such final report should be received by Members and Members before the end of the mandate, then, of course, this Commission will justify its work. Otherwise, the mandate of such an investigative commission shall also be terminated by the end of the term of office. As it has been repeatedly pointed out today that it is impossible to complete all the tasks arising from the justification of the parliamentary investigation act at this time, it should be pointed out that this is not a case-by-case matter because this is too much. If we just took the folder that our fellow Member was dealing with in the previous term with one part of the state road where he collected a folder that weighs three kilograms, then you know what that means. That this is really impossible. And I agree with those who say this is impossible. But what I've warned you today, I'll say again. It was known as the formula. It was known how, in what way some had influence and power, about the uneconomic, untransparent, irrational use of public funds, which were strictly designed for enforcement resulting from the national programme for the construction of motorways. There is no coincidence and it is no coincidence that the construction situation in the area of motorway construction in the Republic of Slovenia changed so quickly that some of the constructions were irritated and went to dizzying numbers. In the final phase, the project proved to have surpassed 400% more than originally planned or some had reached out to business, they were already basically agreed to make such an offer in order to get in to be the most favourable. And many remember who was in charge of this highway construction lobby in the Republic of Slovenia. That's familiar. And many individuals, many of the owners of construction companies, have failed because there was no respect for those small ones, because the big ones wanted everything, there was nothing left for the small ones. Many have failed, many have ended up with the operation of their company. And if not, let us, at least in this parliamentary investigation, find out who those causes the uneconomic spending of this money were, but which resulted in this national highway construction programme being moved from year to year. Many times today it was justified how it was, and for four years, five years, and it has been added, after this last variant we have, we will be building a highway by 2013. Of course, that's outrageous. And I stress, but now this government is on the move to provide the means to accelerate all necessary procedures to complete the construction of the freeway from Drazenec to Gruškov.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Replica, Mr. Kampush. Then Mr. Pojibich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u140	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] Thank you, President. [[...]] I listened carefully to the proposaler's not off [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u141	Wait a minute. I think it's just a complication that someone pressed too fast and will have to wait a second or two. Please, a replica of Mr. Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u142	The Honorable President. I listened attentively to the proposaler, my colleague Marinič, and at the outset I saw that his reasoning was also such - that one of today's debaters was talking about signing a contract, going to lunch, having lunch or having lunch or signing an annex after lunch, one or two. I assume that this colleague who made this statement was at lunch, and I assume he was at lunch. I would therefore suggest that this distinguished gentleman is one of the first to be asked what happened to these lunches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u144	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this investigation. I am also convinced that this investigation is in the public interest. I am also sure that those colleagues and colleagues who are trying to say everything else here, just not what is related to this issue, are trying to say that the Slovenian Democratic Party that has put this in is trying to cloud another situation and so on. I think it's completely unrealistic, that it's not just humiliating, that those of you who claim to be saying it, I think you're afraid of something that you're afraid of. The Slovenian Democratic Party has nothing to fear. We want to continue what the previous government of John Janša began. The former government of Janez Janša was the first Government in Slovenia to call off the Minister of Transport and Communications during the government's term of office, to call off Darsa's administration, and to proceed with prosecution proceedings against SCT, Vegrad and Primorje. When that happened, it was only then that all those with dirty hands here engaged and tried to do everything they could to prevent Janez Janša’s government from taking back the leadership of this country. Those guys have huge reasons for that. I get that. When you cut a huge pipe into which hundreds of millions of euros are running, it is clear to you that you have to do everything you can to stop this thing from leaking again. Why do I say that? For the following reasons. If you know the public tender, you know how the damage to state property came to be done. The three key bidders in this country have practically received all the tenders when it comes to projects with large amounts of funding. And if you look at these tenders, you'll see that these three key economic operators had almost the same price. When it comes to a few ten million Euros of business and we are three bidders with the same price for a few Euros of difference. Look, only a fool in this world wouldn't understand this is a cartel deal. And he's not in this country that we could convince him that something's wrong here. There's not one! That's why our highways were more expensive by 30, 35%. And may only one Member or Member of this Parliament tell me that this is not true. This Commission of Inquiry will also be able to take a look at these calls. It will have the opportunity to obtain these documents, which will show how the cartel has been negotiated. Here's the key problem with the whole story, so we don't talk about annexes, contracts. These are the key questions. There's a big country in the country of taxpayers' money. Big country! At least 30% to 35% of highways could be cheaper if this were not the case and if this country did not allow through its political botars that these three barons could have controlled a complex building lobby, including the participation of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the participation of Dars and so on. When you look at Darsa's administration at the Ministry of Transport and Communications and these three barons, you connect it together, you'll understand! Everything. This is where the circles are closed. That's what matters to me. The government of Janez Janša was the first in this Slovenian country to attempt these stinking, dirty, ugly pigs. Bastards who don't have a case! Poor people work for 400, 300 euros! Some road baron comes in. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Sorry, I'm a little loud, you're right. [[...]] He's coming in with a helicopter! My dear colleagues, can anyone in this House buy a helicopter? Tell me! You can buy it if you do it with the money coming from the Treasury. It's the only way you can do it, or you can't do it because he's not in this country, except maybe some individual who, with his huge engagement and the quality of his work, proved that he could get that kind of property. And I could count those on my fingers in Slovenia, for sure. So it seems to me that those who barter only with state money should not do so and could never have allowed it, but at least to earn it. Never! So, dear colleagues, I'm sure this investigation is necessary. Slovenian people, Slovenian people have enough of this cover-up. Believe me, he's got enough. He can't watch this anymore. I talk to simple people because I appreciate them because I'm one of them. And it's these simple people who can tell me exactly what I'm saying here. These simple people have grown tired of the beautiful words and beauties that speak in this way and try to speak in a good way. They've never worked in their lives for one second. They don't have one second of their life's work from where money is made. And as long as Parliament is so composed, the majority in this House will find it very difficult to understand those people who, with their hands and with great difficulty, earn money to survive. And there's no problem in bringing a helicopter to the road where two or three more have to keep you from falling off a helicopter; that's what's the biggest tragedy of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u145	Procedurally, please, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you, President, one question and I'm asking you to find out. I listened with interest to Mr Pojbič's debate, but in this debate it was also felt that, at least I understood that in the previous term Janez Janša and his government had ordered an investigation into Slovenian companies, it is said, these barons, as he named them. I hope that we live in a state of law and that this work is done by the police and the prosecution, and not by political parties. So I would ask you, Mr President, to find out that this is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u147	Mr. Han [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u148	Yes, I would just like to find out whether Janez Janša is doing this or whether the police and the prosecution are conducting investigations in Slovenia. Before me, the speaker said that John Janša and his government were doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The proposed question therefore concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure. This was a substantive question that we should ask elsewhere. The answer was rhetorical, rhetorical, rhetorical, and I ask you not to give me such procedural questions. The word has You can't have a replica on a procedural question, Mr Pojbič. [[...]] You can't have a replica on a procedural question. The word is Daniel Krivec. Procedurally, Mr. Saiovic. Please. With regard to the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much, President. I think it would be helpful to study whether such talk, as we have just heard it, contributes to the reputation of Parliament. Someone who doesn't know the story would think that this House is home to the self-frozen, people who haven't done anything in their lives. Everyone, of course, should speak and judge above all himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u151	Here too, Mr Saiovic, this was not a question of the Rules of Procedure. In the National Assembly, everyone is responsible for his or her own words, both in front of colleagues who can respond to him or in front of the public. And that's it. The word is Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I will support this act of parliamentary investigation. However, I would like to touch on some more purely principled findings, as most of you are starting to identify some of the things that will be the responsibility of the commission that we will appoint. You all deal mainly with motorways, which is one of the major areas, but you all forget about other construction investments, which have also experienced quite a lot of encouragement, multiples, etc. I ask myself about the responsibility that this commission will find, I think it is appropriate, and I substantiate this. We can see that in Slovenia we have 200 municipalities, which are also those that draw public money, but I hardly know the mayor who would afford to invest in multiples of incentives, whether in the road area, in any infrastructure that is also public, provided by public money, in a health house, in a pharmacy or something like that. This is only happening in state projects. And I think in the National Assembly we're sort of the kind of carriers that have to alert and also trigger an investigation like that. As I said, there is no mayor who would not answer if an investment in this way exceeded the capacity of his budget. And I think that's important information. It is said that there have been anomalies in this area of construction on the whole palette. I think that this monitoring, the commission, is necessary to find out some facts and that such inconsistencies and anomalies will not continue. As you have all mentioned, a major project on railway infrastructure is being prepared, which means a similar supply as a motorway, if not a larger one, and it is difficult for me to imagine that in the National Assembly some investments will be confirmed with the awareness that they will increase in the coming years. That would be inappropriate. That's why I'm warning you again. There is no municipality, no mayor, no municipal council to deal with this matter at the local level. This means that it is also right for the National Assembly and this country to disagree with such anomalies. That's why I'm undermining this act establishing this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u154	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The issue of usefulness often arises, and today it has also emerged with this committee. If you're suggesting something, it's useful if we propose in the opposition, it's useless. If we ignore the dimensions of this question, it is normal that this investigation is useful, if not for another reason, because of what has been said a little earlier. We are ahead of the implementation of one of the biggest projects, this is investing in railway infrastructure in Slovenia, and I think it is important that we, within this Commission, find what cannot be happening in this area. This is that they will not participate in this next mega-megalo in Slovenia, always the same players, who, in parallel with their participation in the construction of the highway network, have also, of course, become self-possessed. I think that if any commission was appropriate and necessary and important, it is the one we are setting up today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the motioner Branko Marinič? The motioner wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much for giving me this opportunity, in today's debate, which has been substantively rich, we can conclude in the sense that we are so Members and Members, regardless of any political option we come from, before one fact: we are responsible to the people for spending public money, which we approve of for a final distribution with a push on the "for" button, to all those who later in the executive branch of the government carry out matters. And let this parliamentary commission of inquiry really begin its work as soon as possible with the aim of not repeating itself in the future and that so far some famous formula or established practice in the building lobby would not be repeated just before the big project that awaits us and in which we are likely to be discussing MEPs and Members in the current composition of the National Assembly. This is the planned major investment in public rail infrastructure, which, as the competent transport minister said yesterday, would have started next year - I hope it will. So, there are public calls that the legislative authorities must not allow in individual laws shortcomings in the sense that, later on, invitations to tender would be written on the skin of some who in the past have earned too much, who have collected too much public money. From how much public money has been spent since 1996 in road infrastructure, there has been much, much too much. Many too many percent of the projects exceeded some reasonable value, but at least that is the case, the consequences of some public officials involved, which were important in such and other public money use decisions. It may also be at the expense of the legislative branch of government, which may have been aware of good solutions, but it later turned out that these matters were malicious, that these substantive changes may have been written on the skin of some who were convinced that they were the only ones in Slovenia who were able to obtain such large projects, which were easily obtained in public tenders, because they were well organised and well connected, even at the expense of those small ones being put out. And that's not good. Don't let a story like that happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yes, he does. So, please, for the application. Everyone has three minutes at their disposal. The word is Jakob the Presester, please, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've listened a little myself, we've been getting these new phones a little bit, I haven't heard all of it, but I want to say that I signed this request for a parliamentary inquiry mainly because no one would think I'm running from any responsibility or from any debate. Our client has also been mentioned as the one who has led the Ministry of Transport in recent years, and I must say that I am one of those who are proud to have done so much in this highway programme. And I'm sorry, today I'm sorry that when this highway program concludes that we don't have any projects to go on, for other developmental axes, for the railway and so on. Here will be major problems in the coming years, because we do not have it ready, but believe me, put routes into space and satisfy or any way in the local environment - some are also sitting here, with unreasonable demands and delays and so on stalling to put individual routes into space. I'm actually disturbed by debates like "full pockets". My wife called me in the middle and asked me where this contents of the pockets is now, which is what Parliament is talking about. Another time. Of course it is necessary, I am in favour of proving some corruption to prove crime - if it was. I am in all areas of this, whether it be high-end investment or one we are talking about today or another. I am convinced that it is also necessary to prove that one of our colleagues has been accused of performing the exam or that someone has performed the exam in his place. So one thing bothers me is that in this debate there was a company mentioned in which I, too, had been in the past for years, which, at least until a few years ago, had nothing to do with the construction of a highway network. And of course, it's not possible to talk about individual charges. However, consideration must also be given to the value of the project - I do not know who to call to account now. Those who did the evaluation in 1992 and 1993 without any specific information, or those who did so under local conditions, etc., irritated the matter. Besides, of course, what is laid down in this investigation. So thank you very much. I will also support this investigation for the reason that I first stated it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u160	Some others were written before me. If they gave up, it would be fair for you to give us more time. So today it was mentioned in the debate that the projects I called megaprojects, where it is somehow normal for changes to occur in the value of these projects and that these projects are being encouraged by 20%, 30%. Maybe that's really normal. I would say that it is not very normal, but it is possible to justify it because in larger projects there are more of these unforeseen circumstances to be reckoned with. But that the project is encouraged twice, three times, four times, even eight times, and that it does not respond to these impressions, nor to the control of the competent institution, while many, both in the present and in the past, who should exercise both control and all the other elements in these cases, are engaged in a variety of brooms; what the presidents of parliamentary parties have talked about and what a great mystery some of them have betrayed; when these have a lot of time to deal with matters in this country that have nothing to do with their professional work, they have passed over stories that say far that something was wrong in these transactions. Especially if we take on a lease, under what circumstances these transactions took place. These deals were happening more or less among the same actors. Remember. Then there were some orange-black disks. First it was a black disk, then it sent an orange disk. No one's gone wrong about this! When there was a recent story about the Markovec tunnel, there was a big shout and a scream by some in this country, what a great harm it would be to the citizens if this tunnel occurred six months or one year later because the tender procedure had been cancelled. And what was the result? A company from the other end of Slovenia appeared and offered for, I don't know, 40 or 50% lower price than the one that submitted the original offer. All of these are reasons for not being treated with due diligence in this area and for knowingly or unknowingly being left behind to those players who have appeared on the domestic market, that they have also adopted their own or now their companies through these transactions. The question whether this is good from the point of view of the Slovenian economy and the question whether this is good for future larger projects that we will still be witnessing to them. It is therefore right for this Commission to take seriously this challenge, to demonstrate seriously those things that have been bad in this procedure, to take appropriate measures or to require appropriate appropriate measures against those who have acted in this business in an untransparent, irresponsible, and possibly illegal way, and not to repeat this similar story, in a manner similar to that of major infrastructure projects that will continue to take place in the future in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before that, I had a desire to replicate, but I did not meet both of the conditions that were for me to discuss earlier and to be mentioned in the debate. However, my parliamentary group, which I belong to, has been mentioned and let me say that Mr Jerovšek spoke about the fact that even when MEPs and Members are discussing it, they give weight to the proposal and that they have discussed MEPs and Members who do not have much in common with transport. In doing so, let me say that they have at least as much in common as Joseph Jerovšek and at least as well know the construction of roads as Mr Jerovšek does. By the way, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Weber has spoken, from the outset, since 1996 when he began his mandate in the National Assembly, he has been working on the construction of roads and is also able to understand this from his performance. It is true, however, that it is not within our parliamentary group to seek the same imagination as some have, and as was the case with colleague Jerovšek, who is from the highway cross, with which he is indeed the cross, and also with other roads in Slovenia, has crossed even to postwar beatings. You need a very active imagination to do that, and I certainly don't deny it. Otherwise, talking about whether we support or not to support the investigation is actually pointless at this point in time, if the request meets the conditions and conditions are met, this investigative commission will and will work. But we can walk her on the road with different feelings. Let me say that my feelings in view of the experience so far with the investigative commissions are not good and personally I do not expect a very good result from the work of this Commission, but any other. In doing so, I do not want this conclusion to be turned into a fact, these are my assessments. And I wish the Commission all the best in doing my job.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Chamber on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote in favour of Parliamentary Investigation, so I note that the Parliamentary Chamber has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation, execution of construction investments of public interest in the construction of motorways and economic infrastructures financed by the State budget, in view of the suspicion that the procedures and transactions have been politically agreed, conducted in a non-transparent and unconcerned manner, and the suspicion of the presence of customerism, corruption and interconnections between the various operators involved in the preparation, public procurement and the execution of construction business, and the procedures of property transformations and the management of construction companies, and in this regard in particular to ensure the suspicion of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and their role in doing so. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to: First time. To determine whether projects have been carried out transparently and with the care of a good host. Another time. To determine whether tenders and signed contracts have been carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Third time. Identify and clarify the conditions and procedures for the award of public contracts, the selection of tenders, negotiations and the content of tenders. Fourth time. To determine whether all the legislation adopted in the National Assembly was respected in the implementation of the projects. Fifth. To determine whether the budgetary resources for the use of funds have been drawn up rationally, intentionally and have been drawn up in accordance with the rules. Six. To determine whether public function holders have handled all due care in urban spatial and environmental investment processes. It's a week. To establish, disprove or demonstrate that urban and spatial and environmental investment processes have been misused by public function holders and thus unjustifiable benefits and corruption. Eight. To determine whether additional works which increased the basic investment values were real or were the result of a pre-arranged procedure for the award of low-supply works favouring certain tenderers and to establish the interconnectivity of public function holders in such proceedings. Nine. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with their political impact on the selection of negotiations and on the signing of contracts. Ten years. Identify the level of political responsibility of individual public function holders in the execution of individual projects. Eleventh time. Identify, prove or disprove the State's alleged injury to individual projects. Twelve. To identify, prove or disprove suspicions about the links of individuals in the chain contracting entity-projector-executor-supervisor with the institution of public functions, which would allow for unjustified benefits and damage to the State. Thirteenth time. To find, prove or disprove the suspicion that such links involved blackmail and political guidance among individuals in this chain. Fourteenth time. Identify the responsibility of the holders of public functions in the preparation of public procurement calls and their links and prior arrangements with the tenderers. Fifteenth. To establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that there has been bribery and other corruption in the negotiation between public service providers in the procurement process and potential tenderers, which have contributed to the unjustifiable acquisition of business and to the injury of the State. Sixteenth time. To determine whether the award of public contracts by public function holders was favoured by individual tenderers, which prevented competition. Seventeenth time. To determine whether there were related transactions between tenderers which were politically agreed in the award of public contracts in the area of major construction investments. Eighteenth time. To determine whether it took place in the selection of motorway programme operators by Darsa to systematically adapt the tendering conditions in such a way that contracts with the same companies could be concluded. Nineteenth time. To verify the suspicion of the existence of interest groups and their links with public function holders and their corrupt impact on Dars' governance and control authorities in the selection of construction workers to achieve unjustified benefits. It's a 20-year-old. Check all procedures from planning and placing routes in the area of changes to projects before and during construction, in particular those where the final evaluation of the project deviated significantly from the original, with a view to determining whether there were potential abuses of the situation, corruption and unintended spending of tax money in order to achieve the private benefit of businesses and individuals. One-twenty. Check the suspicion of a direct or direct link between the construction companies and their legitimate representatives and the public function holders between the property conversion procedures and the manager's purchases of construction companies, especially the SCT, which has done the most since 1996 on motorway projects in the Republic of Slovenia. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry. The investigation should cover the following projects of major construction investments of public interest and the process of property transformations and the management purchases of construction companies, which have been involved in motorway projects of the Republic of Slovenia since 1996. First time. Motorway projects in the Republic of Slovenia since 1996. Another time. Renovation of the vehicle in the Trojan motorway tunnels. Third time. Economic public infrastructure projects financed from the State budget since 1996. Fourth time. Procedures for property transformations and management purchases of construction companies that have participated in motorway projects in the Republic of Slovenia since 1996. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. POINT OF THE DAY-TERM ACT ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE PARALLAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF CLIENTISM AND THE CORRUPTIVE EQUATION OF THE HIGH SCHOOL MINISTRY, THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY OF MR GREGOR GROBIC ON THE ACCESS TO THE Acquisition OF SPECIFIC RECORDS AND BUSINESS IN PUBLIC COMMITMENTS IN THE ULTERN GROUP (PROVAL CARD OF URBAN, THE FOLLOWING SYSTEM AND THE AUTOBUS AUTHORITIES O.O., a fictitious job protecting the Economic Society Mercator D. D., elektronisation of student food to be carried out by the management company Margareto R&D D. O.O. ITD), Mr. Gregor Golobič co-owner, and in transferring the area of electronic communications from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in order to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion that Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, has concealed taxes, unjustifiably acquired the status of farmer for the purchase of agricultural land and has failed the competent authorities to demonstrate his wealth status and origin, to establish the political responsibilities of Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in order to avoid paying taxes to the Republic of Slovenia with active participation in raising the tax burden on citizens of Slovenia and to establish political responsibility for the suspicion of clientism and corruption of Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in order to raise the tax burden on citizens of Slovenia and to establish political responsibility for the suspicion of clientism and corruption of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Higher Education. The request for the establishment of a parliamentary investigation and pursuant to Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of thirty-three Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of Jozet Tank for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. The publication of data on the property situation of Gregor Golobic, who appeared before the European elections in some media, and compared with those shown by the president of the so-called anti-corruption commission, really showed the real face of the new policy that led to the elections in September 2008. It has been shown that laws and principles are not all the same as that some individuals have extremely strong political and institutional protection and that the measures and proposals they make to the National Assembly of the Government, the coalition group or individual members of the coalition are mostly not intended to regulate the situation, but, above all, to mislead and conceal. On the one hand, the authorities strongly propose so-called anti-Tacunkun measures and laws that want to be displayed in public as decisive fighters against favours, corruption, clientism and legality, and on the other hand, public officials come from the same parties, even ministers who are suspected of being and are involved in a number of suspicious transactions and who have obtained huge assets in a few years at the same time, which are now hidden and are systematically outside all treatments and procedures. The various organs didn't notice anything. The transition was a process that caused large pieces of social property to be moved from common to private property. This could only happen with clienteleistic, illegal, vertical and horizontal intertwined and closed political ties. Many of these acts and affairs have been covered by the so-called national interest. It is interesting that when we develop the transition bench, we reach those who are firmly under the control of Forum 21 and belong to the Social Democrats, Liberal Democracy and Zares and therefore have, and still have, the public support of the former President of the Republic of Kučan. No affair has come to an end. Many are stuck at different stages, many are obsolete, many have not even been conceived, which has not been very good for supervisory authorities, special offices and commissions, which are supposed to keep an eye on the correct functioning of public systems. In fact, by such a way of controlling or by public standards, violators have given only additional public influence and power and the public the signal that ours - not to be mistaken - is yours if I use the classification of Prime Minister Pahor - nothing can happen. That is why the President of the Government of Pahor did not propose the discharge of Minister Golobic when data on his very large and important work at anonymous companies abroad came on the day. Gregor Golobič, in the election campaign, shined as a fighter for legality and transparency in public action, who was pleased to teach everything that needs to be done and how to work transparently and legally with public finances. Did he really do that? Probably not, otherwise I wouldn't have said that he was covering up information about his public property just because he wanted to protect Ultra. Why would a cover-up be necessary if it's all O. K.?Oh, my God! If all the data are correct, if the property has been legally acquired, if all the projects have been properly supported and co-financed by public funds from the State, public enterprises, institutions and municipalities? If all of Ultra's credits were obtained under normal and generally applicable conditions, then there is absolutely no reason to hide data on property, business shares and acquired loans. If that is not the case, then everything that is controversial and objectionable must be kept secret from the public. The media has drawn some octopuses, which are not even completed in postal collectors in tax havens abroad and in which Minister Golobič is expected to be owned. This is probably the reason why the public and probably the so-called Kosovo Commission did not provide the correct data, since only one company was identified in the document shown by Kos. Some discovered business and financial flows only deepen these suspicions. A few days ago, the media rewrote about Makro 5, which is not only known from the construction of the pediatric clinic, which treated the former Minister of Health. This company invested at the University of Primorsk. Due to large overruns and deviations from the budget lines, the previous Minister of Higher Education refused to make payments. Gregor Golobič did so after several months of his term. Makro 5 also performed works on the Golobič house in Primorska. It is also impossible to overlook transactions from the Ultra system with Mercator and MOL, Municipality of Ljubljana, with the current mayor of the Municipality of Zoran Jankovic appearing in both connections. In his city coalition, he has councilmen from the Party of Zares and has strongly supported the current coalition troika in recent elections. Urban City Card, the bus tracking and control system, and Mercator's unpaid security payments are transactions that raise doubts and raise suspicions in the media and in the opposition, and should probably also be in the investigating authorities. There are also high loans granted by Ultri by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which, according to media reports, are inadequately secured. Despite Ultra New Ljubljana's call, the data bank does not wish to disclose, but Ultra can also do so without any difficulty; of course, if, according to Mr Urbanija, this is the most transparent company in Slovenia at all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were accused of providing data on poorly secured loans to the public, although it was clear at that time that they had come from circles very close to Liberal Democracy as a result of bloody fighting within the coalition for the acquisition of state property. The political give-dam works, as confirmed by the three amendments of the coalition members to the second balance, also signed by the President of the National Assembly. And they give the City Municipality 30 million euros, probably as a payment of the coalition to Mayor Jankovic for his past work and support in the elections. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Not yet withdrawn [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u165	Peace in the hall! Allow Mr. Tank to say whatever he thinks and what he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u166	It is interesting that the highest peaks of Slovenian politics, including those who did not need to do so, such as the President of the Republic or the President of the National Assembly, responded immediately to the disclosure of hidden information on Gregor Golobic's assets. For example, the President of the Republic responded by assessing that Gregor Golobič had not acted unlawfully but had only made a mistake. We wonder who in this country determines the degree or legality. The President of the Republic, by constitutional position, does not. The response of the President of the Republic says much, however, has a great message value for the Slovenian public, as it has once again pointed to those who deserve a first-class position and second and further opportunities, and those who need to become second-class. The fact that there is a link between the Office of the President of the Republic and the situation with Ultra also confirms in yesterday's Journal that the head of the registration at the District Court in Ljubljana is 12. 6. mediated a judgment on the settlement between Ultra and the Japanese NTT Docomo to the head of public relations at the Office of the President of the Republic of Mojci Seliškar Toš. In the office of the President of the Republic, they deny it, but this is a note published in the Journal that denies it. The statement by the President of the Republic is not only a subtle but an obvious message to the Court of Auditors, the Information Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Prosecutors, the Judges, the Money Laundering Agency, the Bank of Slovenia, the New Ljubljana Bank and others, how to act in this case. Many wonder what the President of the Republic owes the Minister to cover him politically and try to preserve him as an honorable politician. Why did he do it, and why just him? At the same time, a wave of systematic treatments, surviving and outdated stories, bizarre hearings, various opinions and prohibitions are being conducted, questionnaires are being sent and marginal themes are being opened that serve only to divert attention from the Golobič case and are in the protection of Golobič. It seems that there is a circle in the area of Domžal that deals, coordinates and systematically doses themes and aims only to distract attention from the Golobič, Katarina Kresal, government and other politicians of the current government structure and are aimed only at the degradation of the work and achievements of the coalition and coalition politicians in the previous term. How can the public assess Kosovo's behaviour in the case of Golobič when it has so rushed and hastened itself by showing the application form of Golobič's assets, in which only one company with extremely low value has been written, placed in the defence of Golobič and then mysteriously silenced, while some other cases are so systematically and publicly treated with principled opinions and prognosis of the initiation of procedures. Nevertheless, a satisfactory response was still not given to what is happening to other companies and their values, in which Gregor Golobič shares and in which they do not end in tax havens. We have also not yet received an explanation as to why it is acceptable that a minister receiving public wages, i.e. from our taxes, businesses or postal collectors established abroad, is also paying taxes there, while at government meetings the same minister decides to increase excise duties, taxes and invitations to tender due to under-inflows to the state budget. That's a little perverse, too. Since there are no satisfactory answers because the entire political summit, the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the entire coalition and some institutions have put in place in defence of Gregor Golobič's conduct, there is no other option in his political protection than to impose a commission of inquiry which will systematically carry out verifications of the suspicions of clientism, the corrupt behaviour of Gregor Golobic in obtaining public grants from the public tender of the State and the Municipality of Ljubljana, the examination of alleged fictitious transactions, the verification of tax evasion, the suspicion of political assistance in obtaining poorly secured loans to Ultra companies and the suspicion of unjustified acquisition of the status of the farmer and the investigation of certain other suspicions and acts covered by the request for determination of the investigation. Although Minister Gregor Golobič's former piarovka Zares and current cabinet manager, namely, the person who was supposed to be particularly close to the minister, Tina Hrastnik wrote on "facebook" an important phrase in the translation or the meaning of "vengeance will be sweet", we expect that the investigation will take place properly, without political pressure, without interference from various commissions and guardians, and that there will also be a coalition, including the party Zares - a new policy, engaged in a creatively and proved that that the record on "facebook" was only a failure, a lapsus and did not instruct or even an official position of the party Zares-new policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by Rado Likar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support any investigation that could help to clear up certain contentious acts of individuals or groups. We have also taken the same position in the case of a request for a parliamentary inquiry aimed in particular at investigating the suspicion of clientelism and the corruption of the public function holder, Mr Gregor Golobič, for obtaining substantial public grants and public procurement for companies in the Ultra Group and for investigating the suspicion of clientelism and corruption of the public service provider for obtaining poorly secured loans granted by the New Ljubljana Bank, which is in majority state ownership, for companies in the Ultra Group; for investigating the suspicion that the public function holder, Mr. Gregor Golobič, has concealed taxes, wrongly acquired the status of the farmer for the purchase of agricultural land and for the competent authorities to display their assets in an incomplete manner and its origin; for determining the political responsibility of the public function holder, Mr. Gregor Golobič, in order to avoid paying taxes in Slovenia to increase the public tax on public participation in Slovenia. At a time when the state of Slovenia is struggling with the consequences of the growing economic and financial crisis, when the unemployment rate is steadily rising, the country is legally supporting the reprogramming of Taiwanese loans with State guarantees. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pursuing an interest which is undoubtedly also the interest of the majority of citizens to learn all about the controversial work of the people we have entrusted to them in the elections. The case of Gregor Golobič is not new and has not been new since yesterday, but it was the reason for the re-update of this on the day of the information that Mr Gregor Golobič silenced journalists that he had a ownership stake in the Dutch company Ultra and thus in the Zagreb Ultra. Perhaps even more than the fact that the holder of the public office in the position of minister did not say that the owner of the company is abroad, it is important how it came to this property. Of course, lying or forgetting to tell the truth is not nice or moral. It's more questionable if a politician who is also a minister does so. It is a matter of concern if he is supported by his client colleagues. It is totally unacceptable, however, that we would do the same if we were in his place, including the President of the Government and the former and current President of the State. In this case, however, we may already be concerned about our values. In time, such a pattern of behavior will be accepted as something in itself conditional. This raises the question why Mr Gregor Golobič has not said that he has his shares in a company operating abroad or why he has transferred the company's share abroad. There are two possible explanations. The intention is to cover the property against the domestic public or because of a lower tax liability in so-called tax havens where taxes are paid substantially less than in Slovenia. According to information, the capital gains in the Netherlands, as well as in Singapore, to which Mr Gregor Golobič transferred his assets in the form of inactive companies or mailboxes, are not taxed at all under certain conditions. And this is done by Gregor Golobič, who has put higher ethical standards at the forefront of his client's programme of real-new policy, the President of which he has set. On the one hand, he raised expectations in people that perhaps something would change for the better, and on the other hand he activated and put together an unintentional coalition of those who, without customeristic connections, could virtually not exist. I would also like to recall that Minister Golobič, on the one hand, avoids paying taxes and, on the other hand, actively participates as Minister in raising the tax burdens on his citizens, who are rapidly deteriorating in their social situation and increasingly bear this burden. It can logically be concluded that there is a reasonable suspicion that the reason for concealing property is precisely in the illegal tax evasion. The additional reason for this is the information that Gregor Golobič purchased a stake in Ultra for EUR 2500 in 2006. According to experts' assessment, this share is worth about a million euros today, and tax should be paid of this astronomical return and why it should not be avoided by moving its assets into tax havens and paying taxes at home to unintelligible citizens. In the period 1999 to 2003, Ultra received over 250 million SITs, or over a million Euros of state aid, and the business was expected to flourish until 2005, when the company’s leaders said that this activity fell due to the change of power. With the return of the left option to power, which is part of the party Zares and its President, Gregor Golobič, and earlier by electing mayors close to the party, businesses in the Ultra Group with public companies and businesses in the majority ownership of the country began to flourish again. Ultra was selected in 2008 at the public tender of the Municipality of Ljubljana for the implementation of the project Single Urban Card. Among the three bidders who applied for the tender, Ultra was chosen, regardless of the fact that the competing company Fourth Road offered a lower price of over EUR million. Despite the poorer and significantly less favourable offer, Ultra was selected, which is undoubtedly close to the mayor, even more so, with the May balance of the Ljubljana budget, an additional EUR 2.4 million was allocated for the project. The suspicion of irregularities also points to the fact that the State Audit Commission has rejected the request for a review of the contested transaction made at the request of the company Fourth Path. The impact of Gregor Golobič also extends to the area of introduction of electronic tolling on our motorways. His client, Zares, has even organised a consultation for motorists by presenting a proposal for tolling supported by the party Zares. It is supposed to be a highly technical issue. All right, if - again this "if" - Golobič's company Tellargo, one of the companies in the Ultra group, co-owned by Gregor Golobič, addressed to the Government the role of establishing a public-private partnership for the establishment of a Slovenian satellite electronic tolling system based on satellite technology. The investment value of the project is estimated at EUR 1.2 billion. From the point of view of protecting the privacy of the individual, this project was immediately supported by the information officer Natasha Pirc Musar. The impact of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič, also extends to the area of e-electronics of student nutrition. The only candidate in the adjusted business bid worth more than EUR million per year is Margento, whose co-owner is Gregor Golobič. The second co-owner of this company is DNS, owner of Dnevnik. The invitation to tender was prepared by the Slovenian Student Organisation by establishing the exclusion clause that the system should only be made on the basis of a portable phone. Thus, it was already known in advance that the best bidder was only one - Margento. Others also wanted to apply for the invitation, but they did not do so as the invitation to tender was published on the website of the Student Organisation and on the website of the Official Journal. In fact, the condition was that the student would be able to demonstrate the right to apply the subsidy only by means of a mobile phone as an identification tool, and the use of a non-contact smart card would be an additional option. Therefore, no other company could apply for such an invitation to tender other than Ultra and its subsidiaries. The suspicion of clienteleism and corruption is also reflected in the Saz Group's disclosure of the affair, which was directly linked to Ultra, which Mercator, during the administration of Zoran Jankovic, had allocated 833 000 euros as an advance for security services that had never been delivered. At the end of 2005, the funds were informed by the financial service that the item with the Saz Group could not be closed because it had not been realised, but was returned. All the clues indicate that it was a fictitious business. Mr Gregor Golobič is also involved in agriculture in addition to other activities. After writing to the media in 1999, he bought a farm plot along with a protected forest in Vinjola, Slovenia. According to the legislation at the time, only farmers were allowed to purchase such land, and prior to the purchase it was necessary to acquire the status of a farmer, and all consent must be given to the administrative unit to make a declaration that the buyer would carry out an agricultural activity on the property and thereby create an important part of the income. This means that the farm should generate income of 2/3 of the average wage in the country. In January 1999, it was at least EUR 300 per month. The predominant right for Golobič's property was enjoyed by the border and nearby farmers, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and the municipality of Piran, but did not establish it. The parliamentary investigation will have to investigate all the circumstances with regard to the purchase of agricultural land and determine the political and possible criminal liability of Mr Gregor Golobič. The suspicion of clientelism and corruption also shows the fact that Macro 5 - construction, there in the previously mentioned Vinjolas builds the house, received the full debt for renovation of the Armeria Palace, the contracting authority of which is the University of Primorska. The former government rejected this payment because the value of parts for this palace, without the consent of the founder, increased from €4.7 million to €7.8 million. Other suspicious transactions in the Ultra Group are also the insurance conditions under which NLB granted loans. On this subject, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission also met on which we received a document on the display of NLB's exposures or credit insurance granted to Ultra Group and Holding Temple Group, the Temple Holding. The letter also stated that the loans were secured and that there was no indication of the appropriateness of the insurance. There is also doubt as to the appropriateness of the behaviour of NLB in the position of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank not to provide the public and the Commission with all the information related to the approved loans of the Ultra Group, even though they were obliged to remain silent on its part. According to media reports, Ultra at Nova Ljubljana Bank has credits of EUR 6.1 million secured by real estate worth EUR 100,3000,380. Ultra values them so in his business report. And there are three valid mortgages on that. This is also one of the questions which will need to be answered and which I hope this investigative commission will give. We ask our citizens justifiably and we are looking for an answer to where the bureaucrats and politicians have so much money as it is likely that everything is clear if an enterprise where the minister is a part-owner registers an invitation from the Ministry where that Minister controls the mechanism and the correctness of the implementation of the tenders. In order to investigate all the circumstances of the suspicion of clientism, corruption, concealing the actual property and origin of the property, poorly secured loans by the State bank and avoiding and tax evasion by the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the President of the Party of Zares, Mr Gregor Golobič, and thereby his political responsibilities in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the request for the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry. We are confident that the parliamentary investigation will answer some of the questions that are definitely in the public interest, as they are ultimately the means of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that in Slovenian independent history, we do not remember the case of such a largely ruthless and unforgivable political and media lynx of political personality, as we have been monitoring it in recent weeks in the case of Golobič. The relatively insignificant content of the silence of 10% of the share in a private enterprise before, I stress the media and the public, built a story of removal and cruel accounting with a policy that is clearly thorny in the fifth many; individuals, political competition and many lobbying. There are certainly many motives for abetting and maximizing his error, but they have exceeded all the limits of common sense and proportionality. Let me therefore remind you, not because of excuses or avoiding problems, but because of the proportionality and comparison of the weight of cases on some major affairs and stories from the past, such as: a never-ending and researched affair with the sale of weapons - the mother of all affairs, damage to the construction of Slovenian hospitals, irregularities and irrationality in the construction of motorways, the purchase of patriots, the sale of Mercator and the related conquest of media space, irrational and harmful energy moves. For example, the delay in issuing a permit for the construction of the sixth block of the Šostjanj thermal power plant by former Minister Viszak was based on an estimate of 200 million auctions. The question remains open about what and why the 21 million-dollar loan of Drava power plants to the Maribor diocese. All are aware of the distributed networks and the impact of an air-conditioning company and the concealment of the construction of a new Ministry of the Interior building worth €60 million without the invitation to tender granted by Dragutin Mate. Or the enormous damage that has occurred in many companies due to politically appointed directors, as is the case with Lovšin's Inter-Europe, Palomo, Hit, Luka Koper, Petrol and so on. Millions of euros lost, lost, stolen. Damage, fraud, embezzlement, cover-up, corruption. This is not an excuse for the Golobič case, but there are huge differences between them. At least three people need to know. In view of the concealment of the ownership stake, the state and its citizens have not suffered any harm to the media alone. Nothing was stolen. After that, there is no fraud, no embezzlement. Ultra did not do business with the State at the time of its public function. With Ultra, it is a private company where no one has in a tycoon way acquired state property, because everything they have created has been done with their own work, knowledge, youth research and breakthrough team. The pigeon did not violate the legislation in any way, as it correctly declared its share there as required by the rules. So in the declaration of assets to the anti-corruption commission and to the competent tax authorities. In the media lynch against Gregor Golobič, it is certainly the national RTV and it is not difficult to determine why. Out of revenge. Because in the party, we have given the most explicit and reasoned warning of irregularities and cost-effectiveness in the use of financial resources, and we have highlighted the responsibility of the leaders on RTV. Is it normal to appear and comment on Ultra, credits, Golobič, the responsible editor of the information program of television, as if we were in a state of war or emergency in the day before today's debate? At the same time, it avoids liability for failure to publish the correction requested by Ultra and the fine imposed on him by the media inspector. The summit, however, has reached its peak with a proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, as it seeks to follow solely the political interests and exploitation of the institution of parliamentary investigation. The real purpose is not in the study of contentious matters, the public interest and the determination of the actual situation, which will be the basis for determining responsibility, but only against Gregor Golobic. For the first time, the parliamentary commission of inquiry will go exclusively to the individual, the holder of the function and not the subject. So it's public. We would therefore like to draw attention to the expert opinion of one of the Constitutional Judges, who wrote that the political and criminal prosecution of the holders of public functions must not and cannot be the purpose of the parliamentary investigation and that the key issues of the investigation are the purpose, object and boundary within which it takes place to remain legitimate and that it does not change exclusively into the political process of persecuting opponents. The initial request for a parliamentary inquiry was, at the discretion of the party, a more political pamphlet than a serious requirement. The following also shows a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service, which warned that the subject of the investigation could not be categorical but conditional and that the level of suspicion of possible irregularities should be demonstrated through the investigation. Thus, the applicants in the subject matter of the investigation have already issued a political judgment in advance, which could only be reached after the investigation has been carried out. They were also prepared to interfere with the powers of the Government and other authorities of the state administration, such as the Tax Administration. They intervened in the decision-making process in the Government and in the content of the decision itself and found that the holder of the public function was tax evasion, which is in direct contradiction with the constitutional principle of the division of power. In the parliamentary group, we really have doubts as to whether the request goes beyond the limits of the parliamentary investigation. It is a question of the extent to which the Commission's investigative rights are covered by the investigation. The fundamental question is whether everything in the request of the said case is of public interest, whether it is admissible that the investigation also covers matters which are entirely private or private in nature and of public interest do not concern and concern society as a whole. Not to mention that, given that Gregor Golobič is a public function holder for a very short period of time and that he has not been a public function holder so far, he asks how far back an investigation can take place. In the Group of Members, we also point out that the performance of the tasks of the various branches of government is separate. In relation to the examiner, the National Assembly must take into account the constitutional status of the institution of the function and must not carry out an investigation in matters beyond the competence of the National Assembly. In this regard, we also draw attention to the opinion of the Information Commissioner, which she gave in her interview for Work. I quote: "The Constitutional Court's decision on proportionality made me think. I agree that the public has the right to know how much the official has earned, or only during the exercise of his mandate. What he did and what he earned before the government service is his privacy. The public border shall take effect on the date of election and shall expire at the end of the term of office. In this case, I strongly agree with the recommendations of the Constitutional Judges." End of quote. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we are really pleased that our President and Minister Golobič will be given the opportunity to explain his actions, to respond to the charges and to prove all innocence with regard to a number of flat-rate charges. We will make this investigation possible and we know why, because we want the Slovenian public to finally know what is true in this matter and how far manipulations and lies have gone in discrediting Gregor Golobic. The manipulations, sometimes anonymously and rarely known authors, regarding Ultra began in 2004 at a belligerent session of Parliament without the slightest intention to find the truth, so it is time for these lies to cease and the commission of inquiry to be able to do so. This will be the first time that connoisseurs will have to face our party President Gregor Golobic and we are looking forward to this. The anonymous letters with which the Ultra affair began received their signatories by requesting a parliamentary inquiry. I know that not all Members who have been signed under a request have participated in the creation of these false documents, for which only TV Slovenia, A channel and SDS do not recognise that they are counterfeits, but the fact that they are manufacturers of these anonymities and signatories to this requirement is true. The cynicism of these political gestures, the cynicism that is at the very heart of the SDS, is driven into absurdity in our story. People made sure that forged documents came into some media, and made sure that these media made a sensation out of it. They now take this media curiosity as the basis of their parliamentary inquiry request. As it is said, the parliamentary investigation is intended to determine the truth. This matter was largely about the issue of truth and lies, and this is all the more important. But the signatories failed on their first exam, thus demonstrating their true purpose. The facts were written just in a request for an investigation. Thus, Golobič is said to be happy to avoid opening up tax collectors in tax havens, and it is publicly known that the Netherlands is not a tax haven but a member of the European Union with Europe. However, I must also point out that all those who report avoidance of taxes to Golobic - and the SDS in this case does not state this as a suspicion, but as a fact - have not mentioned even half the argument in what way this is supposed to happen. Another such unrealistic claim is that Golobič admitted co-ownership in Ultra Sum to the public only after it had caught him on the lie. That Golobič is a co-owner, was said at a press conference of the management of Ultra when no media had this information yet. It is true that later one of the media houses wanted to attribute this information as the success of research journalism. But it was only a poor cover-up that until Ultra's publication they could not disclose this information, despite the fact that in the Netherlands the data on the owners of the company at the price of one and a half euros were made available on the Internet. And let's see what the plaintiffs are reading to Golobich, what they suspect. At first glance, it is surprising that he is accused of things that were investigated by them when they were in power and that they did not detect any irregularities. The SDS would like to investigate Ultra's business with state-owned companies and potential clienteleism in this regard. However, according to the report of the newspaper Delo, Janševa was commissioned by the Government in 2005 to review the business of Ultra with Mobile and Telekom. The audit did not reveal any irregularities. We would also like to explore how Golobič could buy agricultural land when only a farmer could buy it. But it is known that SDS Minister Virant has ordered the inspection of this matter. And this surveillance didn't reveal any irregularities. The evidence of tax avoidance in the Republic of Slovenia is one of those that is almost impossible to comment on. With all the wisdom about taxes in the Netherlands, and with us to this day, no one has offered even half the useful hypothesis that Golobič should avoid or should pay for taxes. Personal taxes are paid at the place of residence, and no income can be avoided by the homeowner and Golobič if it is generated anywhere in the European Union. And since Ultra Sum doesn't have any income, so it's hard to make up which tax Ultra is supposed to avoid. The fact remains that all information on the establishment of Ultra Sum, including ownership and owners, was transmitted to the Tax Administration in 2006 and 2007. With regard to the establishment of Ultra Sum, there is also much talk about the intention of concealing ownership and the postal mailboxes. First of all, I would like to say that whoever wants to hide property does not establish businesses with its name in the European Union, especially in the Netherlands, where ownership can, as I have already said, be determined via the internet by paying the euro and half the fee. Anyone who wants to hide chooses a strawed man or a woman or sets up a company in a tax haven or an exotic country that does not give public information about business owners. A few more arguments concerning the charges that have been repeated today. Macro 5 and payment of claims for the University of Primorska. The claims that the previous government rejected Makra 5's request are false. The former government has never concluded this, but in the time of the previous government a contract was concluded, which established Makra 5's claim at all. Under this contract, high late interest was incurred and the payment of the claim was a way to prevent Macro 5 from cashing its claim by repossession of the property it had been repossessing. Macro 5 performed and completed construction works on the house of Golobič in Vinjola, many, many years before there was a complication with the University of Primorska, I repeat, the previous government brewed because this government signed a contract with Makro 5 and not Gregor Golobič. The charge that Gregor Golobič unjustifiably acquired the status of a farmer. As I have already said, Golobič had the status of a farmer at the time of the purchase of the land, which was then in 1999, or the property, worth approximately EUR 53,000 at present. It was obtained in accordance with the law on the basis of a decision issued by the Sevnica Administrative Unit. The certificate of the status of the farmer shall be kept in the records of the cases. Mr Virant also investigated this and found no irregularities. A corruption charge for obtaining poorly secured loans from NLB. The Ultra affair began with an anonymous woman who claimed that Ultra received over 20 million unsecured loans from NLB. This was denied by Ultra and NLB. Credit is for EUR 5.9 million and everyone is insured. But in the SDS, they can't deal with it, and now, nobody knows where it came from, they claim that the loans are poorly secured. For such a claim, they do not provide a minimum indication of the facts, arguments, data, documents. As the legal representatives of Ultra publicly stated at the press conference, all three Ultre credits were leased in 2002, 2006 and 2008 at Zasavje, which is part of the NLB group, adequately secured by several different insurance instruments: the flag of claims to the subscriber with cesium, the personal guarantee of the management of the company, the solidarity guarantee of the Ultra company, the mortgage on Ultre real estate and the Bianca currency. Ultrina’s loan to NLB Bank Zasavje in 2002 and 2006, totalling EUR 869 000, is secured by cyanco coins, a solidarity guarantee from Talegro, a personal guarantee from Ultre management and a mortgage on the Ultre business building in Zagorje, a tennis hall and related land. Ultrin’s loan to NLB, Banka Zasavje, from December 2008, totalling EUR 990 000 is secured by the flag of claims against the subscriber, cesium, this is a direct transfer of funds from the subscriber to the bank, the solidarity guarantee of the companies of Ultra Group, the Bianca signed notes and the mortgage on the properties of Ultra. Singapore. The legitimate representatives of Ultra publicly stated that they had no ties with any Singaporean company. I don't know where that information came from. It may have been brought by those who still go there on the basis of the purchase of Indonesian coal, which has caused great damage both to the state budget and to the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, where there are still some strong links with the members of the SDS. Gregor Golobič does not have with Foleonica, which the proponents suggest is connected to the Golobic, and we would like to see, determine his ownership, absolutely nothing. Why the establishment of Ultra Sum in the Netherlands? The question has arisen many times. Because in 2005, the hostile domestic Slovenian environment in the time of the government of Janez Janša created a situation when Ultre's business partners in the public sector, apparently in fear of the then government, terminated and cancelled contracts. As can be seen from publicly available publications, the annual report of Ultra and Finance Group, the establishment of Ultra Sum was the beginning of the transfer of Ultra's activities abroad, i.e. the expansion of Ultra's technologies and restructuring by establishing an international network of segment-oriented enterprises. They also went abroad for easier access and entry into international markets. Undoubtedly, the Netherlands was better prepared at the time of the government of Janez Janša for investors and was closer to the financial global markets. With regard to the integration of the President of the State of Danil Türk with the search for information in court. It has proved and the fact is that the note or search for information is linked to the President of the Court, not the President of the State. And Mrs Mojca, mentioned above, is a servant in court. This has also been sent to the Journal today, but unfortunately for reasons unknown to us the correction has not been published, just as there is no television in many cases. To conclude, in the Group of Members, we really believe that this investigation was not initiated in order to find the truth. Its purpose is to continue the discrediting of Gregor Golobic as a policy assessed by the SDS since 2004 as the greatest threat on the Slovenian political scene. In fact, together with coalition partners, we will make sure that this purpose fails and that this time the truth wins. This is indeed an obligation, and for Slovenia it is a necessity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u172	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group does not object to the introduction of this Commission of Inquiry, which has been reestablished in order to shift attention from the sins of the former authorities to those political opponents who are thorns in the heel because they are in power at this moment. The fact that Mr Golobič did not provide all the information to anyone who came by him about his property until he became Minister is a fabrication and no possible accusation because he was not obliged to explain anything to anyone about his property, except the Kosovo Commission. And even after he was elected Member of Parliament and became Minister. Because of this, it is ugly, downtrodden to tell people something that is not true or that no one has a right to. Nor does the public have the right to know from anyone about its property if it is obtained lawfully and if it is not bound by the law to report its assets to the anti-corruption commission, as Minister Gregor Golobič did. Also, the evidence of tax evasion on its own account, as stated by the Commission's proposal for the establishment of a commission, is distorted by the millions of assets in Ultra from the vine. That's not true until you sell some property of greater value. Only then did you realize the profits that were bound to be taxed. As long as the property only grows, only dividends can be taxed, but we do not know whether they were or whether the tax was paid or not. However, if you really know that the tax evasion has been done, then you were obliged to report it to the tax inspection or to the investigating authorities, which would have clarified the matter to the end if the suspicion was not fully substantiated, but only justified. It is interesting that the applicants are always taking political responsibilities over and over again. This is understandable, however, if we read in Youth that money from the state budget in carjolas was driven out in the previous term, unknown and illegal. Where? In this case, in order to avoid looking at what was happening at the time, it is necessary to redirect political responsibility and not only to identify political responsibility, but to cause costs for the functioning of this commission, to ensure that the President of the Commission is rewarded and that no money is paid back to taxpayers who, in no case, have lost anything to Mr Golobic in relation to these perceptions. Otherwise, that's the way it is. Mr Golobič said publicly that if any of his observations were proved to him that he would withdraw. And we believe and trust this statement. I wouldn't give it if I felt any danger in the past. True, though, it is hard to expect any of those who make up the blame in advance for someone before it has been proved to him to offer his resignation or even resign. Maybe we'll just see. I am sure that this commission is by its very nature something special, something particularly ugly, unnecessary, but we will participate in it because we will witness what will finally happen and then happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u173	Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! Article 2 of the Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. I hope that's what it is or that she'll stay. In the Slovenian National Party we are one of few, which has proved to be at least in my practice for 10 years, which we respect a fundamental principle that no one else respects: man is innocent until proven guilty. That's right. But the moments come, the events come, the instincts come, the suspicions come, there comes evidence that suggests a crime or a crime. And if we are a state of law, then the suspected crime must be identified. It is truly sad that this is not done in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for this. It's really sad. It is even sadder that at the time of the recession we have to deal with the content that we were dealing with earlier and also with this in our beautiful little but great country of Slovenia. But obviously we have to, because the ones we should be, they don't. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party is a cosigner of the parliamentary investigation order to investigate the suspicion of all of the above that I will not read. The search for political responsibility, we all know, and let people know, is actually a wonderful act that my esteemed colleague Sylven reminded me of. He said, "You know, if you want to hide something, you need to set up an investigative commission." That's true, too. Today we are talking about the suspicion of clientelism and the corruption of Mr Gregor Golobič, under point 1, for obtaining public grants and public procurement for companies in the Ultra Group where Mr Gregor Golobič is co-owner. At a time when Mr Gregor Golobič was out of politics and was employed in a company, Ultrine or Ultra itself, he had the absolute right, as any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, to work somewhere, to serve, to earn, to create profits or to lose. That's definitely true. We must all be so honest. But if he was making profits or making big profits at a time when he wasn't employed there, but he was in a political position, and we know that he's been a long year since 1992, and now, of course, it's a reasonable suspicion of customerism. And that's true, too. You want to admit it or not. We have signed a parliamentary inquiry into the suspicion that the public function holder, Mr Gregor Golobič, has concealed taxes, unjustifiably acquired the status of a farmer and has failed to show the property to the competent authorities. Although I am not a lawyer, I know that such an act is suspected of a crime. And that, I would stress, should involve the competent authorities. But who are these bodies, who are the leaders, what are the connections from the past and the present, are, of course, other stories that we will not open today, because that is not the content. Where, of course, we can count, or each one’s own thoughts, who helps, when, why, who owes something to. Let's find out. Political responsibility to avoid paying taxes in Slovenia. This is what really hurts the Slovenian National Party, and I am the most personally. Some of the colleagues sitting in this hall sat with me yesterday at the National Assembly until half midnight almost or perhaps a minute less. And we were talking about the budget rebalancing because of the difficult financial situation and, above all, because of the high deficit in the revenue of the state budget. The highest share of the government budget's revenue shortfall is tax revenue. And if it is true, if it is true that someone has created and created profit or income and put it at the expense of a foreign bank, into a foreign country, it is a serious crime that requires criminal proceedings, not a parliamentary investigation. And such a man must first be taxed from the first day he, if he has done so, and imprisoned. And that's the end of the debate! Even if the appointed Mr Gregor Golobič had in the Netherlands accounts, and even if he paid taxes in the Netherlands, he should be ashamed - if, I say, "if" - that the Slovenian minister has been in Slovenian politics for 20 years and is paying taxes to foreign countries, not his own country, which will emplace and emplace him. If he is, shame on him! I like to watch movies and walk around like we do in the U.S. Court when comparisons are made. A month and a half ago, my lady wrote me a letter that exceeded the $1.87 subsidy price, and I have written it and I can prove it to you. She was punished for losing a subsidy of EUR 187. Due to the 1,87 euros overpriced, she was fined 200 euros a month. There are many people in the country of the Republic of Slovenia who are above the price of 1, 2 or 10 or 17 euros, because it doesn't matter, and they have to pay a fair tax. Even if he sells ten quarts of wood, he has to pay a tax to that country. If he sells one painting, if he sells one dress, if he sells one pair of socks, if he sells one cow, he has to pay the tax. People who were supposed to make millions of dollars and put them abroad to avoid paying taxes in their own country. I'm not a fan of American movies, I don't like America at all, I didn't go there and I won't go there, but here we should do as we did in America. Remember the gentleman who got, I don't know, 150 years of arrest, even though he's old sir, for tax evasion. We are talking about the investigation of suspicion and clientism and corruption for the acquisition of poorly secured loans granted by the New Ljubljana Bank in majority state ownership for a company in the Ultra Group. If there is any suspicion, it should be investigated. Not here to nail Mr. Gregor Golobic to the cross. Finally nailed to the Cross of the New Ljubljana Bank and all those who did, if they did, because this is a joke from the Slovenes and Slovenes. If Ultra is to be selected in 2008 on a public invitation to tender for the Municipality of Ljubljana, and if they hold that Ultra has offered 4.3 million euros for business, then another company called Fourth, one million less, I am sad or happy, like some colleagues, seven years of mayor and I know how the invitations go. Above all, you must look at the price, choose the one that is the cheapest and ensure that it meets all the requirements of the tender. Then there is a reasonable suspicion of cooperation between Mr Gregor Golobic and Mr Zoran Jankovic. And that's a fact. If that's true, I would never choose as mayor a company that offers me one or two million more expensive services than someone else, but would always take the one that's cheaper. I think there's a lot of colleagues here who can confirm that. Unless, unless and why a political parliamentary investigation, colleagues and colleagues? [[...]] Because Mr Gregor Golobič is Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's why. I say again, I'd rather have him called if they had a seat there, near City Park, to the police crime department, and presented him with suspicions of crime and demand evidence. I still say that for the Slovenian National Party, a person is innocent until proven guilty. But we demand that it be proven to him or that all suspicions be rejected. And this right now, and this today, and this is to keep it that way forever. And I will sign any request for an investigation that anyone in this Chamber will make, in return, to find all those who stole, even if they did not steal, who carried their profits and profits abroad, but rather pay taxes to foreigners rather than to the country in which they live, who even trust them. For all, they shall be members of SDS, SNS or any party, or SD or any other political options. We have €400 million in deficits in the budget for smaller taxes and, on the other hand, there are suspicious acts such as these. These are for me and for the Slovenian National Party, if the lowest actions can be proven which one can do, which this country trusts, which this country gives him power and which has chosen the people of this country. People in this country! I want and I hope, because I will be alone as a member of Parliament, of the National Assembly, even defiled, czech, because then all of you are crooks and thieves, I hope that we or the gentleman we are talking about will actually prove his innocence in this investigation. This will clear up the suspicion of criminal or criminal offences against everyone in the National Assembly and everyone in the Government. But if I don't, I'm ashamed of myself right now, and I'm going to be the first of the first to demand a severe punishment for such people who don't trust their own country, trust them, and pay taxes to others or even hide them. I'm not unhappiness to him, I'm letting him, when he wasn't in politics, he was working, he could have made him, I don't know, what kind of wealth. All right, let him have it and have him pay a fair tax. That's what hurts the most. And once again, we are co-signers, we are in favour of setting up a parliamentary inquiry, and publicly to all those who see and hear us, we say. We are ashamed, however, that if there are suspicions of crimes, they are not investigated by the authorities responsible. I'll ask myself what they're doing. And we can go from criminals, from internal affairs to justice, who want a permanent mandate, to higher wages, and I don't know what else. One and the other. Let them do their job. If they do it properly, like the police recently did, at the border, I'll be the first to sign it. The Slovenian national party requires an investigation and, of course, requires proof of innocence or guilt and also punishment. I hope it doesn't hold what I started with if you want to cover something up, cover it up and hide it, to set up a parliamentary commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party we find that politics in Slovenia unfortunately has an increasingly negative connotation. Slovenian citizens see politics primarily as a struggle for power, where the objectives justify resources which create a variety of clienteleistic links, primarily aimed at fulfilling their own interests. The ideals that led to the democratisation of the Slovenian space have long been diversified. The representation of the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens has long since become the secondary concern of the Slovenian political and economic elite. Ethicality, moral values based on the historical, cultural origins of our Central European space, have unfortunately become only a written letter on paper, which we use every so long for purely populist purposes. Is that right, or does it have to be true? In the Slovenian People's Party, we don't think so. Parliamentary democracy has evolved as a result of the idea of indirect exercise of power, that is, we are Members, citizens' and citizens' policy tools. And the practice of exploiting political power in its own interests is born. The above thinking has also led us to decide to sign a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobic. The operation of Slovenian policy must become transparent, highly ethical, fair and, above all, focused on the welfare of all Slovenian citizens and citizens. We are concerned about the fact that it is not such that a lie has suddenly become a value to activate the entire Slovenian political summit in the protection of a particular individual. At the same time, the Council of State adopted an amendment on the Law on State Administration, which transferred the competence to carry out tasks in the fields of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. With this change, Minister Gregor Golobič gained the power to draw up legislation on telecommunications and mail and to share the budget money for various projects in this area, on the fact that on the company's website owned by the said Minister, we follow the following self-representation: "Ultra is synonymous with advanced high technological solutions in the field of telecommunications without cash payments and the oil industry. With innovative systems for managing supply chains for oil companies, mobile satellite tracking and other advanced mobile solutions, it improves the efficiency of its customers and partners and provides them with the highest level of services." Ladies and gentlemen, we must all be the same before the marriage, whether it be Minister Gregor Golobič or Ambassador Jakob Presecnik, if you will. We therefore believe that it is right to carry out the said parliamentary inquiry and thus to confirm or reject all the suggestions and questions recorded therein. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be moved by Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Of course, at the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the request of a group of Members to determine a parliamentary inquiry into the suspicion of clientelism and the corruption of the holder of the public function of Minister Gregor Golobic. We will undermine the investigation because it meets all the required elements for the convening of the parliamentary investigative commission. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we respect the rules and regulations. However, I must say that we were, of course, surprised at the arguments we had recently heard from the proponents. I am convinced that with such a masterpiece, the authors of the best science fictional novels would also blush, which raise their load even with fictional stories. On the other hand, we are pleased that this Commission will allow Minister Globič to finally be able to respond publicly to the various allegations the target of which has been recently. In the LDS, we hope that the work of the investigative commission will take place quickly, smoothly, because we want Minister Golobič instead of the political frustrations of the opposition to deal with the important priorities of his ministry, which is an important member of Slovenia's journey to the knowledge society. These priorities, which have suffered a chronic lack of attention from both ministers in this area during the previous government period, are certainly! Promoting R & D activities in enterprises, promoting cooperation between companies and research institutions, promoting the patent activity of universities and institutes, promoting technological and development projects in small and medium-sized enterprises, revitalising the activities of the Slovenian Technology Agency and the Public Research Agency, important work, strengthening research activities at the university, intensifying the implementation of Bologna reform according to the legal framework, improving the quality and attractiveness of Slovenian higher education, establishing an appropriate system for ensuring the quality and evaluation of higher education institutions and protecting public interest in higher education. The biggest opposition party since the defeat continued in the elections is constantly evident by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also by the coalition to deal with itself instead of Slovenia. I think it is the right moment and the right opportunity for citizens and citizens to ask themselves who in today's debate is the one who puts political interests ahead of the interests of the entire Slovenian society. In today's debate, who is more important than the priority of Slovenian higher education? And who in today's debate is the one who falls to the test of such a sung national interest because it is withdrawn into the second plan at the expense of personal accounting with one of the important political competitors. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that today the opposition has fallen to the test of understanding and distinction between party and social interest. Otherwise, the attitude of the biggest opposition party to such or other Slovenian public exams has been known for some time. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the debate, the establishment of a commission and I am sure that we will come up with certain conclusions on the basis of which, of course, it is necessary to act decisively. If it turns out to be a lot of fog and smoke mixes, of course, those who do it for the obvious purpose will have to take responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u180	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The requirement to determine the parliamentary investigation, which identifies the political responsibility of the holder of the political function, is, of course, a desire for consideration, with which we would and will maintain working temperature in the Golobič case at an appropriate height. Following the decision not to use interpretation, the parliamentary tradition continues. Commissions shall be established which do not, as a rule, give the expected result. The reasons for such results are different. However, predictions about the establishment of investigative commissions have often aroused excessive expectations in the public. It is not our desire today to evaluate the work of the commission that is being set up today, which is also impossible. Not one and not the other. So neither did the last one. At least there is something about this request to be acknowledged, demanded by opposition Members, and targeted by the current government minister. A grateful theme for the opposition performances. At this stage, we cannot assess the claims made in the request, as this will be an opportunity during the duration of the parliamentary investigation. Let us be allowed to maintain our doubts until the evidence convinces us that this is a political responsibility that the proponents state. However, this will also be an opportunity for the Minister to reject the claim made by the signatories that there is a suspicion of clienteleism and the corruption of the public function holder. There will be an investigation and, as the trend shows, there will be more of these investigations. I hope that this will also enable us to have our basic mission, the quality of the adoption of good laws. Talking about whether the establishment of an investigative commission is supported or not is, of course, inappropriate. If the signatories comply with the requirements prescribed, the National Assembly shall establish an investigation committee. And so it is this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We're done. Mr. Tanko as a proponent? Here you go. [[...]] [[The microphone is not on.]] We are done with the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. [[...]] On behalf of the applicants, I would like to say the word, Mr Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, the investigative committee. If it fulfils the conditions, it shall be decided. I think that any debate by Members about what would be, what would be, what could be, even inappropriate. This is a requirement that meets the conditions and should therefore also be determined. The second thing I have to react to is these ongoing debates on the investigative commissions relating to weapons. It's actually a grateful topic, it comes every day, every time you have to blur things out and finish things. However, I would like to point out that the archive or the archives on these investigative commissions are on this subject in this house - the National Assembly, so that you can probably look at it. These investigative commissions were led by members of the coalition. The last time Mr Mogue was Prime Minister Drnovšek. It would be good for you to read the conclusions and conclusions and then also, as it was found there, to discuss. It makes absolutely no sense for you to discuss arms transactions in a way that does not have a basis and does not have confirmation in the findings of the commission of inquiry. If we are to pursue a serious policy, a serious debate should also be discussed on the basis of some facts and some arguments. That's what I think we should do. Some of you have also cited matters so that you should no longer check any suspicions that arise. We are obliged to verify the suspicions, if not verified by the authorities, we, our part, can verify the political suspicions, the political responsibility of those suspected to have been connected in various clientistic, corrupt, illegal acts. It's a duty. Not only those who have proposed or propose a certain commission of inquiry, but also those who have not signed these requests. That is why I have also said that it is expected from Members that they will participate in the investigative commission in a constructive, active manner, in line with expectations, not in a political way, and that they will also defend some other and non-democratic interests on the investigative commission and not in accordance with the lawfulness. The expectations are that we will work on a legal basis, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Investigative Commission in the Law of the Investigative Commission, that for the conduct of all those also laws that exist in specific areas. In fact, I must reject all those who wanted to say that this request for a commission of inquiry is some scheming, intriguing political act of the signatories we have tabled. It should be borne in mind that Members of certain parliamentary groups have made a request for an urgent meeting of the Commission to oversee the budget and other public finances, where we wanted to by means of an expert discussion and also with people who are actually experts, bankers, to verify whether the claims that credits are adequately secured, held or not. If you look at the record of that commission, if you look at the conclusions that have been adopted, then you will probably find that these professional confirmations on whether Ultra's credits have been adequately secured have not occurred. The bankers avoided these issues very much, despite the fact that it was already known that Ultra had invited them to disclose all the information on the insurance of these loans. That was the professional part. It is interesting that at about the same time it responded to this entire political summit, with the President of the Republic, with the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the former President of the Republic. Thus, on the one hand, we were unable to obtain relevant professional data from the banking institution which granted these loans and which was exempted from silence. On the other hand, we have experienced the response of the entire political summit, including the entire coalition, including the parties Zares, the Zares Group. We probably didn't invent this debate because we wanted some political debate or some political conflict. We decided that because we were not actually where the city was, we could not get the relevant data and confirmation, according to what appeared in the media. We couldn't make it. And that's probably one of the great problems of this society, this country and this democracy. The National Assembly, which has the budgetary and other public finances control committee, cannot provide some trivial data on whether certain loans are adequately secured, despite the fact that the company that received these loans has said that this can be disclosed. Otherwise, it would be much more elegant if the company did it on its own without asking anyone else. Some of you have also talked about some of the data on some projects. The municipality has concluded a business for a million more or has chosen a million more expensive bidders. However, it is necessary to know that this has happened or that this information is kept only at the time of the invitation to tender. Now after the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, this information is no longer valid. And this selected bidder must have had some experience in the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality. I'd like to take a look. Maybe that would suggest just checking, and I don't know if it's hygienic, that they're trying to try to get someone to move a company abroad, to look for the fact that the previous coalition was working against some company. That didn't happen. No one in the National Assembly pointed to this. No one has requested any discussion on this subject, not on the Commission for the supervision of the budget of public finances, nor on any other Commission. No urgent meeting was convened, even though you had all the supervisory commissions in your hands when you were in the opposition. Interestingly, however, the company was relocated to the Netherlands to have the name Ultra Sum, which in itself in Slovenian to make an allusion to something, reminds us of something. It is also interesting that the color of a political group is also orange, as is the color of the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posede will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of our parliamentary group has been very well argued by our leader, Zalokar Orazem. I would have had the same debate, and any minister, any party, would have been written in this request, because I would have protested against such a, I would have allowed myself to say, a low-level way of accounting, political accounting with a public function holder in a way that is not truly worthy of the biggest opposition party. The driving pursuit is used by the institution of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, Parliament and also by individual committees. This claim I hope to make on the basis of monitoring and listening, as reported by the media, is circulating, octopuses show. These are the means by which these requirements for the Commission of Inquiry are drawn up. This is also shown in the fact that a purely private person is mixed on Facebook, claiming that this was stated by an official. Really knowing the new technique! In order for this race to end or these suspicions to come to an end simply by filing an interpretation against such a minister, suspected of all that you have written down, but also by the statements of some of your members - I can also tell you who - this would be just a one-day event, only a media-interesting day or a few days at most. For such a committee you have an extended period of repeated lies, suspicions and this is certainly not good. When I say that not only this investigative commission is being used, I can argue that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, led by Ambassador Vizjak, was the tool of this particular race and the Commission's 5th urgent meeting for the supervision of public finances was called a little before the European elections with only one point, very important, the exposure of the New Ljubljana Bank or the adequacy of the credit insurance granted by Nova Ljubljanska Bank to Ultra, for 5 million euros, 5.9 million euros or for your anonymity 20 million euros. I think that 20 might have been left out of that number when the Drava power plants gave the Bell. Maybe there's 20 of them left. Despite the fact that the President of the Commission, Mr Vizjak, received the official document of the New Ljubljana Bank, which clearly states: "On the basis of your call, we inform you that the exposure to Ultra Group is 5.9 million. Investments shall be secured by coins, bonds, claims and mortgages." Very clear. Nevertheless, the President of the Commission gave an anonymity, which proved again 20 million, inadequately insured, that the former Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, had also been involved in the debate and expressed concern about the threat posed by public finances and the banking system. Interestingly, since 2005, when it was a 421 million loan balance for managers, it has grown to 639 million in 2006, 2007 to 1,400 million and 2008 to 1,657 million for managers' acquisitions. At that time neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance felt threatened by the banking system in order to attend at least the meetings of the Bank of Slovenia. I think he's been in the whole term once or twice. That is why I am protesting against such behaviour and the exploitation of this institute, which shows that many of the suspicions have been produced, we can view them as a lie. It's simple: because if it happens again and again, even a false case becomes the truth, I'm sorry. I will therefore say another case of regret. Today, there is no Mr Visiak how a word can be spoken, which is not the truth, even at a meeting of the Committee on the Economy, where we discussed the payment and conduct of the supervisors of the largest state bank. A specific question has been raised twice as to how we can imagine that supervisors will assess the administration and the President of the administration properly, professionally, if they pay around 200 million prizes. His quote is specifically: "I am not aware of this, nor of the Government, nor of myself, as Minister of Economy." There are conclusions of the Government and instructions for voting in the Assembly both for 2007, 2005 and 2006, where it was stated that yes should be voted on for almost 200 million awards. There is a connection between how someone can lie or how someone can speak the truth and therefore I protest against such a way of exploiting this institution, which, in the event that they believe in these suspicions that they also have evidence, is also responsible and necessary to report it to those and those institutions that are available for it in this country, but not that the entire mandate can be politically charged with the Minister, with the public person. I'm not speaking by name, but I'm talking about any kind of victim in a way that we know does not have a direct penalty. If these charges were recorded and the Minister was accused, they would probably be influenced or even impressed by false accusations. That way nothing will happen, insinuations will be repeated, suspicions will be repeated, a good name will be muddy, and in the end nothing will happen. That's why I think this kind of accounting is down and not appropriate. However, I am also convinced that every bad thing in life is good, otherwise it is probably very painful and someone will never be able to restore a good name, one that you have already destroyed with this pursuit. But it's good enough that these things can come on a day and probably some other. Thus, I myself agree with the position of the Group of Members, the investigation will be initiated and we will participate in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has been reported to the floor. He's not here. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u186	to clarify to all those who listen to us. We hope we know what we're talking about. I would like to say that there are Articles 110 and 113 of the Constitution. Article 110 says: "The Government shall be composed of the President and the Ministers. The Government and the Ministers shall be independent and accountable within the framework of their competence to the National Assembly." That's why the parliamentary investigation. 113. Article - "The Prime Minister and ministers shall declare an oath after election or after appointment before the National Assembly." That is why the parliamentary investigation, because we have a responsibility, not just the right, colleagues and colleagues, at least some of whom you are asking. Secondly, if I suddenly shut up and look up there, I'm sure the entire National Assembly, who is sitting here now, will look up there and I'll take the wallet out of Silvano's neighbor's pocket, for example. That's right. We are now listening if there is already some act of parliamentary investigation outside, what else should be done in the parliamentary investigation. Yes, I agree. But why didn't the one who said that we should do that, and that's what he did? Only one group, including the Slovenian National Party, did so this time. And that's not a bad thing, in hope and desire, I stress that the final truth is revealed. Besides, I was very careful, I still respect the principle of innocence, which is the supposed innocence, that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. But, look, I'm from places where Ultra's home too. And for the first time, logic, Ultra - Golobič - Secretary General of LDS - LDS - Connection! Okay, okay, they have the right to cooperate. There are times when some political option that has long been in power has fallen or lost, people have moved left, right, everyone has this right - Dove is disappearing in Ultra. And later comes the connection Ultra - Golobič - Really. I think it's clear to every child that it's a political connection. I think the kids would understand in the seventh, eighth grade that this is some kind of political connection between a person with a last name, between a company with a name and a political option. Thirdly, Mr Gregor Golobic himself publicly admitted that he had deceived the Slovenian public before the elections. What did he do if he declared ownership at the same time or co-ownership in a certain company? I don't understand. If I report a competent institution that I have a garden eye, I don't know why I would tell the public I don't have one. If I reported her there, someone was deceiving the public, which they also admitted, to achieve some political success. Okay, that's okay. People have made up their minds, and that's how it is. But the question that was decisive for me and my colleagues is this: even if you admit co-ownership, it means that people know and that all the competent institutions know that you are co-owner of a company with some property, and why the hell do you transfer that property to the Netherlands? That's an essential question. If you admit to being co-owner, if you admit to being there, then have this property in Slovenia, don't transfer it to the Netherlands. We all know if you confessed, okay? You're here, you've got an account here, and we know how much you've earned, and a dot. And we also know that when you are elected to the National Assembly or to the Government, everyone works in such a way that even if they had private businesses before, because by law you can't do anything with us then than just sit in Parliament or be in Government, they transfer these companies to their wives, their sons, whatever. We all know that. All right, let's, let's, let's at least, let's do it right. But why aren't we doing this transparently? Why hide? Why transfer to the Netherlands? Why fool the public? Isn't that reason enough that something's not right here? And if that's a clear enough reason - we're talking to a colleague I like to talk to because he's my neighbor, and he says, "Yeah, if you're saying there's a suspicion of a crime. Why did you not report this suspicion of a crime to the competent services? Why do you now say they should?" Yes, it is not clear enough that the competent services should immediately find that someone is co-owner of something that is a politician at the same time and at the same time kept an account on the Netherlands to smell something. I really don't know, well, are we really kids in here, or what? I got a call from the crime scene because someone in the community administration got two trucks of sand "travel" and someone reported them to him for free. And I've been to the Ljubljana Police Crime Department three times, because some employee of the municipal administration got two trucks of sand and someone reported him getting it for free. That's funny! I had to go to Ljubljana three times to see criminals. Three times! Here we have millions, which are not in the public eye, to the official institutions, the institutions are notified - of course Mr Golobič is a smart man, we must admit that, and the account is in the Netherlands. If it's not strong enough to keep something out here, then I don't know what they are. And now to wonder and throw sand, or to SDS or SNS, it doesn't matter, just to hide the other side. One more time: I'm gonna watch it for five minutes and everyone's gonna look up and I'm gonna do it. Let's be honest with each other. Things aren't clean. It's just that they've come to the public. If other things, and probably others, would come to the public, but also if they were by the opposition, the coalition would have the opportunity to request an act setting up a parliamentary inquiry. However, since the Government is obliged to report and has sworn to the National Assembly and because I think that the National Assembly is still the legislative branch of power in parliamentary democracy, which is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and I think that this first branch of power is the same among the others and we must be fairer, we have this right and therefore we demand it. And not stalling. I don't care. If I was till midnight last night, I'll be here by 3:00 in the morning. But not because we're throwing sand in each other's eyes, what's who and what's done. We all have this opportunity, and we all have the opportunity to order a parliamentary inquiry. Set it on the right side to the left, from my point of view. I'm clean. The notion of innocence, it is said, is sacred to me. All the indicators, the facts that speak, which I know personally, are clear: that there is something rotten here in the land of Shentfloryan and that is to be determined. But I say it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I have a feeling that we are very much discussing at this point, as we discussed at one point earlier. This time it is said about profaning a good name, maligning a public person, and this seems unacceptable. While this was happening at the previous point all the time. Of course, there were other public figures involved. As in the previous case - so when we were talking about touring, it is only right that this case be investigated. If anything is found to have been wrong or wrong, this public person, like all those dealt with in the preceding paragraph, must be equally responsible. In fact, the matter is very simple and the meter is just as long for everyone. How can you actually be so double-crossed? So, at the previous point, at home, hit him - in short, he has to be eliminated so that I don't say almost no. Here at this point, we are talking about a political attack. At both points, matters need to be dealt with equally, the same things investigated and then seen how things actually stand. I think that's the only thing right, right and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Liberal democracy has recorded one of the priorities in the programme that it advocates Slovenia as a legal state in the full sense of the word. I think that the behaviour of the Liberal Democracy over the past period is also a witness and a confirmation of this direction. We understand the rule of law in a broader context, and I would like to highlight just two moments. The first is that before marriage we are all the same, no one can be an exception to determine whether or not the conduct was in conformity with the law, regardless of the situation in society. And another very important fact is that we can't prove anyone's criminal behaviour in case he hasn't been proved it. So no one's guilty until proven guilty. I take the parliamentary commission of inquiry as a very important institution of Parliament for a simple reason, because the parliamentary commission should only be set up if there are indeed established grounds for the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry. I do not object to anyone who fulfils all the conditions and provides adequate material for the establishment of an investigative commission. But when we read the suspicions expressed by the proponents for this investigative committee on the responsibility of Mr Gregor Golobic, we must say that there are very strong doubts about the conduct of the said gentleman. So, it's a suspicion of corruption and it's a suspicion of clientelistic activity. I am sure that it is impossible to respond today, even in the debate, to the justification of all the suspicions expressed and, at the same time, it is not possible to respond with arguments to all the suspicions expressed, because only the investigative commission will be able to respond. But when we listen to the applicant today and read the explanation for the proposal itself to set up an investigative commission, I ask whether the applicants of the investigative commission could have done the type of work on which they today justify their request for an investigative commission when they had all the leverage to clear up these matters. I will return to the text of the explanatory memorandum, where on page 5 it is decided that in 2004 a number of questions concerning the operation of Ultra were raised by the Robbery Government and the questions related to the 10-year period they are talking and asking about how any funds were transferred, whether any funds were recovered or irrevocable if this happened, how much and when and whether any authority of the Government, ministry or company in the majority ownership of the country has concluded any contract with Ultra d.o.o. over the value of 5 million tolars, and if so, who, for which transactions and for what amounts, and how these transactions have been obtained. Robbery's government responded to all these dilemmas in the spring of 2005. Of course, those who ask the question do not agree with the answer or say that the data is misleading or wrong. But my question is this: this government has been replaced by the Janša government in the period 2000-2004 and the gentleman who has been asking questions in the spring of 2004 has become a finance minister - four years of the new government. And of course the question is - and today also by the first-signature it was said that there was no way to access the data. I wonder how institutions or governments work to ensure that a government in which a financial minister has remained suspected that there are certain irregularities in 2004 does not detect these irregularities when it has all the institutions in place to provide a number of answers, which it also sets out within this justification and an explanation for the commission of inquiry, which it would be fair and correct for those things that are on the table and expressed suspicion to be clarified when it is necessary or immediately. So it's impossible to agree that we've been living with an unannounced for four years, and we could get these answers. And if the government did not then provide the answers, as the Commission's proponents put it, why, in the time of the Janša government, the ministers to which the question was raised at the time, did not establish the credibility of the replies that the previous government, that is to say, was then the government of Rop. And I say this at the principle level, at the general level, because such a story should not be repeated at any time, because it is the credibility of this Parliament, it is the credibility of this government, that is, any government and any session of this Parliament, in order to create trust in people. For it is impossible to have so many expressed suspicions before you, and to expect on the other hand, that confidence will be fully established in the government and in the minister who has on so many sides the suspicions of improper conduct. This is, I think, a lesson for all of us, and for all governments and for all parliaments, how to act and how to take a responsible approach to the establishment of investigative commissions. I don't want this place to be more than just to investigate the suspicions. I want to come to a correct conclusion and that the sequences are drawn on both sides depending on the results of this investigation. He would only return to the period of the previous government, and investigative commissions are usually a working method or an institution of opposition Members. And if we have been so committed in principle to investigating circumstances that the opposition at some point cannot achieve otherwise than by setting up an investigative commission, I wonder about the principle of today's applicants. When we in the then opposition asked, in the previous term, whether everything was right about Mercator's sale, it was to the left and right that the opposition at the time was not able to set up this commission, but we set up a commission that took over the investigation of the sale of Kad's capital shares and the Court of Commerce in the following order and there is a record of order on the right or the wrong side. This means that if we really want to correct the attitude of parliamentary investigative commissions to the public, which expects these investigative commissions to come to an epilogue, then we need to be objective and correct towards all the establishment of these investigative commissions, which must always have the same omen and the same objective: to find out whether there are any suspicions or whether the suspicions are proven or whether the suspicions are being rejected. This also seems very important to me when we set up this commission of inquiry, which I find very difficult to estimate as to the suspicions raised. Today we have also been able to hear in a presentation by one of the views of the groups of Members that there is a type of response and clarification to the arguments cited by the motioners of this commission of inquiry. I never have a dilemma to clear up the clear conduct of all political function holders, and I myself have no dilemma as to when now the media are also asking us about what our assets are and how much our assets are; for a simple reason, because I think, despite having fulfilled all the legal obligations, it is also correct to inform the public of this, if it is somehow expected of me. Of course, I do not resent any of those who have fulfilled all the legal obligations in order not to follow that action. This is the answer for each of us, but it also means the attitude towards the one who is addressing certain questions to us. I would like this investigative commission to act quickly, effectively, in the interests of the open issues that await us not only in the context of the economic and financial crisis, but also for a quick and clear response to all these suspicions, so that we can build a research space in this government, a link between the economy and science, so that we can strengthen the university space and thus contribute to a very strong competitive response from the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian education system, science and universities, the institutions in the common European and global space. Therefore, I also expect the responsibility of all those who will participate in this committee to be such that the desire for the truth to respond to all these suspicions will, of course, be such that this Commission will also end its work very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has been announced for the debate. He's not here. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. This investigator is also a fact and must be accepted as it is. However, given that there is a new suspicion of corruption in government groups, this investigator could even be expanded. Of course, then the address would be appropriate longer. I am truly sorry that we have to deal with these cases today, with this investigative committee. I would have preferred if Mr Gregor Golobič had stepped down, because in the long term he would have done Slovenian politics and the Slovenian country a great service and a great benefit. Thus, if I can paraphrase Socrates, he prefers to live comfortably in lies and enjoys power rather than to retreat because of shame and disregard for moral standards. Regrettably, the lie with this case was given the domestic right in the Slovenian political space. In the past, we have heard some left - handed preachers try to justify this lie, but the oral lie is a lie and it has always been, and it has always been. And, of course, we cannot help but overlook the fact that Borut Pahor’s new political paradigm has become a lie or a lie. In this case, too, we could recall the Watergate affair. Remember, at that time, the American public, the American profession, was very much involved in the question of how far they ranged from the privileges of some top politicians in the country, in a particular case of the president of the country. The President of the United States of America, however, is the executive branch. They did what the President of the country could and could not do. The Watergate Epilogue is well known; President Nixon then also gave up for lying. What about us? Of course, our political culture is far from in the past. The lie is rewarded in the Slovenian political space, but not punished. Or we could say otherwise: the moral level of this government, this ruling structure, is obviously so low that we cannot expect a minister to give up because of such eccentric lies. And if the top politicians, in the way that it was in the case of Gregor Golobič, advertise the lie that this is something normal, something completely acceptable, then of course this country is not well written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik has been reported. He's not here. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u194	Respected and respected. There's no dilemma in front of us. This Commission of Inquiry will be established in view of the fact that the group of applicants so requested. This is provided for in Article 93 of the Constitution and it does not really matter whether the National Assembly is in favour or against whether I am against or for myself personally. This is in line with our common agreed rules and I think it is important to allow the opposition to take the initiative to investigate those processes for which it considers itself. So those processes that must be the subject of a parliamentary lookout. This right is guaranteed to the opposition or at least thirty-three Members of the Slovenian Constitution, even if the parliamentary investigation is only a tool of political struggle and not a search for truth. Today I will not defend or accuse in this place; neither for one thing nor for the other, I do not have enough information on this matter, but even less evidence. But what I think is next. Mr Gregor Golobič certainly enjoyed a serious political slip-up: a mistake, a lie - whatever you want. In this important part, he stated to those who have long believed that since then the centre of clientism and corruption in Slovenian politics, while this parliamentary investigation has given him the opportunity to respond to very serious and clear allegations in this tense atmosphere, which this parliamentary investigation will undoubtedly further warm up. I would most like to see these accusations subject to proper prosecution by the judicial authorities, which I believe are not, in my opinion, to devalue constitutionally defined parliamentary investigations, the only ones qualified for an objective and independent examination of such issues. Also because, in this case, he has been charged with investigating and judicial authorities - let us not forget that the same practice is also subject to a parliamentary investigation - an important constitutional guarantee right, and this is a presumption of innocence. This is also explicitly laid down in the Constitution by stipulating that the parliamentary investigation in matters of inquiry and examination has the same powers as the judicial authorities. As my colleague Germitch said, no one's guilty until proven guilty. Gregor Golobič has already paid an important price for his actions. In an important part, he has experienced and developed confidence in the public and let us not forget that we are working as politicians for this confidence in the public. That's what determines our value, that's what we're looking at, whether we're capable of working for the common good or not. I would therefore like Slovenian policy to be able to learn, instead of sharpening this political fight, from this case and from these investigative ambitions, that in politics this trust is the most important, that this trust in politics is the largest capital and, at the same time, the greatest responsibility. That is why I do not have any reservations about all the officials making their assets public, and I am sure that if we knew such cases to deal with sober and without ambition to "burn someone on the pile" it would only make Slovenian politics better and wiser. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has entered the floor. He's gone. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor. He's gone. Mag. Grimes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Of course, I will say, a lot of words have already been said in this Chamber today that do not fit the facts. I'll take my turn. I think that's what I'm gonna do. Mrs Orzmova has already pointed at the start to some of the alleged major errors that should have been made during our term of office. Among other things, she mentioned the extremely questionable concealment of property, the concealment of that construction of the interior ministry, as if Minister Mate would not hand over this part of business to Minister Kresalov at the time of the handover. So nothing was hidden. And most of all, it's a handy arms affair. It's the most convenient. Yesterday on our committee, today in the National Assembly, we are reopening the topic with some affairs, unlike the arms affair, as if we would not want to say clearly and loudly, "I suspect and accuse Janez Janša". But this problem has already been dealt with by several commissions. I don't know, three or four. The coalition, the left-centre coalition opens whenever it pleases her. It will probably be in this mandate, at least that's how it will be expected. However, we could have found something, after four investigative commissions, but not just reopen the subject. Of course, it was also quite unusual to claim that the government of Janez Janša had signed a contract with Macro 5 in the matter of the University of the Sea, which your government then resolved. No, it's not! The truth is completely different. The Rector has overstepped an investment that the previous government has never approved. This has to do with Mrs Orzam's speech. So you don't feel like it, please, because I'm not talking to you. I'm telling you, our university in Primorska. And when she overstepped these funds, and when the previous government made it clear that she would not cover it because she illegally exceeded these funds, a left - centred government appeared, covering the debt of its former colleague Chopova. That's the whole story, not fooling around what the Yanshe government has done. However, there is something else to say, not only what was said about the suspicions cited in this investigation, but also at a time when the coalition already knew about all these suspicions, when the coalition already knew about the lies and the concealment of the property in Ultra, it was easy, with all the help of the two SD Members, to transfer Mail and Telecommunications to the Ministry of Higher Education. To the Ministry of Higher Education! And made a unique arrangement that Europe does not know. If Minister Golobič were Minister of Agriculture, you'd probably have transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture because that's what you decided. Your Members, I summarise their words, have said that supervision, money and money-sharing cannot be judged by one minister. But these two MPs, by Mrs Orzmova's side, were on the committee in front of the cameras, and they were targeted at the baboline. That's the truth. But there's one more thing to say. Someone also talked about that the previous government - "with carjolas" said - was driving money from somewhere, probably from the budget, as if this MP was not a member of that coalition and that government. He was ashamed, so he was probably ashamed to participate in that government too - or what does it look like? Or he forgot what he was doing four years ago and what coalition he was in. However, it is significant, you know, the attitude towards property, the attitude towards property in relation to parliamentary status is a very important matter, at least for my terms. People who elect us have every right to know who they elect, especially to know what property this person has. This seems to me to be an elementary information and not to hide for any decision of the Constitutional Court or for the opinion of an information officer - I will have to be very careful not to say the name because I could step in and take action against me - that it is necessary to report or that voters should be interested only in what is in the time of the mandate and not what is ahead of the mandate. That's very difficult. If we don't tell what we have at the time of our term of office, neither will the electorate, if you want, control it. But it is a distinctive letter from a lady from Rogaška Slatina - she would probably allow me to say her name and last name, and I will not, in the light of the situation we are in - who has just written to me, resent this debate, and says, "Five million euros can't be earned by anyone with a decent job." I would add that there are individual groups of people who can even be treated with privileged status. Among them, say, bankruptcy managers, if you want, which we also talked about yesterday or we'll talk about tomorrow. However, the relationship between coalition members and property, property and property, is significant. A reporter asked us all in this room a few days ago, send me the property information. As far as I can see, after his earlier call, this party of Members, including the Slovenian People's Party, fully responded to him. As far as you, ladies and gentlemen are concerned, there are 29 answers missing. If we're honest, there's nothing to hide, then let's say it! Mrs. Pecanova, don't get upset. Tell the press if you have anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u197	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Franz Bogovich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Melita Zupevc is away. Mr. Franz Jursha. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, this initiative to set up this commission of inquiry is also more than justifiable and I am one of the co-signatory for this request. Today, however, in the debate again, mainly by the coalition Members, especially by Zareza, which is not understandable to me, the power to detect some unfounded accusations, particularly those of us opposition Members, that we are charging with these evidences or grounds and that we are actually referring to someone before he was proven guilty as if this matter had been done. That's not true! For if you read, we have stated in all our demands that there is a suspicion of this and that there is a political responsibility for individual facts or what we think was wrong or even corrupt in the work of both Ultra and Mr Golobič in the past. It was just the opposite of thinking back a little, the month of September before the elections, when the Patrio affair broke out. And there it was, and now everyone in public knows that, very well directed. And directly accusing the Prime Minister and some of those, as if that had actually happened. Today, I think it is also in our media to note that the District Attorney's Office has filed a complaint against this journalist from Finland, who co-sponsored this contribution, because his accusations, which were made at the time, have not been proved in any way. In this way, we can compare the justification of this commission of inquiry with the things you carried out last year, as well as when the Commission of Inquiry on the subject of Patrie was established in the previous term. Today, it was said by a coalition discusser that clarifications were provided on the budget and public finances monitoring committee by representatives of the Bank of Slovenia on the appropriate insurance of Ultra, which received 20 million euro of credit after reporting to the media. I was alone at this board meeting, and I can tell you that there were no explanations. The representatives of the Bank of Slovenia avoided and did not give a concrete answer, even though they should. Here, too, it is more than justifiable for me to try and get this, I think, extremely important information. The fact that the mortgage was one of the ways of insurance seems ridiculous to me, especially if we find out what that company would be worth. If Mr Golobič's share is EUR 2,500 and that company is EUR 35,000, if even the mortgage company is EUR 20 million credit, I think this is ridiculous. Here in our explanation we have written a number of clues indicating that there was a lot of illegal, a lot of corrupt, customerism. I am sure that this investigation will show that these indications can also be evidence that will help our own, I hope, independent investigative authorities, and that they will be able to press charges on this basis and that this will also come to trial. I believe this for another reason, because I was employed until 2003 in Telekom Slovenije. My role in this company at the time was such that I was able to monitor very well, as well as to judge the company's many business decisions, first Mail Slovenia, then Telekom Slovenije, and also both companies. And I can say that there were so many illogicalities, so many decisions in economic logic and technological logic that I soon became aware of why such decisions were made. Mr Gregor Golobič stood behind all decisions, respected colleagues and colleagues. That's what business executives said. That's what the leaders said. Without his approval of individual projects, nothing could be done. Telekom Slovenije has always been one of the key companies where the hunters of Minister Golobič have reached and returned to the hunt. I will not now discuss all those companies that have been associated with this, from the follow-up devices, Post Slovenia, but also a number of state-owned companies, which can also be read in the explanation that we have attached to the request for the establishment of this commission. Now they're also road pumps. Here, too, I have such a lot of documentation in the local environment, where it can be seen that really, with its players in the local environment as well as in state institutions, these hunters are still spreading to the areas of petrol pumps. But I believe others will talk about it. I therefore think that the functioning of this commission of inquiry can help clarify the many dilemmas that are in the public eye and that they will also be rejected as if some injustice has been committed by the media. I do not think it was possible for the media to report much more if the editors allowed the press to publish what they were investigating, especially if the journalists had hoped to write down what they had been able to find out. I hope this will come in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm going to steal very little time from you and start off with a nice greeting for my coworkers and coworkers. We will have an investigative commission, despite the fact that in my opinion this is an abuse of the functions of the investigative commission. I think the signatories made a mistake and sent the paperwork to the wrong address. If there is documentation with some more or less clear evidence, given what is being presented, there should be something, because some of the material we have received, I have also read it, it would be most reasonable that this documentation should go to the prosecution in the form of an accusation, not to abuse the function of the investigative commission to investigate one person with the average knowledge of a Member or Member, who is certainly less than the knowledge of the investigating prosecutor, the investigating judge or the criminalist. I think we should work to better appreciate the importance of investigative commissions. In the past mandate, there was a mistake when the opposition proposed a certain investigation, another investigative commission was proposed only to confuse the whole case with fog. I must say that I am pleased that this time the parliamentary majority has not decided on the same measure. For example, in a political way, as was the case in the previous term, a proposal could be made for an investigative commission on the role of Janez Janša in the corruption of bicycle purchases 8 times 8 Patria. Then another third would make a proposal on the corruption of the X Member in the X case, for example, Mr Friend in the sale of land in Sežana. And so on. This is probably not the right way, so we have not decided on it either, because we respect the role and importance of the commission of inquiry. I will conclude by inviting you, your colleagues and your colleagues to take this investigative committee seriously, however, that if you do come up with any data that might indicate a dispute, that you will use them properly, that you will not hide them, so that you may come out before the elections, but that you will act immediately in respect of the rule of law. And let me say something else: if the elements that will point to such controversy, as a member of the coalition, who pressed the "yes" button in support of the minister, I will, of course, be the first to be most critical of such an event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. The motioner speaks of the justified suspicion of the irregularity of Minister Gregor Golobič. Dear colleagues, at this point, I think it is only your wish that Mr Golobič be removed from politics because he is disturbing because he is too good for you and for someone else. Many audits were carried out in Ultra at the time of the Janša government. None of them showed any irregularities. You started with 21 million unsecured loans, continued with 5.9 million unsecured loans, today we're at 5.9 million poorly secured loans. And all this time, we are witnessing manipulation when we want to make the impression that Mr. Golobič is a tycoon, like the tycoons who took advantage of social property. He's got 10.8% in a private firm. And Mr Gorenak, unfortunately, is not here right now, said how well they report all the data to the media. At a time when Gregor Golobič did not provide information on all his assets to one of the media and forwarded them to the anti-corruption commission and to the tax office, at the same time Mr Tanko and also Mr Cujat felt that it was sufficient for the assets to be communicated to the anti-corruption commission and to the magazine Manager not to be communicated. Not even Zvonko Černač, Branko Grims, Jožef Jerovšek and twenty other SDS members communicated their assets. At that time, today’s political situation was different, and it is more worth reporting on its assets. As I have already said, with various manipulations you want to create the impression that Gregor Golobič is similar to Shroth, Bavčar, you rely on various articles, wave with various papers as at a meeting a month ago Mr. Bezjak, when he was at a tolling conference organised by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, where representatives of the Party Zares also participated, also here saw Ultra. And as proof that Ultra stands for everything, he showed me the invitation of the Chamber of Commerce to this consultation, there is nothing more than an invitation. And as a matter of interest, at this meeting was Vice-President of the party really Peter Česnik, who was talking about truck tolling, which is not really compatible with what Ultra offers. He supported something that Ultra didn't use. It is not surprising, however, that when the word electronic tolling is applied, you should upset the SDS, as it is known that this business was intended for the company Login, where the co-owner is also a friend of former Prime Minister Peter Verbič. He was a member of SDS Šteba at the time and it is not surprising that you were disturbed by the offer of Telargo, where he is also Ultra co-owner. And how easy it is to give information, manipulate the public, says only the following case. In Ljubljana, Jankovic chose Ultra with an Urban Card, even though it was a million more expensive. Why don't you just say the sequel to all this? The competition firm did not offer everything that was to be offered. The offer was out of hardware, and it cost a million dollars more. Following the repeated invitation to tender, when both companies offered everything they needed, Ultra was 25% cheaper. And that's why she was chosen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor as a motion for a request.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the lie or concealment of Gregor Golobic's data, which the media have so called about, for which you accuse Members of our Group, is not the only lie. If you look at today's report on the STA, it says - and this is the statement by Gregor Golobič at 17.36 - that most of this debate on the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry is intended for the applicants of the investigation and it is not possible for him to answer or be directly involved in the debate. This is the news of the Slovenian Press Agency, apparently summarised after a press release or after the response of the President of the Party Zares. When we have considered the announcement of time for this meeting of the National Assembly, two Commissions of Inquiry are, under points 21 and 22, where it is granted or given the opportunity for the Government to announce the time for the opening presentation and for the discussion when there is no proposal for a case. The government in this case - probably even the client of Really Government could have warned of this - did not decide to announce the time. And Mr Golobic was not prevented from taking part in this debate today, but the Government has, perhaps consciously, decided not to take part in this debate. [[The ad in the hall.]] Look, the government could decide to make an announcement. And the government always determines who represents her at the meetings of the National Assembly. [[Objection in the hall.]] I don't have to jump into words. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u205	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u206	Please check the form sent by the President of the National Assembly to all parliamentary groups and to the Government. The government on this form has deliberately failed to fill out those columns in both investigative commissions where time could be announced. This would make it possible for the Government at this meeting to discuss, at this point and also at the previous point. And if the Government would probably order Mr Golobic to participate in this item on behalf of the Government, then Mr Golobič could discuss it here as a representative of the Government. I think it is very irresponsible that the consciences as reported today through the Slovenian Press Agency, which have no basis in the documents received by the leaders of the parliamentary groups and also by the Government for the announcement of the time to all the points that are at this meeting of the National Assembly, are being made public. However, as regards certain other statements concerning investigative commissions in the previous term. I don't think it's necessary to waste a lot of time. The Mercator Commission of Inquiry was established solely because we have been Members of the Coalition of Mr Cwickl, who led the Commission on Budgetary Control, repeatedly called on the Commission not to abuse the Commission for budgetary control for the purposes of the Commission of Inquiry for God's will. This took a month until the members of the coalition parliamentary groups collected their signatures and submitted their request. And only a month or so after that decision, after this application for an investigative commission, members of the opposition parliamentary groups decided to submit a similar request for an investigative commission. Look at the dates. You have everything written down in Lotus Notes and all the things I've said stand. As for Patria, I, Mr Juri, would know what his father was doing in the previous term. He was among those who signed the case - a request for a parliamentary inquiry in the case of Patrio. I could have known. And Mr Anderlič was also present when we made some proposals in the coalition at the time to extend this Commission of Inquiry to some other projects from the TRPs, and Mr Anderlič and Mr Juri, who negotiated, did not agree to this, so we had two investigative commissions in the previous term. And since Mr Cwickl was invited to this investigative commission as a witness, you did not want to appoint another representative or chairman of the investigative commission, an investigative commission that investigated eight-wheelers11, but could not finish the work properly. I am inclined to do so, as I have also said in the opening presentation, that the Commission of Inquiry, which will investigate the acts referred to in the request for parliamentary inquiry, would act correctly so that all Members, the coalition and opposition members of the Commission would cooperate constructively on the basis of acts, on the basis of laws, on the basis of rules of procedure and that they would properly investigate those acts which have been made manifest here. None of these actions can be imposed on the Slovenian Democratic Party, as some Members have said in their debates on a permanent basis. The list of loans granted to Ultra was requested by the former director of the New Ljubljana Bank, Dr. Veselinović. As this document came to the public, it is likely that those at the Ljubljana Bank know, probably the commission that identified this has already come to some conclusions and conclusions. And I hope you'll let the public know whether this information is being held or not. It would also be possible to explain the debate on whether these loans are secured, secured or adequately secured to the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. And there, the bank representatives didn't want to say anything about it. And for all these stories brought by the media, it is not possible to accuse Members of our parliamentary group and not any other signatories of the request to order a parliamentary inquiry. The parliamentary investigation is merely a consequence of the fact that we did not get professional answers where we requested, and on the other hand, they unqualifiedly put themselves in the protection of Minister Gregor Golobic, President of the Republic of Dr Türk, President of the National Assembly, Dr Pavel Gantar, all his parliamentary group, the coalition on Brdo, the President of the Government and also the former President of the Republic. Interesting, unprovoked. And in fact, because we have not received the expert answers, there is no other choice but to make a proposal for an investigative commission. And this commission, which has considerable powers, is likely to come up with data that we have not been able to reach in the working bodies of the National Assembly, despite having a function assigned to it, in business and under any other act. If these allegations were rejected or denied on the working bodies where this would be proposed, and not once, repeatedly, I say there probably would be no reason to discuss today the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, the suspicions and reasons for it. It probably wouldn't be because these things would be explained in a timely and appropriate manner. However, with such lies as was published today at the Slovenian Press Agency, when the government, despite the fact that it received the form and did not announce the time, you can also find that you have matters in Lotus Notees, that in some past cases the government announced the time when the inquiry committee was ordered, because it was not a candidate of the point, then this tells a lot about the level, level and quality of communication between the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the Pahorje Coalition and between members of the National Assembly, who have a supervisory function over the work of the Executive. Indeed, the division of power is made independent of one another, but in one area it performs the work of the supervisory authority over the executive branch of the National Assembly and in some other areas the judicial and other branches of authority. That's right. However, in this part where this oversight part of the National Assembly belongs, there were no appropriate answers in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In order to bring the debate as we have led it to the end, I propose that we just take it together to know that all the Presidents are in front of me and that I will also allow these points to talk about problems in a way that any speaker thinks. But personally, I can tell you that I do not agree deeply in this way, and I firmly believe that today's full debate on both points is contrary to the logic of the decision that we are making today. If a minority investigation is initiated and cannot be decided on, but is introduced, then today we should only discuss the proposal for the introduction and possible opposition to the content of the request. Everything else we do today is contrary to the rules of procedure. It's the only way we've ever done this before. And if I objected to it, I would only have a problem with you, which is why I didn't do it, and I'm going to lead the session by taking it all to the end, because it's the easiest way. I think it would be good for us to agree on something else once, because then the parliamentary inquiry was initiated at the plenary session of the National Assembly before it was even introduced and before the Commission was formed. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved! This investigative committee may be something I've been thinking about. We all know that with the answer to a direct journalistic question, Minister Gregor Golobič was lying because of his own interest. Whether by doing so he has acquired property or only social prestige, whether it has damaged the budget or not, is less important. The decision is motive: own benefit. Otherwise, it would have been a hypothetical lie to deter a terrorist from the intended bombing of a shopping centre. His lie, like a lie about the own benefit of any policy or other public person, must be dealt with in the light of the fact that his institution co-forms the ethical system of society. If we know that the comprehensive economic crisis is mainly a consequence of the moral crisis, we know that, because of the breakdown of universal values, individuals with higher ethical principles are plunged into depression and do not want to give birth to young people without an ethical compass and do not know how to go through life, with honesty or deception, with education and hard work or with abuse and crime, when disappointed looking for emergency exits in alcohol, drugs, various forms of depravity, when we know it all, we find out: The last moment is for a new practice. We must not allow reality to be shaped by individuals who are willing to lie for their own benefit. I know that cases like this have been worse before, maybe worse. The case of Minister Golobič is only a matter of fact, since he is the first such case of a member of the Government since I have had the opportunity to discuss it in the National Assembly. If anyone in my camp is lying tomorrow, I'm gonna ask the same question because it's Slovenia. I therefore support the commissions which will restore the reputation of Slovenian politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Many words were spoken that do not fit the facts, said Dr. Gorenak in the debate today, and this is one of the things that we probably agree with many, by explaining things differently, of course. It is strange to me that I have to listen once again to things that have already been explained and denied, about ownership, about the transfer of Post and Telekom from one ministry to another. A hundred times it has already been explained that the economic work, the management part remains at the Ministry of the Economy and the regulatory part moves to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. But it is obvious that some in this House sit on their ears or hear only what they want to hear, which corresponds to their truth. I also agree with those assessments that have said that lies are becoming valuable in this political space. I add that the inventions are becoming facts. Well, according to old practice, if we repeat the lie long enough, it will become the truth, which Dr. Goebbels publicly said decades ago. That is why I hope that, for example, colleague Friday, when he was a journalist, he was checking the facts more closely than he is checking them now that he is a politician. Otherwise, it would be difficult for him to sign himself under such a proposal as was the case here. Because with all the evidence that's already been put on the table, apparently some people don't believe it. And that seems problematic to me. Mr Tanko also said in the case of the Urban Card, which colleague Kek had already explained, that, of course, it would also be possible to take a good look at the MOL's balance sheet or to see if these funds might have increased. Yes, if so, if we do not believe the data provided by Nova Ljubljanska banka or Ultra itself or by the Government of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court, the Information Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Commission. We will soon run out of institutions in this country that SDS Members will even trust, except for their own website, and some customer newsletters. If we're looking at things like this, we should probably also check out the trips of Ljubljana City Councillor SDS, Mr Sušnik, President of the Board of Supervisors of Toplarna Ljubljana, Indonesia, and his role and ownership of Felonica. From fiction to facts, it's a very long way to go. And the one we're walking on here, I'm not sure it's the right one. Maybe he explained a few things about how things work in the Netherlands. I've got family connections there myself, maybe you'll find a business, but there's not much I can do to help. There's a 25% profit tax in the Netherlands, not 21%, just like us. So someone would be a very bad master if he wanted to move things from this title to the Netherlands. In this particular case, however, things are that the company did not have profits and did not pay taxes because of nothing tax is still nothing, but if you count 21 or 25%. But these are all facts that one ear is deaf because it doesn't want to hear them. The same applies to indirect ownership. If Mr Golobič is the indirect owner of any other company, it must be difficult to tell him. Even small Mercator shareholders don't know what their bosses have done, let's say, years ago, in the presence of the then Prime Minister of the Government and whose companies they are still partial owners besides Mercator, who they know about because they have his shares. One set of things that this parliamentary inquiry wants to make true are, of course, on very small grounds, if at all. I would like the applicants themselves to take this parliamentary investigation seriously and know that they are investigating a natural person, not a government, so of course the government cannot announce its time here and defend itself because it is one unique, first such case that we have. I understand, however, that this is an opportunity where we would like to show that we want to explore serious, important things, just to fight corruption, as someone else is probably trying to show. And if that were the case, then Mr Grill would have long ago, since 2003 or how much he himself has directed, he should have shown some evidence of all that he has said here with such ease, and this has not happened. I suppose there's also some obligation to report if he knows that a crime has taken place, and unfortunately that's not happening here. However, if we really want to prove ourselves in this area of the fight against corruption, there could be another area that you know better and you were involved with it - in the case of Drava power plants and 20 million loans to Zvon 1 Holding, which was immediately further directed by Julius, who you know is controlled by the family. This fund was then purchased by Petrol, at the same time as Istrabenz and Perspektiva Stock Exchange, where former Minister Vizjak and current Member have 4033 mutual fund points. In this way Petrol had to fight back to buy the shares of Istrabenz, which now have a negative balance sheet, and you can figure out for yourself what damage might have come here. A lot of these things need to be explored. Perhaps it is also necessary to explore the role of the construction company Imos-lit, which, years ago, when Minister Janša was building the defence ministry, I would now like to build an internal ministry. This is obviously not going to happen now, but Mr Janša was buying his apartment from the same company in the meantime. The English proverb says, "People and glass houses, should've throw stones." For Mr Marinič and all those who are foreign to you are less familiar: "People who live in glass houses should not throw stones." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday. I didn't detect it. Just let me explain. Tell me. He named you? Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. I have not talked about any companies of Mr Golobic, not in Slovenia or abroad. I've been talking about lies, lies in politics, morals and values. Mr. Golobic himself said he was telling the truth. A consciously unspoken lie is, of course, a lie. And Mr Rozej, please don't work from this Parliament TV Good day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag's been reported. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Tanko, on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I reiterate that on 6 July, the leaders of the parliamentary groups received a form, including the Government, to announce the time for this meeting of the National Assembly. Under points 21 and 22 there are parliamentary investigations and there is also a column where the Government can announce the time for the introductory presentation and also for the debate. The government has not announced time for these two investigative committees. That is why what Mr Golobič said and published on the STA page is a lie. No one prevented him from discussing it, no one prevented him from answering the debate in this work, no one prevented him from participating here. It's either contractual or it's a decision. The government of time has not announced and has conscientiously renounced the debate. And it doesn't make sense that on such obvious matters that come from the documents of the National Assembly, someone says that it's not true that it's not possible. That's a lie. Even those who say the government can't announce time, don't tell the truth. It's a pattern. The government has not announced anything and has conscientiously renounced the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you. I will not comment, but I would be grateful if we would stop discussing what they are publishing in the media, because this is really not a topic for discussion at the National Assembly. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u216	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, the virus is lying from the president of the party. Indeed, it is spreading to all its Members. They have become quite infected. This is also evident in today's debate. For this reason, allow me to replicate first, because I did not have this opportunity before, Ambassador Kek, who falsely repeated what his party secretary once said a while ago, Mr Biščak, that we did not report the individual SDS members to the Kosovo Property Commission. That's a lie. All members of the SDS have reported the assets to the Kosovo Commission. If we had not done so, we would have been published on the website of this Commission. I'm sure you know that. You've been a Member for so long. That's where you weren't published. But it would be interesting to look into where such information came from, who triggered it, who placed it, and why it does it. This statement also points to the nature of the Zares Group, where they do not realize that the irresistibility of a policy when it was lost cannot be repaid by accusing other political groups or political competitors. Another time. All members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have made their property publicly available and you can see it on the website of the Slovenian Democratic Party. When your President Gregor Golobič does so and explains how he has reached a few million euros, and when he throws these papers on the table, then you will have the moral right to discuss us and until then shut up about it. On this issue, we are talking again about the usefulness or necessity of such and similar discussions, at least as far as the Commission of Inquiry is concerned, this issue is once again emerging. Even after Gregor Golobič, the president of the party Zares and the minister, had violated the principles that he had proclaimed before the national elections last year, apparently he had not believed them at that time, and after having been exposed to the public, he repeatedly, not once, deceived the public and lied about many important questions, after not giving clear answers about his assets and the ownership of postal collectors in tax havens, when he did not give a clear answer to the simple question of how the minister of the Slovenian government would hide his multimillion-dollar assets in euros abroad and after not explaining how he had done his modest payment to the public a few days before the elections last year, he would have done it to the Greek government, he would have done it to his only logical move, which would have been to relieve the electricity platform, which he would probably have made in question to the public a few days before the elections. If I am honest and if I go outside my client framework, I must say that this is bad for the whole of Slovenian politics, not just for one party or two, it is bad for the whole political space, for all of us, because the credibility of public policy in relation to the public is being lost, which is not good for any of us. And the blue policy, a policy with a kilometre like Gregor Golobič has, we know that he was one of the main creators of the LDS policy in 1992-2003, building on the entire human resources structure of this country, which still feels in the many para-state institutions of this country, so policies with such a kilometre should have this feeling and make the right move at the right time. Why are his concubines - I'm sorry to put myself that way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u217	Mr. Anderlich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u218	Noticed that, at the moment, it is necessary to defend its President in the manner they have set themselves, I do not know. [[...]] That's their problem and their problem. And it makes no sense for us to be involved in the National Assembly. The problem, however, remains with the Minister, because it is a broader problem, the problem of the Government and the whole of society and the state. In the period that we accept, I think we will be doing this tomorrow, a budget with a record deficit that will go into use, almost two billion euros, a debt budget that has already been implemented by 30. 6th this year, at the rate of three billion and a half euros, despite the fact that only 2.2 billion in the current balance 1 has been adopted, and with the ambition that this figure will double already this year, in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, when you are in charge of the entire amount of the annual budget, it is really not good to deal with these issues that we are talking about today. We should address these issues, which we will face tomorrow and the morning and many others. Unfortunately, however, this power, this withdrawal from the power of desire, from the lust for what the authorities offer, has not been detected by Minister Golobič, nor by his colleague in the party. And, unfortunately, we are witnessing not only that we have to deal with this, but we must work to restore at least part of credibility to politics. We have even witnessed that a few days after this story began, even an area that is interestingly conditioned by companies where Mr Golobič has an ownership stake and influence, has been transferred to his ministry. I think that such a policy, as we now see it, is talking about a ruling policy, a policy that is based on a very serious disease called cancer in people, a policy that is already heavily infected with clientelism and corruption at the beginning of its path, will not be able to find answers to the challenges of the current crisis. Public responses, I must say, by Mr Golobič and his client colleagues show that when it comes to them, some normal rules in this country do not apply. Somehow it feels like it's an affair brewed by the opposition and is now a victim of this affair, Mr Golobic. Far from it. Far from it. We know where this story came from. It was brewed between two coalition partners, and the moment Mr Kramar, who was in the interest of Mr Golobic, was withdrawn when Mr Veselinovic came from the LDS interest area, the matter was over. And because she did, she did it back through a so-called physiotherapist chamber. And here this electricity continues and will continue for a while. The opposition, however, is a convenient excuse for these matters to be covered. Look, we don't want to be in these stories, but we owe it to the public to respond to these things and, of course, we will be critical. And we will also act strictly professionally in this commission of inquiry and not in the way that some of us want to read or instigate. We regret it coming to her. I said there was no need for this committee. It wouldn't be necessary. A normal policy with a long-mile radius, a departure at the right time, a clarification of the situation and a handling of matters that primarily make us in the National Assembly. But it wasn't. This is why we are faced with trying to restore at least part of the reputation that was lost in this case. See, it is not a problem, the economic initiative is free, and politicians can also engage in economic activity under the current legislation. We know what these provisions are, we know what they are. There is a question of some normality in that a minister is co-owner of companies that have an interest in his ministry. Well, technically, everything could be fine. But then why hide-and-seek? If all these companies are not really cooperating with state-owned companies, it is not true that this company and the companies concerned have nothing to do with Luca Koper and other state-owned and para-national companies. That's not true. These companies are deeply involved in state affairs and will be even more entangled in the future, obviously, in these state affairs, which is not the best reflection of all those who are also capable and do not have an uncle minister to knock on his sleeve and have an impact on getting the deal. This is not good because it creates already at the start a sense of inequality in society and inequality in running for various jobs that can be obtained from the state sphere. Apparently, it was a decision to keep these hideouts going. Yesterday, when I look at the echoes, I see amazing things. Minister Golobic is lying again, sorry. It is said that Mr Nučič said at a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances that a document was a forgery. That's not true. I have a magnetogram here, Mr Nučič said: "As far as this document is concerned, whether it is a forgery or an original, I do not know, it will be found in the investigation process. "On the journalist's multiple question yesterday, Mr Golobic said, 'No, he said it was a forgery.' It's a small matter in a series of all these stories, irrelevant. But why hideouts here, please! Gentlemen from Ultra, Mr Golobič, throw these papers on the table, tell us how you received 6 million loans in December, whether it was true that it was approved within one week or before, how these procedures were carried out, what insurances were. If someone gets 6 million per house worth 200,000 euros, that is to say, it is secured credit. Far from being properly insured. And I'd like to see one of you in this room to be able to get that kind of credit. Maybe someone who's gone now because he has some connections from the past, but I doubt him too, because now he's fallen into grace in this new situation. Regrettably, with such stories, the National Assembly, because those who had a bad year ago felt that they could bring something new into Slovenian politics and even build their own political platform on how unspoiled, good, I read some interview with Mr. Golobič in the magazine The Face, and after reading it, I said, "I, the devil, because I am a bigger political cat than he" after what I read there, because he was a clean new face in politics, fresh. In 2008, Mr Golobič presented himself as a fresh new face in politics in the magazine The Face was just an advocate for young voters. I, who entered this policy, at the end of 2004, said that I already had quite a few political experiences. Poor guy. So which face is the real one? I'm talking about Mr. Golobich. Will we even be able to clear this up within this commission of inquiry? Is the true face of a simple humble farmer who struggles with organic farming? Did the true face of the employee who decided to leave the dirty politics in 2003, because he failed to achieve what he had imagined, and with a modest salary, I think that he then told Hlebša, by September 2008, 2000 euros or something like that, somehow "screw" a month or so, he worked in a company for which a few months later turns out to be the owner of a few hundred thousand or a million shares in it? Is the real face of this policy the face that tells me what kind of strength you make me, just be careful? Is this the face we're going to see next time Mr. Minister sits here, that's the face of a third-thousand-thousand policy? Do Slovenian public, Slovenian citizens and citizens deserve such faces in the Slovenian government and in Slovenian politics? Is this the face that says, "You in the opposition just wait a little longer, I have to deal with my boys who were with him earlier because they cooked this thing for me"? And that's what he's doing. It's not a good trip. A very poor traveller is also the response of the institution of the President of the country. She has lost all credibility, by how this institution is, I am talking about an institution, because unfortunately, Mr President, credibility has been lost a long time ago. The institution lost credibility the moment it responded in the way it responded, and more times, and did something that would not be allowed to be done. Let's just remember a few months ago, September 2008, when this same institution said in the case of another Prime Minister, who was publicly accused of corruption, that it was necessary to wait for the rule of law to speak. And there was no evidence, no clues, nothing. Here, in this case, it was clearly said, "Nothing is wrong. It's all right." More. "The power of his opposition." Bad. And I hope you will understand that this commission of inquiry is also necessary for you, and that you will cooperate with all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Černač, I would just like to find out, at the very beginning of my debate, which was also sharp, but has the right to be, you have taken the powers you do not have. You spoke to whom you would give your word and to whom you would allow what you could say, what you could not. That's what the president has, and please don't do that. Mr. Kek has the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Mr. Chernač, you said, "If I was honest," it would be more proper "if I were honest." You read me words I certainly didn't say. I don't know if it's intentional manipulation, or if you're wrong, you've overheard. You'll find out when you read the stenogram, so I'll do it again. I said, "In the magazine Manager, MEPs Tsukjat and Tanko said that it is not necessary to give information on media property, but enough to give it to the anti-corruption commission. You, Mr Zvonko Černač, and the other 20 SDS Members, did not give information on the property of this magazine, as did Mr Golobič, but it did not raise as much dust as it does because of it." Later, you asked who of us would be able to obtain 6 million credits so quickly and so secured. Maybe someone, but Ultra is definitely easier because he's been working with this bank for 20 years and he's been paying his loans regularly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u222	I regret that you have just replaced yourself in the presidency, but I wanted to tell Mr Ptræ, who previously presided over the meeting of the National Assembly, that what he said was not what I said. At the beginning of my debate, I said that until Gregor Golobič publicly discloses his assets, as Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have done, you have no moral right to discuss these matters. You have no moral right. But who gives the floor in the National Assembly, but it is very clear, and we also know who doesn't, and we also know that the current President of the National Assembly has unfortunately fallen under a virus too, that many words, when expected to do so, would not. However, this is his right as the President-in-Office of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] On this point, I am talking procedurally about the use of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Pečanova. Regarding what was said by Mr Kek - he spoke about information that was not intended to be given to the anti-corruption Commission
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u223	Well, Mr. Blackach. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u224	Some kind of magazine [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u225	This really isn't a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u226	The manager has now been mentioned as new, I don't know. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u227	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u228	Where did you get it? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u229	This was not a procedural proposal. Mr Tanko has the floor on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation. You know, there's one thing if you decide not to give the data, because that's not necessary. And the other thing is if you decide to do it and give false information. And we're talking about a case where someone decided to transmit the data, I don't know, to the Finance Officer and someone else, but with a fake feature. And if you mentioned two Members who, I don't know, didn't give the magazine Manager in the previous term, I don't remember being asked, but it would be good to list all those Members, not just two and three. Perhaps Mr. Gantar, Mrs. Orazmova, sitting next to you, and someone else. It was a free decision, like to publish your data and write it in the column that all the data "keeps track" and one section is fake. It's also a sovereign decision. And today we can also talk about - that someone has given data and has lied about it. He didn't make a mistake, but he gave false information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, let's talk about this data, giving it to you, so don't mind me quoting you, but, however, Mr Kek's reaction to your debate, Mr Tanko, when you said that all SDS members gave the information to the Reporter, but I don't know how many Members didn't give us this data. This can be true, but as a reaction to this, Mr Rojej said that you did not give the Manager the data. But there was no talk of lies, but there was talk of giving or not giving information. I think that giving information to the public about own property is a matter of free decision for everyone, but not now some moral obligation that you have invented and that is why we must all now give the media our information on our property. It's the media and you don't care what assets we have here in the National Assembly and other officials. However, if you succeed in the adoption of the law, and I will vote for it, so much so that you know that the information should also be made available to the public, then we will have to give the information. However, it will not be some kind of moral investment of some parliamentary group, but it will be a law. For this reason, I would like to say something about today's debate and what we have heard about the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry on, otherwise, the very clearly written Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, Mr Gregor Golobic, and the indication that the Government could demand or also set its time to give an opinion on the matter. That parliamentary investigations have been initiated, I think that after 20 so far, or even more, in these mandates, since the parliamentary inquiry was one of the institutions of the National Assembly, and not once is the Government, not this one, not she, not the tenth, has made requests for an opinion, even if it has not been a nominal one, as it was the first time that one natural person has been accused, already as an investigator established in the title of the parliamentary inquiry, not once has any government requested time to perform a parliamentary inquiry. The truth is great. We have heard this once in the address of our now-president, Vice-President of the National Assembly, then the President. And because there are many truths is true, usually when we unite all these many truths into one. And one very big truth is that the SDS Group would not have initiated a parliamentary inquiry, together with other partners who signed this request, if it had judged that the intervention against the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Gregor Golobič would have been, but would have been, in this case, indeed treated as Minister, rather than as a natural person, who would have been glued to the Minister's name to make it easier to justify the parliamentary inquiry to be required, but because you had decided that the interpretation would have caused, like the intervention against Minister Kresalovo, a larger promotion of reputation, Mr Gregor Golobic's rating, because you could have answered all your accusations publicly, without any reservations, with all the arguments at his disposal. You've ruled that this is a hole in the water and that it is therefore better to be a prosecutor, a judge and a executioner in one person. That's what we heard today. The kind of moralization that we have had to see or hear today, which has not been heard in this hall for a long time, nor in the whole of Slovenia. I could now talk about the reasons for the parliamentary investigation, but it seems to me that one of the reasons why the parliamentary investigation, and not another way of attacking Minister Gregor Golobic, is that all events within the parliamentary commission of inquiry take place behind closed doors more or less, that the individual witnesses' hearings are always closed, that a joint statement is made and that the person attacked in this case - otherwise, when some unknown culprits were sought for some political problem. However, when an individual is accused and given no opportunity in a parliamentary inquiry and is not given the opportunity to publicly defend himself and tell people and be present at any hearing to tell his side of the medal, then, of course, it is a mere political lynching where data is collected with a view to being launched, as was this anonymity, and that and false anonymity in relation to Ultra's loans. Then, at the end of the day, we only found out. And I'll say something else, this text says it's a suspicion of the crimes of those, those, thirds, tens. Where a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia detects a suspicion of a crime, he or she knows who is to commit the offence, he or she shall be obliged to surrender his or her suspicion to the competent authorities. Why is it that all those who have signed this request for parliamentary investigation have not been transferred to the right authorities, the investigating authorities? Why did you need the Commission to oversee public finances to hide as individuals as an organ of the National Assembly, this is the most unusual thing for me to understand, for the working body of the National Assembly, to take a decision on the transfer of information on the crimes of Mr Gregor Golobič to the competent investigative authorities, the law enforcement authorities? I must say that one who has nothing to do with initiating a criminal complaint, given that he has reasonable suspicion that this crime has happened, he does not have what he should have. And I must say that it has been seen here today how unusual it is that the current position, just as it was when the coalition was in opposition, is launching the most parliamentary investigations. In the previous term, all parliamentary investigative committees formed by a coalition other than one were about the months when the parliamentary investigation was launched for Mercator and I think that about 100 other companies would not forget this, and then the parliamentary investigation initiated by the opposition, we also forgot why it happened. But it never came out to the public, and I'm not going to say it now. We, Mr Tanko, both know why you rushed the opposition to request a parliamentary investigation by Mercator. I wouldn't talk too much about it, because sometimes there can be things that aren't too pleasant for you or anyone else. So I'd say they're now multiplying like mushrooms in the rain. I've heard that mushrooms grow badly this year despite the rain. But as mushrooms in the rain, parliamentary investigative commissions are growing. I will propose to my colleagues that we introduce an additional one so that the balance between the coalition and the opposition is not accidentally as different as it was in the previous term.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As far as I am concerned about the Golobic case and the time when we are going back to the time of the elections, Mr Golobič did not tell the newspaper, which he asked about it, all he could or could not say was what he should have said. I have to say that lately all of this rape of all the media with how many of us have, and I have to answer every day, I don't know what else, and they keep inventing something -- it really bothers me. But something. I'm part of the policy, and I'm responding to this quite up-to-date. But I tell you the truth, I don't like it. I've reported all my assets to the commission of the Dear Hair. It is necessary to know that this property I have is not much, but it is also inherited. By inheriting something, I also inherited great expense. But you know, I only need one roof for myself, and I don't need three roofs. What my father and mother created in their time when they were just looking at life, that something must be created. You know what it's like to be a farmer. But all I have with it is expenses. Otherwise, I am grateful, I respect my parents, and I will certainly take good care of my fatherhood as long as I am strong and as long as I have enough income to care for it. If I go back to Mr. Dove. I also see him as one victim. The victim of his failure to report the matter at the time, or to say so, could have had a different outcome if he had said so. But today this movie can't be reversed, the result would be different, and now we're here where we are. And then, as far as I've been watching, he's reported all his assets to the Anti-Corruption Commission. I think some of them might be grateful to him, but now he's fallen for what he fell for. And, of course, this reveals again various new issues with which the Commission will have a lot of work to do. What will be the result, but it will show itself. The Commission should see its department, see the results as they will be, and then we can all learn a lot from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Much has already been said today, in particular, but also in general. But I noticed something else, and I could say that obviously every thing is for something good, including this thing. I've noticed the true reincarnation of colleagues on the other side. All of a sudden, unlike your previous mandate, you have begun to swear on the correct paradigm that no one is to blame until proven guilty. But let me just remind you, those of you who are new to me, those of you who were already in your previous term, but I only remember that this was not the case in the previous term. You resent what we're doing in the opposition right now. But let me remind you again, those who have not yet been appointed here, and I say that what we are doing, compared with what Mr Squeakl and some of the opposition in the previous term, does not go to the ankles, nor to the basis of what Mr Squeakl did. Of course he wasn't the only one, but he was the one who got out of it, so I call him. But don't tell me he's not here because you can talk about problems and things. He's synonymous with that. He was the President of the Commission for budgetary control. He was only abusing his commission for his political, political and incriminating purposes. We even had to change the rules of procedure so that Parliament could work at all, that its commission could work at all, because otherwise public procurement could not be implemented. We've even come this far. He did not respect the Rules of Procedure, he did not respect anything that the members of the Commission requested, which was on the other hand, so we had to change the Rules of Procedure for him. So now to say that you haven't seen anything like it in Parliament before is what we do, it's, I don't know, a cellophane-wrapped white pigeon compared to that, really. And that's what I said very harshly. I apologize to the white pigeon. That was the facts. Not just that. In particular, from this case, which I have mentioned, and specifically has accused the President of the Government in advance, as well as the Minister of Finance, but in particular the President of the Government. He was already guilty in advance, he already took the millions of euros in advance, he's already done it all in advance. Also, foreign television had to be involved. What will result from this is so much evidence that has been announced. None of that. Today I even hear that journalist declares that he will avoid Slovenia because he is afraid that he will come to a procedure that has also been announced. But now you're in power. That's what they say, no evidence, no guilt such that it's already for guillotine and no evidence. They're still missing today, and it was said that immediately, two months after the election, all the evidence would be on the table. I'm guessing there's so much evidence that trucks won't be able to drive. There's no evidence yet. Everyone's running away, everybody's saying, "Yeah, we didn't mean it like that." But the person was accused right then. We're not accusing anyone today, we're just stating what was going on. That's something else. There's no need to be disgusted with that. When there are so many questions, why the parliamentary investigation, why not the interpretation? We've decided to conduct a parliamentary investigation. But if you think the interpretation is better, then why didn't you announce it and you'd go with the Minister's interpretation, if you think it's so good. Parliamentary investigation is a perfectly legitimate matter. It's a purely legitimate procedure, a legitimate reception for the opposition. Don't tell us why we're doing this. Apparently, things are going on that need to be somehow overturned, examined, tried to figure it out. And don't say it, then report it there. Yeah, to whom you're gonna report, because the one they're getting next to is released after two months, so they can hunt him down in Europe with an international warrant if they ever get it. This is the only instrument of the opposition - a parliamentary inquiry to determine political responsibility. Not for any other responsibility, but for political responsibility. It's just that it's a matter of days. Certainly, this thing didn't come to the side of the SDS, like you, well, not you personally sitting here, but from your side it was coming that SDS was involved here. And how can SDS get data, say from banks, if not even the parliamentary financial committee can get it, but we can get it?Oh, my God! It's funny that you say something like that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The parliamentary investigation, let's just say it will find out, is always the hope. And that's our legitimate step, our legitimate right, and that's how we're gonna do it. Don't worry about what we're doing, I'll say it again. What the current opposition is doing is not even for a cellophane white pigeon, which was done by Mr Squeakl and some of his fellow thinkers in the previous term. I support the parliamentary investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you. The word has been given to you, sir. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] Do you have a procedural proposal? You weren't appointed. Mrs. Pechanova, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I didn't feel bad about you initiating a parliamentary investigation. I was appalled at the way we were doing today, shortly before my performance, and I had to listen. Morale, because we have to be here, either in the hall or in the office, and we hear that we know what we're actually going to have to do in this commission of inquiry. And I must say that man must be appalled at such highly moralistic accusations, lawsuits, convictions and, in the end, execution/implementation. That is exactly how the purpose of this commission of inquiry was heard today. And now I'm gonna say one more thing. One of the Members was accused of lying because it was not said that we should be quiet. Exactly such words have been used, "and please either shut up or keep quiet," something similar. I'm going to look for a magnetogram, and tomorrow, on any occasion, there's always going to be a million other things to discuss, and I'm going to read that magnetogram, so that a colleague who's so very truthful, very honest and the best and oh, and he's going to see that he's not rarely lying either.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say that man is now, for four hours now, in this debate, such debates in his own sad way, to what low level we have brought the Slovenian Parliament. The opposition went to the minister in a personal, insulting, discredited way. He was found guilty before evidence was presented and convicted and politically lynched. And that was the whole point. I have said in the position of the Group of Members, that I am also joining in, we support the establishment of an investigation. The investigation should do its work properly, on the results, on what was wrong, if anything happened, but of course we will talk later. But it is also the second part of the story that has appeared in parallel for the past month, that Slovenian politics and politics are competing over who has less, who is poorer. I am just telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that those who were not able to take care of themselves there at 40, 50 and more years of age will also have little regard for the well-being of these taxpayers and taxpayers. And this is also shown in practice. But let's not waste any more taxpayer time, but I'm giving up further discussions. I think we have some important points today. Above all, I think it is important that people, citizens and citizens really have something if we achieve that trials and justice in courts, where only evidence is considered, will be provided within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! We have just heard an incredible reference to Slovenian politics, taxpayers, state governance, because citizens and voters can only trust those who have acquired millions and millions of euros in public funds in a few years. This is the recipe of the head of the LDS Group. And that kind of defense of its personnel seems logical to me. In another case, it should also put some of the officials of their own party, who are in high places in the current government, at the present level. And I wonder how long Mr Pahor will be able to agree to such logic. How long can he hold in his hand the iron he is called the ministers of his government? Because it is increasingly obvious that this iron will become too hot and will have to be released sooner or later by Mr Pahor. Especially after what you reveal yourself today. And when we talk about the parliamentary investigation in Mr Golobic's case, it was not a personally offensive form of opposition. He was caught on a lie by the media. They presented their own statements to him. This has been helped, and I must thank you here, also some of the officials who are now in the bank of your kind, Mr Saiovic, because it was a prestigious struggle, for the recruitment and without it today, to see how some of the companies that have 2,500 euro capital are distributed around the world and are global enterprises. But at home, companies have millions and millions of assets. Interesting logic. Even before I go any further, because this point led me to start this, I must also deny what Mr Kek said, and I think he mentioned to me that I did not report to Mr Kos. This is, of course, an untruth and a lie. I don't know where that came from. Mr. Sandi Czech of your party, Mr. Saiovic, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] He was a friend of Mr Golobič and all of these, but as a state councilman he never submitted a report. [[...]] Never. It was from the same nest, from the same nest. So, no consequences. And look, of course it started today, or at least on behalf of the parliamentary group, Cveta Zalokar Orazem's colleague pressured and threatened the press that it was a media lynching. This departs from the fact that you have always said that you are not involved in editorial policy. Today, when it comes to protecting dedicated ministers and dedicated people, the pressure on the public media house is justified and bearing fruit these pressures, I hear, are not the journalists' fault, they are terrible. At 6:30 p.m., I listened to a completely debilitated report on the radio, and the journalist must have been under pressure, he dropped a half sentence from the candidates, and there was a physical cut off: Petra Verlic. Secondly, of course, how do you reason that highways are not worth discussing? And at the beginning, the forecaster was that there was little chance or there was no way that the investigator would handle anything. Of course, we will also hear similar comments on this matter, about this investigative committee, certainly, on the basis of pressure on journalists, capital and politics, which pressures journalists and editors. And the Commission of Inquiry, as I said earlier, is a political commission, it is an important institution of parliamentary democracy and it will also give birth in this case or bring important results. Perhaps the commission of inquiry should be not just one minister but a minister or a minister or a government. That would be more rational. But then again, we'd say it's too big, and it's not going to do that, as you said in the previous committee, it's going to do too much. And look, because everything else has actually been said and in a very effective way, but when we're talking about these clientistic connections, let me say one thing that he recently warned me about, and I'm just going to say, literally, a farmer breeder, with a lot of livestock. When I happened to be with him, he said, "Yeah, one more thing, one more thing." And he begged me into the hands of a small rubber object, a registration number for the ear of the questioners, to track the origin of the livestock, which must have all the cattle, any question of it on the ear. And these questionants often tear it off and have to order a new one. This tire - Mr Saiovic will know exactly what this is about - is worth it, according to my assessment, which I am a chemist, half a euro total, with the fast mail through which the farmer must order it, perhaps a euro and a half. The farmer costs a little less than €10. But this farmer said to me, "Look what I noticed today!" He turns his back and says "Ultra." I don't know if it's Ultra, but even if it's farmed this way through Ultra, it's the only farming that brings extras, ultras bring in agriculture. Because there is a €8 or €7 on one label. And if that's how it got some company out of the country, I don't know if it's the same Ultra, this farmer told me and showed me, it really did say "Ultra" in the back, and then it really does grow in Slovenia. But all the other farmers live and die. Only such farmers are successful. That is why I would end up saying what was highlighted here, Mr Golobič's statement that he cannot defend himself. Members are here to discuss, and he has no opportunity to sit here and defend himself. This is indeed misleading and misleading, misleading the Slovenian public, sometimes called "non plus ultra". And the "non plus ultra" of the untruths has been told and the deception on this side has already been enormous. Look, this investigative commission is an ultra-sum about Ultra Sum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you. Do you have a replica, Mr. Saiovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Jerovšek for his two-time, three-time talk. I'd like to say something back in the replica, but I'm afraid I'm not going to be very understanding. I think that Slovenian voters and voters have understood because one MEP has just responded to them so flatly, with one hand in his pocket, even that we have come to the cattle from a serious political debate. I have to say it's true, I've been dealing with cattle for 22 years, and I'm proud of it. But I've had a lot to do with the election lately, but I'm not ashamed of it either. My message, however, was to tell Mr Jerovšk what the reputations of Slovenian politics should be. That people who go into politics would be right to have results in their different fields of expertise if they knew something. I'm so worried today. Del says that former Minister Milan Zver has not yet found a job, that there is no job for Gregor Virant, former Interior Minister Dragutin Mate, and also Mrs Zofija Mate Kukovič is not finding a job, and they are still on substitutes for Slovenian taxpayers, which, of course, can be a problem during the recession. And here is that understanding, Mr Jerovšek, of the credibility of Slovenian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Of course, I support the parliamentary investigation into the Gregor Golobič or Ultra case. I'd probably do myself the greatest favor, and I'd do the best I could if I'd stepped down or replaced by the Prime Minister. It's not like you're asking us to do anything, let's do something, let's do some interpolation, or let's do something. He knows who has to do something with the ministers of his government. And if we go in the right order. We have written that we want to identify both the property and the origin of this property by means of an investigative commission. If this property is all right, perhaps Mr Golobic should not be lied to about it, I would easily tell you how he got what he had and what he was doing to have it. And the co-owner of Ultra became, so says Mr Urbania, co-owner of Ultra, because he is so good, he has such ingenuity skills, so he rewarded him with ownership in 2007. He developed some patent, Ultra's modem, and it's not just written in. Because this patent is so good, he didn't have to pay his income. However, if this was a gift, we know that a gift should be presented and a gift tax should be paid. But he probably failed to do so at that time because he was so impressed with his ingenuity and such an important gift. And if we continue with the status of the farmer and how he has acquired some of this property, which we will or the commission will discuss. There's something published about how he bought the land. He lives in Ljubljana, says he walks around Bar, I don't know why he went after the decision on the status of the farmer in Sevnica. It must have been an accident. But for his building permit to get it on his land, which is worth EUR 3 million today, he then gave EUR 53 000 for it. He must have grown so much that now it's so much more valuable and invested so much in this land. However, the former head of the Department of Environment and Space on the Piranian Unit and his LDS client colleague gave him a building permit to do so. And like I said, for him to buy land like this, he had to acquire the status of a farmer. He went for this status to the Sevnica Administrative Unit, where they destroyed these documents last year, so we can't look at them in accordance with the law on handling such documents, i.e. the archive. 3. Seven. In 1998, he was granted the status of a farmer, 3. Seven. They destroyed it in 2008. And the third thing that we were taught about, how was the invitation to tender in Ljubljana or to choose the urban card of Urban. Journalists have written about this and say that the documentation itself has been poorly prepared. Why? Since there was not one basic requirement within which almost every dossier contained that the tenderer should have a recommendation in this field. Because Ultra's never done anything like that before, and he doesn't have that kind of reference. Of course, there are 10 other companies that have such references that are competitive and could be selected on such a call. However, there was some skyscraper and he signed up for this invitation, despite the fact that already a large Slovenia knew that the deal was reserved for Ultra and that he also submitted his offer, which was a million euros cheaper. Mr Jankovic found that both bidders qualified for the project, but they both offered too much price and we will still negotiate the price. Apparently, he didn't negotiate much, because the price of Ultra - 4.3 million euros remained. And on 17 June last year, they published why the offer of another tenderer was excluded. Because they offered software and communication equipment free of charge. Someone gives you something for free and you reject it, and that's why you even eliminate it from the invitation to tender. This is probably only in Ljubljana, under the tactics of the great manager, the successful, good Mr Jankovic. The other tenderer complained. There he failed, despite warning him with a few things, why he felt that their offer was better and why they should be chosen. But it may be right for the Ljubljanaers to say that the city card that is late for introduction, etc., Ultra, however, is going to be stuck to something obvious, but they are still chosen and will receive 54,000 euros a month to run the management centre. So it's a total of 2 million euros. While this other bidder, who was expelled, would do so monthly for EUR 2 000. But again, Mr Jankovic doesn't care, because of course the Ljubljana people will pay for it, not him. The fact is that Mr Golobič, when he announced that he was leaving politics forever, returned to politics mainly because he had become a co-owner of Ultra during that time. And Ultra and the companies in Ultra obviously need some fresh capital from the state budget. Ultre’s balance sheet shows that in 2006 and 2007, she created a minus in her regular business, which she covered with, we don’t know, high financial revenues. That, I hope, will be discovered by the commission. The revenue of Ultra last year was EUR 7.2 million. For business in Ljubljana alone, the city card in Jankovic will receive €6.7 million. Therefore, only the naive can believe that this happens by accident and that it happened by accident, that we transferred telecommunications from the Ministry of Higher Education to the ministry of Gregor Golobič. Some of you have said that he will now have a chance to say or that he has no chance to say. That's not entirely true. Journalists keep asking him where he got that kind of stuff. He is also asked why he has a company in the Netherlands and not Slovenia. And he hasn't answered that either. The most interesting are the words of Mrs Shirce, who said she did not want the Minister to resign because he is a good minister and an associate member of the Government. It is nice that the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, pays him from the tax money, is probably small compared to what he has, but from those taxes that he would not pay to Slovenia, but pays elsewhere. I think that the greater damage to Slovenia is that it does not pay taxes in Slovenia, rather, if it gave up. Some of you have talked about the fact that as long as all of this is based on the doubt that no one is to blame, until the guilt is proven to him, we absolutely agree, although in the Patricia case, on weapons, when nothing has been discovered to date, no evidence, no charges, you have continued to make very loud accusations. We discussed this half the previous term. And it was someone who led such an investigative committee investigating the patriotic business that he earned the post of Secretary General of this government. Without Mr Golobič asking himself if he might be guilty. He first accuses our party's president, Janez Janso, of accusing the NLB, accusing even the LDS, accusing the media. At the same time, of course, he has received severe support from the government, the president of the state, who says so, admitted the lie. Of course he confessed, but when he was caught lying. If there was anything in his pants, he wouldn't have to lie. And what worries me most is that most of his client colleagues are then told to do the same. They'd do or probably work, lie to us every day. And when you tell us to press charges, you have also made many accusations today, which would call for charges, and I hope that you will file them. In this country, we have a commission in Kosovo, which likes to give principled opinions, and we also have complaints. In the event of a substantially minor crime or a very serious, secret information issue, the police are acting on their own and acting on their own official duty, because this imposes a law on them, they could probably do the same in this case. The Minister could have resigned himself, he could have been replaced by the President of the Government, and maybe we wouldn't have talked about it today. That is how we must, and it is right that the Commission of Inquiry, which will certainly bring some new information about any other deposit and similar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm gonna have to be quick. There's not much time. The announcement of time first. Parliamentary investigation is a matter of the National Assembly. The government has never announced time for parliamentary investigations, according to my best conduct and investigation at this time. This is a separation between the executive and the legislative powers. We should be talking today about the act of parliamentary investigation, not the charges against Gregor Golobic or anyone. This parliamentary inquiry is very interesting, very significant, it will have terrible consequences for the parliamentary investigation and this National Assembly and public function holders, because we have already determined the suspect in the act, this should be done by the Commission. There are a number of problems that also relate to the legal formulation of these matters. I can't talk about it because I'm running out of time. And in fact, in some way, if there was a government representative here from this point of view, he would be unfair because there must be a divorce. Gregor Golobič, given that you were talking about the conviction of Golobič, not the act, of course he had no opportunity to answer this meeting. Now let's go ahead with the repairs. Those who say that others lie should take care of their statements. Mr Černač said that Mr Nučič had never said that document was a falsification. I quote you. Mr Nučič said: "In view of the statement or statement made to the public, that the exposure is 5.9 million to Ultra and that these exposures are secured, it is obviously a falsification, because here they are zero in insurance." Which is true, she'll find out about the internal investigation. Next thing. You were saying, I have to say, I've known Gregor Golobic for a long time, I believe, I've heard on the side of the Blackman some amazing information that has astounded me and I may change my mind. Look, sir, you've been talking to the Dove's multimillion-dollar assets. Please, Mr Černač, report for the replica now immediately and name all objects, properties and so on that justify your claim of multimillion-dollar assets and do not pretend that the stake in Ultra Sum is not worth what and how much. Please do this now, or I'll have to charge you with actually lying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Blacky, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u250	First of all, about what was said first. It would be expected that the President of the National Assembly, in the light of the role he was playing, regardless of the fact that he was currently discussing as a Member, would read the entire programme of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and not just one piece. And that piece he reads is also rejecting his statements. What Mr Gantar has read also speaks of the fact that Mr Nučič did not say that it was a falsification. But he forgot to read the first part of his statement, where Mr Nučič said, quote: "If I go from behind, as far as this document is concerned, I see for the first time whether it is a falsification or an original, I do not know, it will be found in an internal investigation procedure, which I have said that the administration has decided to start it immediately and will, of course, be determined whether it is the original data and where it came from and so on." And then follow what Mr. Gantar reads. I also said in my debate that this is not even so important and I said, this is a very simple matter. Mr Golobič, who feels and speaks about the fact that this is a falsification and that these data are not credible, let him say, given that he is the co-owner of the company he is talking about, how and how this credit is secured and how it has been obtained by what procedures and there will be no debate, no speculation. If everything was in accordance with the rules of the bank, in accordance with internal rules and so on, if these credits were granted in the same way that such credits had to be granted, then I really do not see any reason for a major political debate to take place. Secondly, as regards property, see, Mr Gantar, Mr Golobic will have to say this. This debate has been going on for some time now. Black man is a member of this National Assembly. He said the information that was publicly available, and I think the Finances have published these numbers. And I took that data. And because I'm just about to say the word to Mrs. Pecan. Far from it, Mrs. Pecanov, that I be so 100% and unmarried. We're all bleeding under the skin and making minor and minor mistakes. And I never bragged about myself. Far from it. I am very critical of myself, which I think it would be right for others to be. But I separate big from small mistakes. I separate big things from small things. If I've ever said anything other than what was said, I didn't do it for any bad reason. But it would be good if, let's say, I don't know, you were dealing a little bit more with things that are more important. For me, it is more important than whether there is a single point or a comma somewhere, why, for example, one municipality sold EUR 2.5 million of immovable property without a public invitation to tender or without an evaluation. These are more important questions than dots and commas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am the new Member of the National Assembly. And I'm not gonna replicate my colleague Petan. I really want to know when, or why, this is a rhetorical question, I will not wait for the answer, this investigative commission institute has been introduced. Each time, or in previous mandates, when I monitored the meetings only through the media, one party argued that it was necessary to set up an investigative commission, the other that it was not. That's how I'm in a dilemma now. However, I think that the decision on the Institute that the Institute for the Establishment of an Investigative Commission has been taken here once in the National Assembly. And there's one thing I need to make clear. In front of me, they have already emphasized that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. And, of course, I absolutely agree with that. Now I don't know, I haven't noticed, not even in these discussions that anyone would have accused or even convicted Gregor Golobič. Okay, they'll say that. And also the evidence that we referred to the media, that things weren't proven. I don't know if we should be reading the newspapers and watching the TV at home, but everything we've been tracking can be debated at home, or, on the basis of this information that appears in the media, we can raise our ears, especially if it's a minister in this case. And I would like to point out something else, as my colleague Barovic said earlier, that we are in front of the marriage or that we should all be the same. And my colleague Barovic was invited to the crime police simply because there was a suspicion, someone reported getting two trucks of sand for free. He came to the police, explained, now I don't know, it was either rejected or proven to have committed an act that was not in accordance with the law. On the basis of these data, this information must be recognised as having reasonable suspicion in this case. This is also stated in the request for the establishment of a parliamentary commission, in these four points where suspicion is discussed everywhere. And I thought that this parliamentary investigation would either throw this away or prove or this would prove its illegal act or perhaps prove it in another place. And I certainly expect this suspicion to be proven or rejected. And in this debate, I also agree that we will not resolve or clear up all dilemmas, because that is not the point either. This, I hope, will be cleared up and resolved by the commission of inquiry. And even the evidence that others are doing things in one way or another is of course not an excuse. What is allowed or easier to look at through the fingers, others are not, because they are under the watchful eye, under public scrutiny. These are ministers, Members of Parliament, and we are not against property, as we have heard. However, there is a difference: whether someone, in this case Gregor Golobič is an entrepreneur, only an entrepreneur, and has his business abroad because of me, because of business decisions, or whether this entrepreneur is also a minister who owns this company abroad. And it is probably, or at least morally, to explain why he is abroad, for what purpose he has transferred this property abroad. I claim that by setting up or requesting the establishment of this commission, no one is currently being accused, but that the possibility of these matters being clarified is said to be proven or rejected. To the conclusion. Whatever the result of this investigative commission will be, I hope that the Commission will work successfully, this will certainly be a reminder to all of us who are, I can say, public figures, that we will have to be careful how and how it will work. Whether he's a member of the government or something. Why was this committee institute introduced? Probably with this very purpose, because if we were to vote, I agree that it is possible to have a seemingly meaningless debate on the establishment of this Commission, because there is no vote on it. However, if we voted, it would probably be the same as in all the other matters on which we are voting. The coalition would vote and the Commission would not be set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In a discussion in which, if I use a sports lingo, low blows, insults and after recklessly mentioned animals were used, there is really nothing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr Tanko has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you very much. First, I would like to react once again to the statements made by the President of the National Assembly. The government had the opportunity to announce the time to discuss both points on the subject of parliamentary investigations and did not take advantage of this opportunity. And at any time, I could propose those of my ministers who think they are most competent for the topic under consideration. In this case, when the main focus is on electronic communications, on the payment of electronic services, and given that an important area of electronic communications has been transferred by law to higher education, the Minister of Higher Education would certainly be expected to do so. And it would probably be very easy to respond easily to what is stated in the request for a parliamentary inquiry, which proposes to investigate the suspicions of the clienteleistic and corrupt behaviour of the public function holder. Here any statement made by any Member could be answered by a representative of the Government, probably by the Minister of Higher Education easily. And the statement made in the media that the Minister for Higher Education was not able to answer or be directly involved in the debate is just another set of lies that we are forced to deal with when dealing with this point and these practices. I can also conclude that the time for reflection taken by Minister Golobič was not productive, was not well used. Apparently, in the coalition, you also tactfully misjudged what the next step of the opposition would be. You're all talking a lot about interpolation. I guess that's what you expected. You must have prepared yourself for this and for such a debate. However, in the opposition or the proponents, we have decided to require an investigative commission to take time to deal with these allegations and/or suspicions from case to case, in our opinion, and finally, if the work of the members of the investigative commission is creative if they act in the field on the basis of legal acts and laws, then it is likely that the findings will remain, either positive or negative. However, decisions will be based on laws, regulations and other decisions. I must also find that such a state, when an important part of the Government is involved in some suspicions of various corruption, makes it impossible for an effective, homogeneous, productive government. Here this year we were dealing with some problems and suggestions from the government about how to give someone the privilege of returning to the National Assembly after taking up a position. We engaged in the transfer of part of the Ministry's activity to another ministry, which will certainly create a conflict of interests between ownership, public function, calls, contract signing, monitoring and monitoring of the implementation of the Treaties. On the other hand, we have also faced how and who should manage, say, the SID Bank, although it is typically a banking and financial institution, and once again the implementation and supervision of this under the influence of a minister who is not entirely responsible for these matters, but will probably control it more from the point of view of hobby. I think these actions, these findings that have come to the fore recently, are those that hinder the work of the Government, which prevent the Government from coming in on time with the right measures. And that is also why there has been a significant backlog in economic growth. Today, we have a lower economic growth or a greater decline in economic growth than some Eastern bloc countries, which have so far been significantly behind the economic growth of Slovenia. And it will be very difficult for someone in this Chamber to convince me that we are more structurally unadjusted to the challenges of the crisis that have come to us, such as, say, the Czech Republic or Poland. While, in fact, we are both doing business in the majority with the European Union countries. It is said that it would be appropriate for those ministers who have happened to them to be involved or suspected of acting in clientele, corrupt associations and not to act legally in order to withdraw themselves, to take this burden on themselves and to allow those in the Government or the President of the Government to appoint new people, other ministers, and to relieve the work of the Government. And that's how we keep working on how these things accumulate. But it is very strange that some political actors who may not have been able to judge and give some broad support because of the function they have, some individual case that has been found in some unpleasant story. I do not think that the President of the Republic acted and made no decision and made no wise statements when he stood up and protected one of the ministers of this government. In this case, when there are reasonable suspicions before commenting, I think that I should wait either for the outcome of the investigation or if these acts are not carried out by those authorities who have been called upon to do so, I should probably wait for the findings of the Commission of Inquiry. The fact that someone in advance is thus further defined to some position, some role, and only one, while for other similar cases he does not do so and has not done so in the past, when suspicions have arisen, which are now proven to have been false, shows us that such actions have a different role, including a different basis. I think it should be avoided in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the application. Mrs. Pecan, everyone has two minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u258	I must say that I have read the magnetogram and found that my colleague Montenegro has commanded us with the words 'and until then shut up about it', I must say that the tone was very interesting as well. When he linked this to the fact that we have no moral right until Mr Gregor Golobič gives this, the one and the third that we must all remain silent until then. Who is Mr. Cernač, that he can order the National Assembly and the Universal Slovenia through him, that he must remain silent until he decides that we have the right to say something? Now I would like to ask just one more question about this. Today we have heard that this commission will not be a parliamentary commission of inquiry, but will be a commission to determine the origin of Mr Gregor Golobic's assets. I think it would be very useful for this committee to advise you, because you have signed this proposal or this request to extend this commission to determine the origin of the assets of some other important politicians. Let's say those who can just buy an apartment in Ljubljana at the expense of a Member and former Prime Minister of the Government, for example. For such lousy salaries as Members of Parliament and members of the Government, one might wonder where some Members are getting money for such large purchases. Let's take a look. Because also, you know, buying an apartment in Ljubljana, and not small, on credit, on a parliamentary salary, it's certainly hard to pay for that kind of credit. So something should be asked, though. Let's expand. Let us ask ourselves, Where are the sources of many in this hall and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u259	Thank you. Let me fix it. The time for discussion is 3 minutes per Member. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u260	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. I agree with what Mrs Pecanov said. I am also one of the Members who bought an apartment in Ljubljana. But it's true that none of my colleagues have as much mortgage as I do. But of course that's not the kind of thing that the media would be interested in. They're interested in other things. Today’s investigators are said to be interested in the truth. If the debate in the investigation is as it was during this debate on its establishment, of course it will not come to the truth. Because to come to the truth, you have to listen. If we do not obey each other, then it may be difficult to come to common conclusions that could eventually be told the truth if consensus and agreement on them are sufficient. On the one hand, the untruths are repeated, on the other hand, answers can be offered, or on the other hand, the end of the other insomnia is passed, but if, of course, things are not heard, if we do not listen to each other, then we will find it difficult to get to what this investigator is meant to be. I myself am skeptical of her success, because I see that we have had great debates already about who here is allowed to give a word, what we have cleared up. Now we have come almost to a debate, but who here is allowed to give some moral credibility to one or the other. It is not, of course, Mr Chernač who has the power to allow someone to say something with moral authority or not to say, these things are being done slowly and the reputation of a person must be slowly established. Every single one of us creates one through our lives. It is demolished, at least in this room, with ease, without doubt, with its left hand, with both gloves, without, however, achieving political objectives. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I've been listening to a debate all day about two investigative commissions. I have to, in a way, not replicate, but reject the two insinuations or the values of the judgments that have been given. One was also slightly earlier given that a good part of the government was corrupt and therefore the government was not effective. I firmly deny it, and this is really about cheap political affairs. And the other one. It was said a little earlier that the dots and the commas didn't matter. How important are the dots and the commas. Those who are manipulated or manipulated change the contents of a sentence or the contents of a thought that we want to say. And last but not least, it was extremely difficult for me today to listen to the moralization of those colleagues from the SDS Parliamentary Group, who have been in the media for the past fourteen days or the last two months, who have abused the situation, and who are also sitting in this Chamber, and today, especially at the first commission of inquiry, hour and more, the Levites share about moral integrity, etc. And another of the important commissions that this commission of inquiry will deal with are also being led by Parliament. Here, of course, dear colleagues, you have no moral credibility. This is where you really fell on that exam. Such people and such colleagues in this National Assembly could and should be silent today, but not that they were even playmakers as candidates of the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u263	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that we should have such debates when we talk about some Members, like the fact that something has happened and actually hasn't even started, but only about the suspicions that we should stop. And to ask those who speak in that way, even excuses. As long as there's nothing proven to anyone, he's innocent until then. We have not charged anything either, but we have requested the commission of inquiry to confirm or reject the suspicions we are talking about. Mr President, I think that there is a need for debate, even now that the replica is no longer available, to stop such debates which accuse without arguments, without evidence, without conclusions, without the judgments of the relevant authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u265	There have been many hurtful words in the National Assembly spoken both on the one hand and on the other, and so I would ask that we take into account the fact that insults say the most about what they say. Procedural proposal, Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't speak and give valuable judgment. But I was talking about the moral integrity of more than a decade of debate today. And none of the discussers who spoke were interrupted. Even now you haven't interrupted my predecessor, who had a procedural one, who was just as ghastly talking about what I was saying a minute or two ago. I didn't hurt anyone. I was talking about the moral integrity that you talked about ten hours ago and three debaters in front of me, and that's why I called. Unfortunately, with the content and text you spoke about today, unfortunately, you do not have a moral integrity about it today. At least today, those could be held back and be, as Mr. Chernač said, silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u267	I would ask that we, however, stop the insulting accusations and continue the debate. Mr. Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. I didn't get it before. All day long, I listened to discussions on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry to determine political responsibility due to the suspicion of clientism and so on for Mr Gregor Golobic. I am pleased that Mr Gregor Golobič was not 18 years old in 1948 because he would have been tried for another matter in this charge. Before that, I wanted to talk to you about this division of old and new Members, about the so-called cellophane pigeons flying through the air, and so on, and that's all I'd ask you to say, we're probably 15. On 10th 2008 we were given this mandate by everyone here to become Members and members of various commissions and bodies. And we can have the same position from then on. Not old, new, and old, but experienced, and transported miles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u269	Thank you. Mrs. Orazem has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you very much. After today's refusal to link the President of the State to the search for information in court, where it has actually turned out that the note was linked to the President of the Court and that Mrs Mojca is a member of the court, I would like to say that she is actually a sample and, in some ways, an indicative case in which she is actually building and forming an entire investigation act. Something's read somewhere, something's heard, something's planted, something's potent. I must say that after this case somehow fell, it was desirable to show that Mr Gregor Golobič does not actually want to participate in the debate in the National Assembly today, even though this option was given and enabled. I must say that we have reviewed the practice and found that the Government has never, at least after we have been able to review it in these few hours, participated in investigations into the acts of the investigative commission at this stage, as we are today. When, in fact, we are discussing how we are going to introduce such an investigative commission. And there would again be a mix of different branches of government and interlocking, which, of course, is also present in this act at all levels, as the National Assembly will become a tax administration, an inspectorate, an investigator of the origin of property, as has been said. This commission will intervene in other branches of government, which should do their job if anything is wrong. I think that this has also been a mistake today, and because the whole debate was actually allowed to pass the Rules of Procedure again by those who preside over the meeting. But because you'd probably listen to three hours of debate about someone not being allowed to talk about having a clue, etc. Some also spoke about some of the plastic pins that some animals have, etc. Yes, these were really very deep and meaningful and substantive discussions. But I think that we have, in the debate today, rejected everything that has been presented in some way. Last but not least, in her presentation, she presented all the insurance of so-called unsecured or poorly secured loans. I quoted all three credits and also said what these insurances are like one of the key weights on which it is based. However, this is overhearing, as is much more in the interest of some other goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I'd like to start right here where the Member of Parliament ended. One of the very important arguments and reasons for the establishment of this parliamentary commission of inquiry is that we have failed to obtain, not even the committee for the supervision of Parliament's public finances, i.e. the parliamentary financial supervision, arguments or credit insurance data that Gregor Golobič received from the bank in the main state ownership of the company. I got my hands on an anonymous woman who came to the media at the same time, probably the same source. This anonymity was the result, in fact, of a copy of the New Ljubljana Bank, to the Ultra Group of about €6 million of credit. The insurance is appropriate, nothing. It turns out from that anonymity that the loans weren't secured. There was an internal audit in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. And with the results of the internal audit, we were all made aware, and they were also made public. It is this that they have instituted prosecution against an unknown person who has released this information. There was nothing about data being inaccurate to be falsified. If these data were incorrect, the bank would have sent this message half an hour after receiving the anonymity to any media or anyone else. Because this information is, unfortunately, authentic, but it was a problem to deny it. So what? The Public Finance Supervisory Commission wanted to find out what was the rating of the Ultra Group, which led the New Ljubljana Bank to approve the loan. So, despite the fact that there was no insurance. For the New Ljubljana Bank, so explained to us on the committee, can do so if there are reasons for this. I could say very, very much, on a personal level for reasons. It could be someone's trust and so on. And here, according to my opinion, the political influence, the political power of Gregor Golobič, of course, was that the New Ljubljana Bank granted this loan. We, as the commission, have not been able to verify this and prove it because the bank has not sent us and referred, of course, to confidentiality and the parliamentary commission must be sent to it. That is why the parliamentary commission or this parliamentary oversight will be able to access this data and the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has raised suspicions or has indicated suspicions to law enforcement authorities, and I hope that this story will receive an epilogue within this parliamentary chamber, so I will be pleased to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u274	I regret that I have to spend this debate on things that I could discuss elsewhere, but Mrs Pečanova cannot from her own skin. I don't know what I deserve to be obsessed with me. I'm sure it'd be nice to talk about this once over coffee. What was actually said in this debate? Mrs Breda Pecan said to my performance: "One of the Members was accused of lying because it was not said that we must be quiet. Those exact words have been used and I ask you to be quiet or quiet," says Mrs Pečanova. But I have said it again, and I have also said it again, and I will now be the third time: "Secondly - in this regard, all members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have made their assets public and you can look at it on the SDS website. When your President Gregor Golobič does so and explains how he has reached several million euros and when he throws these papers on the table, then you will have the moral right to discuss us. Until then, shut up about it." That's what I said, with all right, I don't think you're taking it away from me, now thank God he's not in Mr Gantar's National Assembly right now, because he'd probably soon remind me not to talk about it, as I have done many times. And I've said it again, and now I've been saying it for the third time, and it's not true that I asked someone to be quiet, or that I even told him to keep it quiet. I said the matter exactly as it was written here. I also said that there is a need to separate important from irrelevant topics. For me, Mrs Pečanova, it is important why, when you were mayor, you allowed EUR 2.5 million of real estate to be sold in violation of the applicable law, without appreciation or without appropriate methods of sale. But that's what the Court of Auditors found out. That's how it was. I wonder if I would do it. I'd get a hundred complaints, and I'd get robbed of you a hundred times in the National Assembly. Indeed, before the elections she wrote on the poster on a large scale, the whole of Slovenia was full, €1.219.778 was paid last year by 46 members of the supervisory boards of five state-owned companies, which is almost a thousand average wages. True, at first sight there is no lie at all, but there is one grave manipulation. The annual amount with monthly salaries was compared. For these 46 members have paid as much as 42 years of average wages. Look, that's when this New Policy began to manipulate, lie, tease, which is what we are now witnessing immeasurably at this time. Regrettably, even today in the National Assembly, when we should discuss, through the debate on the establishment of this commission of inquiry, whether we are even capable of doing so politically unhygienically or not. I note that unfortunately you are not able to do what I repeat again, it is not only for you, in this case I am talking about Really, it is not only for the Government this bad, for the whole Government, because the President of the Government should draw the appropriate sequences, it is bad for the entire National Assembly and for the entire Slovenian policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr. Rozjej, please, you have a procedural proposal. But please, let's stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Chairman. In view of the debate that has now been held, this colleague of Visiak and formerly colleague of Gantar and colleague of Pecanov, I will now say in a language that is popular today, I have reason to believe that there are two types of magnetograms in the National Assembly, one for one side of Parliament, one for the other side of Parliament, because, on the basis of the discussions, I conclude that we are not reading the same things. Therefore, I propose that you chairmen check with the competent services if the National Assembly produces only one type of magnetogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u277	Well, Mr. Rose, that's an unrealistic suggestion. You can check it out yourself. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today I complained to one of the Members about today's debate, and he said to me, "You know, this is parliamentary democracy." Well, if that's the case, then I'll have to deal with it. Look, we, the new one, what any of us new thinks of you old people, every one of us knows. I will try to say this at the end of my brief debate. The investigation of the suspicion of clientelism and the corruption of the public function holder, and then we started to list: acquisition of public grants, tax evasion, acquisition of the status of the farmer - a very interesting matter, I did not know that it was so important - the incomplete presentation of the property and the origin - rather that someone lied; well, I agree with this that it was necessary to say - unpaid taxes, poorly secured loans obtained by the New Bank of Ljubljana, Ultri, and so on. These are the claims of those who have proposed that this investigation should also be initiated. I wonder if we have relevant institutions in this country to solve these problems. If we do not have them, then we can simply and simply say that we are not a legal country. On the other hand, there are advocates of a public function which is suspected of all these works and, of course, advocates of the one who is suspected of doing these works by those proponents. And they talk about other things that have happened in some distant or nearby history in a different way or way. You know, when a person thinks, then, in the end, on the basis of what has been said today, what is read in the newspapers, lastly in Magu, he can estimate that we are not doing anything else in this country than stealing. But it is true what I would like to say in the end that we, young people, if we can call ourselves that, at least I think that you, who have long been in here, know everything you are [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Do in the past what you do and what you do. [[...]] It would therefore be good if the Member's mandate were limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you. We've closed the debate. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Chamber on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the Parliamentary Chamber ordered a parliamentary inquiry to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of clienteleism and the corruption of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology of Mr Gregor Golobič in obtaining substantial public grants and public procurement for companies in the Ultra Group [[Urban City Card project, a system for tracking and controlling public bus companies Ljubljana passenger transport d.o.o., fictitious business of protecting Mercator d.d., e-mailing student food to the company Margento R&D d.o.o. etc]] in which Mr. Gregor Golobič co-ownered, and in transferring the area of electronic communications of the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in order to establish political responsibility for the suspicion that Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, has concealed taxes, unjustifiably acquired the status of farmer for the purchase of agricultural land, and to the competent authorities, he has failed to demonstrate his wealth status and origin, for the determination of the political responsibility of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology of Mr. Gregor Golobič for the suspicion of avoiding payment of taxes to the Republic of Slovenia, while actively cooperating in raising the tax burden on citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the determination of political responsibility due to the suspicion of clientism and the corruption of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology of Mr. Gregor Golobič for the acquisition of poorly secured loans to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the suspicion of clientism of the Group of Ultra. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to: First time. In order to establish the political responsibility to clarify the actual property situation of the Minister of Higher Education, the science and technology of Mr Gregor Golobič, and in particular the origin of this property. There is a suspicion that Mr Gregor Golobič did not report all the assets to the Anti-Corruption Commission, as, in addition to the seemingly economic company or fair surrender of Ultra Sum from Amsterdam, through which he co-owned companies in the Ultra Group, co-owner of two additional mail drawers in the Netherlands, handed over the post office in the Singapore tax haven and other real and financial assets. Another time. To clarify whether Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, acted clientially and corruptly when companies from the Ultra Group obtained very high amounts of non-refundable state aid from the Ministry of the Economy and even from the Ministry of Education, and that the area of electronic communications, business interest or the operation of companies from the Ultra Group, from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, led by Mr Gregor Golobič, was transferred. Third time. To clarify whether Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, acted clientially and corruptly in obtaining businesses in the Ultra Group with state and public companies, as well as with local communities and with the country [[Urban City Card project, the system for the latter and supervision of public bus companies Ljubljana passenger transport d.o.o., fictitious business of protecting Mercator d.d., electronicisation of student diet, to be carried out by Margento R&D d.o.o. and so on]] . Fourth time. In order to establish the political responsibility to clarify whether the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič, allegedly established foreign virtual companies or post office collectors abroad and transactions between him and the companies of the Ultra Group or the Temple Holding Group in Slovenia, avoided paying taxes to the Republic of Slovenia. Fifth. In view of the determination of the political responsibility to clarify how the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič, came to share in the companies of the Ultra Group, either as a gift or as a purchase, or in any other way, and whether this did not result in tax evasion. Its political responsibility must also be clarified in the fact that, as a holder of a public function, it participates in raising the tax burdens on its citizens, and by setting up imaginary companies or postal collectors abroad and similar tax machinations to the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the determination of political responsibility, Mr Gregor Golobič also clarified how and in what way the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology acquired the status of a farmer, so that in 1999 he could buy a farm property, the purchase of which was allowed only to farmers by the applicable agricultural land law at the time. Six. In order to clarify whether the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič, has taken advantage of his political position or acted corruptly when the companies of Ultra, the co-owner of which was granted unprotected or inadequately secured loans granted by the NLB d.d., which is the bank in majority state ownership. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry is: the investigation should cover the suspicion of clienteleism, corruption, concealment of the actual property and the origin of the property, the acquisition of unlawful property benefits and other benefits, and avoidance of taxes, including the illegal one, the Minister for Higher Education Science and Technology and the President of the political party, Mr Gregor Golobic. The investigation should also cover the suspicion of clientism and the corruption of Mr Gregor Golobič for obtaining poorly secured loans granted by NLB d.d., which is owned by the majority state, for an enterprise in the Ultra Group. The investigation is to focus on the period since 1996 when the former LDS leader Mr. Borut Razdevšek is to be appointed Head of the profitable GSM project in Mobil, and all the work in setting up the GSM network is to be transferred to Ultro d.o.o. Road Oton Župančič 23.a, Zagorje, the owner of which is supposed to be members and sympathizers of LDS, is now mostly the party of Zares. One of the co-owners was also the President of Zares and Minister of Government of Borut Pahor Mr Gregor Golobič, who was supposed to recognise the co-ownership of the public only after he was caught on the lie. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of the right to be tried without undue delay. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u280	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay. The text before you today is a complementary text of the bill and is indeed a proactive step by the Government in terms of the functioning of the State in the field of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular ensuring the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay as set out in Article 23 of the Constitution of Slovenia and also the Convention's right to a trial within the reasonable time laid down in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In the opinion of the Government, the proposed amendments will further strengthen the implementation of the current law, notably in the area of the definition of stepping up measures to enable tangible acceleration in the resolution of judicial backlogs in specific judicial proceedings. As already stated in the explanation of the law, this is a proactive addition to the law adopted in 2006 and which has already passed the test at the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg as effective and appropriate, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, the established system for the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay. However, the proposed amendments only strengthen its functioning and complement existing legal solutions in line with the standards achieved in this area. Let me mention in particular the following from the substantive solutions. The law further shares the powers or obligations of the Presidents of the Courts to provide a more substantive explanation of their decision in cases where they are considering the use of accelerant remedies, and to determine whether a specific case needs to be expedited. This, on the one hand, increases the responsibility of the judiciary and, on the other hand, strengthens the legitimacy and transparency of these procedures, all with a view to protecting the parties as clearly as possible and protecting their rights to a fair trial within a reasonable time. The legal basis or legal title for the exercise of just satisfaction is also extended. This right is now an extension of matters that are decided in extraordinary legal proceedings, and not only to cases that end with a judicial judgment. This broadens the scope of the rights protected and in fact strengthens the protection of the parties in judicial proceedings. Finally, let me mention that the proposed solutions provide for and allow for a more precise linkage between the provisions of the current law, which means a better internal system of law. This means greater transparency and greater clarity in the provisions of the law. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly shall be 30. 6. Several amendments have been adopted in 2009 which, I believe, have made substantial progress in the quality of this text, in particular in the sense of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And I think that by adopting such a text, both to the parties and to the courts which will decide on the right of trial within a reasonable time frame, more efficient work will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u282	Thank you very much. As has already been said, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this law at its 6th session, on 30 June 2009. The proposer shall be the Government and the College of the President of the National Assembly shall determine the reduced procedure. On the Committee, we had the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State, the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Council of Justice. In the supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposer said what we had just heard from the Secretary of State. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of their comments were taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition. However, the representative of the Council of State supported the law. The Committee adopted, without discussion, amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11, as well as to Article 8 of the SDS. However, he did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2 and 3, but did not vote on the amendment to Article 4, as it became irrelevant. The Committee then voted on the draft text as a whole and also adopted it. The text of the law is attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u283	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Given the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay and the Convention's right to a trial within a reasonable time, the Slovenian People's Party's Group would be most pleased when the protection of the rights to a trial without undue delay would not be necessary. However, since the situation in the judiciary has led to this situation, that we have huge judicial backlogs and that there is virtually no citizen to reach judgment within a reasonable time frame, such a law is necessary. We can only be comforted by the fact that this law is one of the more effective laws governing the way human rights are exercised and protected. Of course, we cannot oppose the new law because it offers even more clearly defined legal means to ensure that the parties to the proceedings are able to terminate the unnecessary postponement of the courts in their decision-making. It is therefore a matter of strengthening the right and position of the parties to the proceedings under this law. The obligations of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the courts of other stages are also clearly defined when deciding on accelerant remedies. However, even if we support this proposal for a law, let me stress that, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we want a more effective judiciary, a trial without undue delay and a judgment within a reasonable time. We therefore want a more efficient system of justice, in which it will not be possible for a person to be detained for years, and then the process of procedural errors falls and the country is threatened with payment of enormous damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u286	Well, hello, all of you. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay in the Liberal Democracy Club. The constitutional right to a trial without undue delay or the right to a trial within a reasonable time is one of the most important human rights. Depending on the speed of the trial in specific cases before a court, it may be the specific fate of a person who has been illegally dismissed in an undertaking whose debtors do not pay their bills, property ownership, inheritance rights and so on. Therefore, we must all strive to resolve matters before the courts where disputes between people and disputes between the country and people are resolved as quickly as possible. From this point of view, we welcome the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay proposed by the Government and support the proactive functioning of the Government in this area, as this will allow more concrete action in specific cases before the courts to accelerate the resolution of disputes. The Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay of 2006, which was adopted as a reaction by our country to the well-known judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Lukend v Slovenia, has proved to be in practice an appropriate law, as confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights. However, since its adoption, it has been a really good three years and it is appropriate for the National Assembly to address the issue of whether any legal improvements are needed in order to make the law even more effective in terms of the rights of parties to judicial proceedings to a faster trial. The proposed law makes such improvements, in particular with regard to further detailing the decision of the Presidents of the Courts when they decide on complaints by persons and legal persons due to the length of the proceedings, and we therefore support them. There is also increased responsibility for the functioning of the judiciary on the part of the judicial branch itself. As long as it is more detailed, perhaps too detailed, formalisations in the proposal for a Court Reporting Act allow for detailed traceability of the reasons for outstanding cases, not only formal reporting on the dates of hearings, cancellations and the like. From this point of view, we are also pleased that the proposed law clearly corresponds to a significant majority in the National Assembly, as has also been shown at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice on 30 June 2009, when the proposal for a law was unanimously adopted and it has proved to us that we do not care about the fate of the people whose disputes are resolved by the Slovenian courts, especially in view of the current economic situation in Slovenia and around the world. However, I certainly believe that the final objective of the Slovenian State must be to remove judicial backlogs at some reasonable time and that this is the duty of all of us who are in favour of the rule of law. And in the case, or in the future, when this is achieved and we will no longer need this law, whose changes and additions we are dealing with today, since in almost all cases trials will be carried out quickly, without delay. Otherwise, it is not the only solution to achieve the objective of a rapid trial only by systemic reduction and, at the end of the process, the resolution of judicial backlogs in order to eliminate the problem of lengthy trials can also contribute to the long-term implementation of various forms of alternative dispute resolution, in particular mediation. In view of the current situation, when it has not yet been finally reached in Slovenia, that the predominant standard in the proceedings before the courts should be a fair trial within a reasonable time, this bill is clearly necessary and benefits all parties seeking justice in court and defending themselves against charges and lawsuits. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u288	Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased to see the adoption of the law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay, which has been applied since 1 January 2007. We agree that in two years of implementation of the law it would be appropriate to examine whether it can be improved and provided with more guarantees for its successful implementation. We estimate that the proposed changes are going in that direction, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We therefore have before us a new law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay prepared by the Ministry of Justice. The proposed amendment and additions justify the need for some improvements to the existing law. The reasons for adoption explicitly stress that this is not a major substantive correction and that the existing law is a good one. So that law, prepared by former Minister Lovro Šturm in response to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Lukend v Republic of Slovenia, regulates the manner in which the constitutional right to a trial is exercised and protected without undue delay as referred to in Article 23(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia and the Convention's rights to a trial within a reasonable time and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Ministry of Justice's direction that changes are needed to avoid possible ambiguities in the application of the law at principle level is of course not wrong, since it is a law through which one of the fundamental human rights is exercised, that is the right to judicial protection. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, after a detailed review of the legislative text of the proposed amendments, we find that it is only cosmetic corrections that are unnecessary in most cases and do not contribute in any way to legal certainty or to strengthening the protection of human rights. And so it seems that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice, with this amendment to the law that does not actually bring anything concrete, can't, in fact, give priority to the ministry. For example, we are concerned about the recent decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Shelih’s marriage proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia that there are no effective legal procedures in Slovenia to determine health errors. This is an important issue, which also concerns the protection of human rights. Let me point out that, with regard to the proposed amendments to the bill with the proposer, it is a matter of agreeing on one point, namely that the existing law is a good one. We differ only in the assessment of whether a good law really needs to be changed on the nose, even if we know that this government could deal with significantly more important matters, for example how to improve the position of individuals in the context of the situation we are currently in. We are also of the opinion that extending the text and explaining it with additional sentences does not constitute any added value, especially after unnecessary complication, a firm and clear text of the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that simplification and standardisation of judicial proceedings must be achieved, which will result in a reduction in judicial proceedings. We will support the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We warn, however, that they do not actually bring any added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although it can happen that my debate will not contribute any added value to these debates that you have heard so far, let me still steal you another minute. We have already heard that the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement was adopted without undue delay also because of the Lukenda case against Slovenia, due to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and the law in force, as has already been said, is sometimes overemphasized, is good and successful. There are also some uncertainties in practice, so this proposal for a law before us wants to be abolished. It is a matter of solutions of a proactive and preventive nature, in particular, this proposal now divides the powers or obligations of the Presidents of the Courts in a way that gives detailed and substantive judgement in cases of recourse to accommodating remedies, whether there has been an unjustified long resolution of the client's case. Therefore, the responsibility of the courts to make the most of these accelerant decisions is increasing. The liability of lawyers is also increased by provisions on the verification of the powers of a lawyer in cases of trial or the determination of fair satisfaction. The widespread basis for the exercise of fair satisfaction is now extended to decisions taken in the case with exceptional remedies and not only to decisions of the court reached in the ordinary proceedings. The bill does not contain any systemic interference with the existing law. It is a matter of building up an existing law to further strengthen the level of protection of human rights to a trial without undue delay. For all the reasons listed in this article, we will truly support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u294	Mr Vice-President, Mr State Secretary with fellow Members, Members and Members. The position of the parliamentary group to supplement the law on the protection of the rights to trial without undue delay. The law on the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay is certainly a very important act for all parties to judicial proceedings in the Republic of Slovenia, since all of them are subject to the constitutional right referred to in Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution to a trial without undue delay and to the right referred to in Article 6, paragraph 1, of the European Convention on Human Rights to a trial within a reasonable time. The judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Lukend case of October 2005 was crucial for the adoption of this law in 2006, although it has repeatedly been pointed out by our Constitutional Court. In short, the Republic of Slovenia reacted very quickly to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, and a law was adopted that fully regulated the area. This law does not mean the complete elimination of the problem of judicial backlogs in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is part of the Lukend programme, which aims to eliminate the latter. However, according to our assessment and assessment of experts, it is a good law, the essential purpose of which is to ensure the effective protection of the rights of the parties in specific judicial proceedings, where the courts have decided for too long without a reasonable reason, in practice, that its individual decisions are inconclusive and unclear to the extent that they require the amendment of the basic law. The proposal of the novel, which we are considering, does not only affect the structure, but also the concept of the basic provisions to this extent in order to substantially change the internal system of the law. It is therefore a matter of additions that aim at greater clarity of the provisions for the parties themselves, as they are generally and often the right of ignorance. To the proposed so-called corrections or improvements to the basic law, such as a more precise definition of the powers and obligations of the Presidents of the courts, an increase in the responsibilities of lawyers, a more precise composition of the chronology of the resolution of specific cases by the courts, an extension of the basis for the exercise of fair satisfaction and, secondly, we will contribute to our votes in order to define more clearly the rules of procedure both the parties and the courts and, above all, the more effective protection of the constitutional rights legally exercised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u296	Dear Mr Vice President, the distinguished one is present. The law protecting the right to a trial without undue delay is one of the measures taken to exercise the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay. To this end, the relevant novelties are also being adopted, which will be supported by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, but we feel that they will not have the desired effects. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, more radical measures should be taken to ensure the protection of the right to a trial without undue delay. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose: the abolition of a permanent judicial mandate and the introduction of an 8-year-old, because many judges are doing their job poorly or not at all. There are even cases that raise doubts about the fairness and correctness of judicial decisions. As a result of an unlimited permanent mandate, judges can afford many things because they realize that they are more protected than endangered species. The limitation of the duration of the judicial mandate would contribute to a more qualitative, efficient, impartial and fair trial. The European Court of Human Rights has so far found that in more than 200 cases the Republic of Slovenia has violated human rights arising from the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The consequences of the misdemeanour of many Slovenian judges and courts are paid by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, while judges who have violated human rights through unreasonable delay of trials do not bear any consequences and continue peacefully with their misdemeanour. We are convinced that the judge should achieve excellent work results in order to extend the permanent judicial function and that they are doing their work quickly, effectively and honestly. We also propose the introduction of equality in judicial and parliamentary immunity. Judges, unlike Members, enjoy both procedural and material immunity. Finally, we propose taking into account the effectiveness of the work of judges and prosecutors. The Slovenian judiciary is determined by two constants: the rise of judicial backlogs and the non-recognition of its own guilt. Any infringements of the principle to be brought before a court within a reasonable time may be identified from the operative number of the case in the Republic of Slovenia and the responsible judge or judge who caused or enabled the infringement. In the context of "twining the project", it was found to be the mentality of the judges, the latter dealing mainly with the issue of maintaining privileges and material position, the one that prevents the development and expertise of the judiciary in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u297	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, within half an hour of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 9.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u298	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, secretary of state, minister! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda - Mandate-voluntary matters. Under this item, the assembly will also consider the appointment of candidates who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, become Members for the remainder of the term of office instead of Members who have ceased their term of office. Having terminated the mandate of Alexander Ravnikar for his death, the State Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly the finding that the MP's mandate had gone to the Magi. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar. The findings were addressed by the Commission of Mandate, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly, and received the report on the bench. The National Election Commission also forwarded to the assembly the finding that, following the termination of the term of office, Mr Ivo Viglu, who had become an MEP from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, had passed his mandate to Tadej Slapnik. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The mandate of the Magi shall be confirmed. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, born September 7, 1956, residing in Kamnik, Travel to Dobrava 17. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: Confirm the mandate of Tade Slapnik, born on 17 October 1973, resident in Slovenian Konjice, Gubčeva 8. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. My fellow Member, Juliano Bizjak Mlakar and Tadej Slapnik, I invite you to join us and meet with their parliamentary bench. I want my colleague and my colleague to feel good about themselves and to be a Member or Member of Parliament. [[Let's hear it.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the amendment of the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I vote. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the Day - Defence Bill on the Ratification of the Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I vote. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Period of the day - defensively proposing a law on the ratification of the cassette shoots convention. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Would you like to speak with the rapporteur, Mr. Anton Anderlich? Please, I give the floor to Anton Anderlich to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u299	Respectable. It may seem to someone that this is another routine matter, as we like to do in ratifications, but this is a specific matter in this cruel world, and on 11 July 2007, the National Assembly, at the initiative of the two Presidents of the Austrian Parliament and the Norwegian Parliament, adopted a declaration on the limitation of cluster munitions. Unfortunately, that declaration was a little 'complicated', and later a broader agreement was reached between countries, and 94 countries adopted a Convention on the Prohibition of the Production, Use and Use of Cluster Munitions. Unfortunately, the biggest ones involved in production and trade do not join these decisions and, in some ways, there was such an atmosphere in this National Assembly in 2007. As it is said, at this time, many things have changed in the world. Casket munitions are the most dangerous to civilians. Let us recall from 1991, that is, on our soil, and from some of the cases later on in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, as well as the wider world, what this cluster munitions means especially for the civilian population. The Committee supported, normally, this convention, by proposing to the Government, with two conclusions, it restored them, in fact, because it was already adopted here on 11 July 2007 that our government and our Parliament should simply be carried out. For the first time, to draft a prohibition law, to adopt a convention and to commit ourselves to something is something that is not in force. Therefore, if other countries can and prohibit in their territory and for their armies and other prohibitions on the full possession and use of this ammunition in general, it is only right that we do so in Slovenia. The National Assembly has already adopted this decision, the Government of the former or present, has not yet prepared it, and I believe that this decision of the Committee will come to fruition. And secondly, Slovenia owns 1080 pieces of cluster munitions, they store them in some places, I don't know where, and they set a transitional period of 8 years, they have a deadline after the convention. And in the good four, five, six years they were supposed to do it at home. The Committee unanimously agreed that the Government should ensure that we destroy immediately all cluster munitions we have nothing to use. However, it should not be used for any purpose after the Geneva Conventions and all others. As it is said, the Committee proposes to the assembly to support this convention, and the Government has proposed two conclusions that I think are very important; and action is important, although we are small in this great story, but here I think we can do at least these two steps that I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u300	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Anton Anderlich has applied. [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to 26 points of the agenda - to a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights in connection with biomedicine in relation to genetic testing for health purposes. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. He was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the second reading did not adopt any amendments, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On behalf of the Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue of the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on economic cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - TO AVAILATE THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE WORDS OF THE TREATY LISTS, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT ON TRAINING, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE LAW ON ECONOMIC SOCIETIES, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE POLICE TEXT. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Travel Documents Act." We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 3. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the purified text of the Aliens Act." We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 3. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Company Act." We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, 78 of them voted against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Police Act." We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 80 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2009-2015. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to chapter five. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to chapter five. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, for whom 72 votes against 4. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2009-2015 as a whole. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 3. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the resolution is fully adopted. This concludes exactly the agenda. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of management and supervisory authorities during the financial and economic crisis under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, and I would like to point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 is irrelevant, this is the amendment of the SD, Really, LDS, DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. It's 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. I would like to point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two is irrelevant, this is the amendment of the SD Group of Members, Really, LDS, DeSUS to Article 13. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 13. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. The draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds in the framework of the regular procedure. No amendments to the draft law have been adopted by the labour force, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. It's 81 votes against no one. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, i.e. the third reading of the bill on payment services and systems under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Non-materialised Securities, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on the supplementation of the Income Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u301	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we introduced this law in order to clarify the ambiguity that causes the problem of taxation, which happened both last year and this year. And in order to avoid these problems, we believe that it would be right for Members and Members to adopt this law. We have also received the support of the Ministry of Agriculture from the Committee on Agriculture, where we have addressed this issue, which has also sought to resolve these concerns this year and was then also coordinated in the area of finance this year. In order to avoid that each year the employees of the Ministry of Finance should resort to such and different interpretations of the law, we propose that we adopt such a law in order to resolve this ambiguity. That is why we will support this and also urge the other Members to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Let me first warn my colleagues that the decision is negative. It means that those of us who are in favour of adopting the Income Law must vote against the absence of any confusion. You know why? Because some artists can write such suggestions that they do not know what they have written in the end; this is clearly evident. [[The ad in the hall.]] Well, no comment, please. The government has objected to this proposal on the State Council. Then the Government did not object to this proposal at the meeting of the parent working body. And then, because the coalition within the Government cannot be agreed, they opposed themselves at the meeting of the parent working body and once again opposed the proposal they had already supported. So this, for the first time, is not serious, and we cannot take this ambiguity just like this: on the Council - against, on the home body of the Government - for, representatives of the government against the decision of their own government. Now, remember! I think the proposal is correct. And those who have been to all these meetings and listened to all these nebulos will, of course, vote against the proposed decision that the Income Law is not suitable for further consideration, because it is one of the many laws that the Government promises to build, one of 37 or more already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u304	Thank you very much. The assembly votes on the proposal of the home labour body, which is supposed to become a proposal for a conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 34. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Risk Capital Companies, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13.7.2009. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1, and I would point out that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really to Article 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 6. (The vote was 66.)(against 6.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the amended law, and I therefore ask qualified applicants whether you intend to table an amendment under this Article. They don't intend to. Therefore, I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing everyone that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. (For the vote was 78.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the right to pay social security contributions to self-employed domestic and art craftsmen. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a peacock law to pay social security contributions to self-employed workers in domestic and art trade is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u305	Thank you very much. This is one of the laws that means to many people a way out of a difficult situation, a way out of the crisis. On the one hand, it allows many people to re-enter the home and art trades of the crisis and the solution for the family. This also means that the country would pay approximately five times less than the cost of unemployment compensation, and I think that the State should systematically encourage all those who have come [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u306	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u307	who have come to the employment office to find their own way out of the crisis with the craftsmanship they have. [[...]] On the other hand, this assistance also means protecting our domestic and artistic trades, our national specialities, our cultural heritage, by which we differ from other nations. I believe that this national specificity should be maintained. It should be known that in the 10 years, the number of domestic and art craft producers fell by one third, that there were only a few more than 300 of them, not because they would be unfair competitors to anyone, but because they are victims of unfair competition because they are victims of cheap products from China and other Eastern European countries. I believe that the country should have so much understanding and judgment to help preserve this tradition, our particularity, and, as I said before, allow people who come to the unemployment facility to find their own way out and solve the problem themselves, not as it is now, for the country to solve it instead of everyone. I suggest you support this bill. However, I must also say that a similar solution applies to self-employed people in culture, and if we have found there a possibility to stimulate and pay contributions to architects and similar cultures, then it is all the more important to support people working with their hands, simple tools that cannot work products that are high-tech, but are our own and come from our history and can also represent an important element of expanding our cultural offer and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Jakob Preseknik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Group of Members will support the proposal of that Act. We know that in Slovenia many professions, old professions are failing and in some ways they need to be helped. That's one reason. The second reason is that the tourist offer of souvenirs and other matters is becoming more and more so. Many times it is extremely problematic because of these facts, because there is no stimulating production of various souvenirs, tourist monuments, it is also necessary to sort out the matter in some way, it is necessary to support it. So given that in the broad debate here there has been a point of inadequacy that a number of things should have been defined differently - we agree. We agree with this, as it is a first-reading matter at the end of the day, and in the second-reading, all these things can also be settled. It is also about the self-employment of individuals in today’s situation, when many jobs, unfortunately, are failing, and in this area a number of self-employment is possible. Not to mention other reasons, because I am also being pursued by time, the parliamentary group, as it is said, will support this law and I am sure that it can also be corrected in some parts for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u310	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 41. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u311	Thank you very much. The government does not miss the possibility of mentioning that the Guarantee Scheme Act is one of the basic measures by which it has released the so-called credit crunch, but the facts best borne by economic operators are different. Loans, including those with the State guarantee, are either expensive or inaccessible and the latest survey among craftsmen, published by the Trade magazine, said that about 80% of craftsmen are either of the opinion that credit is not available at all or that access to credit is difficult. The new law that we wanted to limit the activities of banks in a time of economic and financial crisis in the Slovenian Democratic Party is the primary purpose of banks dealing mainly with what is the biggest problem today. This is the provision of money for the economy of activity, i.e. for investments, for revolving assets, for development purposes, but not for various ownership consolidations, acquisitions and the like. That is why we have proposed that those banks that are in the guarantee scheme receiving these reinforcements by the State are so strengthened that they do not engage in reprogramming or approval of new loans for purposes that do not increase economic activity. In a situation where we have a credit crunch when the economy faces a lack of credit, we need to communicate and give clear priorities by the country to the financial sector. And that's the basic purpose of the law. I am afraid that most credit activities related to ownership consolidations, acquisitions and management buy-backs will limit these loans to others, who are still needed and who would contribute to greater economic activity. Finally, Eurostat has also reported the fall of gross domestic product in Slovenia, one of the most drastic in the European Union and the euro area, far below the average of European countries, we are increasing the development backlog, but not shrinking as we have seen in recent years. Therefore, this is an important measure to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] increased economic activity and increased activities of banks. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u313	The story of this bill is quite simple. We want businesses to relieve unnecessary administration. In fact, companies are now paying a number of obligations to the State through various payment orders, some of the obligations to the ZPIZU, the Institute of Health Insurance, the tax authorities and so on. With this proposal, we would like to make it practical for businesses to settle all obligations to the country with one single account and to pay off later from this single account others, both funds and the state budget through taxes. So, according to our assessment, this measure would not have any serious financial implications for the budget, but it would have had a huge impact in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises drowning in these bureaucratic tasks over and over again. I believe that in these small companies, there is a pool of human resources, a developer, an accountant, as well as the one at the end who works, and those who go after themselves. And any relief from these people, on whom we are betting heavily at the time of this crisis, is welcome. That is why this law is also worthy of support, and we will support it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u314	Thank you very much. An explanation in your own name? Please, Mr. Tanko, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I know that the thing is already a little funny, a little comical, when the good suggestions of the Slovenian Democratic Party fall down like that. However, in this case, I feel the need to say that if we are paying contributions, let's say from salary, Slovenian average gross wages when an entrepreneur pays this, it pays nine contributions: four from salary and four from salary. Of these nine positions, they are at four amounts lower than the commission's cost. This is said to mean that self-employed persons must pay more for the commission, such as the contribution, say, for parental protection or the contribution of the employment agency and so on. The situation is paradoxical, and I think it makes sense that not only we, as proposers, but also others, support a solution that actually means some administrative progress, which means about 10 million costs less per year for those who pay these bills and this budget to the state costs absolutely nothing. This fully burdens the bank's income and would simply avoid these things as paradoxical situations when the amounts at the positions are lower than the bank's commissions. I suggest you support this law, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u316	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act is suitable for further consideration." An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Franci Bogovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u317	We support the proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act. Today we see that the voting machine is very smooth. I hope not in this case. We also know the Government's explanation, which opposes acceptance by reasoning that it will itself ensure that these laws are regulated as with everyone else. But this is precisely why, from the practical cases that we have in the field where we also deal with real life. In the Krske field, we want to compress about 1,000 hectares of agricultural land, because we did not get 80% of the consent, we divided the area into four areas. We're in one area now at 80%, and we're at three between 70% and 80%. That is why such an easy-to-think and in some ways agreed vote sometimes has little to do with real life, and I hope that it will not be too much for the coalition to support it as well. For a lot of commotion could have started earlier, because I am afraid, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I am not yet familiar with the amendment of this law and I do not know when you intend to transfer it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u318	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u319	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be very pleased to support the proposal for a law that we have also tabled. I'm just going to give you a few reasons or at least one of the key reasons why we decided to file this law. As you know, all data show that the fragmentation and smallness of farms in Slovenia is extremely critical, as also noted by agricultural experts and farmers who face this problem in practice. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of many initiatives, we have decided to propose to the National Assembly the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, which seeks to bring into line with the Law on the regulation of premises in the field of comassation, by proposing an easier introduction of the comassation procedure. A proposal for the introduction of a commotion procedure may be tabled if the Commission agrees with the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 67% of the land area in the envisaged area of comassation. This law is also supported by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Agricultural Lands, which regulates easier and, above all, a more lively regime for the introduction of the commotion procedure. Above all, I think it is important to stress the following. There was much discussion in the National Assembly about the fact that this law was incomplete and that this law did not cover all that must be resolved in this law. Nevertheless, it seems important to me to emphasise that this law has been proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why it has also been tabled. Those who are burdened by this problem expect the adoption of this law as soon as possible. We have therefore decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to propose this law. I am sure that all parliamentary groups will also support this law, because this law is indeed written on the skin of those who are burdened by this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u321	Thank you for your word. I want to say that we will reject this bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Of course, these are very simple and clear reasons. On the contrary, if the applicants had tabled the law after a reduced procedure, they would have believed that it was a wish to see this problem initiated as soon as possible. Thus, we find that we are at first reading today and that further consideration is to be carried out only in September, October. Until then, there will certainly be a government proposal for a law that will not only reduce the percentage of those who can, or agree to, apply for a commotion procedure, but will also facilitate a number of administrative obstacles to the implementation of the commotion procedure itself below. Therefore, if we really want to help people unite their parcels, then this law must be rejected and taken into account the Government's proposal, which ensures that not only a smaller percentage will there be smaller administrative obstacles to the introduction of the comassation. If this proposal were to be adopted, the Government should, of course, wait until it is first considered in the autumn and then, of course, it comes with other solutions, which would in any case exceptionally extend the procedures for the execution of the Commission. I would like to reiterate once again that it is very appropriate for this law to be rejected and introduced, of course, to adopt as soon as possible a government proposal for a law that will truly define the whole process in an effective manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Alan Bukovnik has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will not support the bill myself, so I will vote against it for the main reason, because in my debate, which I had at the time of the agenda, I have not in any way denied the right to propose laws as I have been told in the response of the applicant and I would point out once again. When preparing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Government found that it would be appropriate and appropriate to consider and prepare the Law on Agricultural Lands at the same time and that it has also done so. And there's something else I'd like to warn you. You know, when students prepare diplomas and other documents, and they copy some data, they also write the source from where they copied it. It would probably be good for the proposer to write a source in the coming period when he proposed such laws. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u324	Please don't argue with the other side because it's an explanation for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u325	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u326	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. Please. And I also warn you that it is not to be disputed with the opposite views, but to explain its voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u327	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I didn't mean to embalm it. All I'm saying is that I'm going to support this bill. But we're witnessing a strange manner today, to say the least. A number of laws have already been passed by the opposition, where it has been said: because the government has said in particular, and the coalition has said that otherwise it agrees that this part of the law is good, but a system law is being prepared. And that. It is obvious that it is being invested in the normal procedure as a first reading. We have passed the Act amending the Income Act by means of a reduced procedure. We could save this part of the income today, and the changes to the Income Act would be done. And then some system law, which would be later, would just solve maybe other things. So this argument, why is it being invested in the normal procedure, why not in the short term, is not true. As it is said, it is necessary, as with - for the last time, to point out problems in multi-housing facilities, to maintain multi-housing facilities where it is not possible to achieve complete democracy if I use this word, and with a smaller percentage of the owner's consent, certain procedures must be carried out. That is why I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u328	Voice explanation, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u329	Thank you so much for saying that. The general discussion under the Rules of Procedure is intended to address the principles, objectives and main solutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u330	Comrade Tanko, explanation of voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u331	Proposal for a law. [[...]] It is said that we are primarily talking about whether this bill meets these criteria. And I am sure that all of our proposals to all the positions of the Government that we have dealt with follow exactly in that they have the right solutions, that the objectives are right. The only problem is that the proposaler is not the right one. As for the government's proposal to come. Yesterday or Friday, we heard three dates in the debate. It has been said that the Government will submit a law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u332	Dear colleague Tanko, this is a controversy with the government that cannot answer. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u333	No, I'm just saying what we heard. That the government would propose the law at the end of August, that is what Mr Sayovic said. Then Mr Weber said they would do it in early September. The government's representative said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u334	Comrade Tanko, you don't explain your voice, but you do sum up other people's debates. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u335	Earlier, the president of the Committee on Agriculture had said that he had not seen this law at all. [[...]] And I suggest that we support what we have on the table and that we meet with the other solutions later. However, it is true or not that at a lower quorum, it is said, at a lower level of consent, the procedures are complicated. If, with 80% of the consensus, the procedures can somehow fail, 67% of the consensus will probably be even faster. I propose that you also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection under the ordinary procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Society in the framework of the shorter procedure.We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 and recall that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment will become an amendment under the number 2 of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really irrelevant. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really to this Article 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 29. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our consideration of the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. They don't intend to. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 76 votes against 3. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on a specific allowance for socially disadvantaged persons in the context of an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. Seven. 2009 By Article 4, we turn to the decision of the SDS Group to Article 4. Explanation on behalf of the Štefan Tisel Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u337	Dear Mr President, everyone in attendance is respected. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the law, as well as this amendment, which speaks of this supplement being paid four times in a row, explaining that the parties to the coalition have written in their coalition agreement to provide pensioners with the lowest pensions of €60 million in one year. While this social allowance for groups with the lowest income or income in the family or for individuals who do not exceed 60 and 70% of the lowest net salary in the country, this supplement amounts to EUR 15 million. So if we are already targeting these groups on the verge of survival, we are proposing that this be paid in four months in a row, so that we are somehow approaching this coalition agreement. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment as well as the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u338	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? SD? Excuse me? Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u339	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The SD Group of Members of Parliament will not support the amendment, but will support the law. The law speaks of a special allowance for socially disadvantaged persons and speaks of a single payment of aid. The SDS proposal, however, speaks of this aid being made available four times and in some ways prejudges something that is not the purpose of the law. The fact is that the coalition contract contains the amount, but with the emphasis that it is within realistic options. We know that the real possibilities of the country have increased considerably at this time, so the aid we are giving to a group of socially disadvantaged people, which is significantly broader than that enshrined in the coalition treaty, is a suitable measure that we are giving to the socially disadvantaged. In addition, I would mention that the Government is also aware that the minimum social security threshold needs to be re-examined, that it is preparing a new assessment of the cost of living as well as a change in the system legislation that will fully address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u340	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u341	Thank you very much. However, I must explain my voice, i.e. with the amendment and the "yes" law. But things are not that simple, especially because it has to be said that it was - why I intend to vote so - because it was the goal of the coalition. That is why I intend to vote in this way, and yet the coalition today, by this amendment or by law, gives four times more people four times less money. It means 8 times less than promised. Well, the poor are gone - not since this power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u343	Dear President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will be very pleased to support the amendment we have tabled. I think that this amendment follows the intent of this law and improves the proposal of the law, especially for the following reasons. If the Slovenian Democratic Party agreed to a bill, those receiving 80 euros of aid would receive a month's allowance of 6.6 euros. I do not know if there are any Members and Members in the National Assembly who would not join my opinion and have said that this is a complete mockery of citizens and citizens. 6.6 euros a month! When this government irritated oil derivatives, when this government irritated tolls, when we talk about increasing the salaries of judges by 25 to 28%, not to mention deleted and their decisions, damages and so on. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled this amendment in order that people will actually get at least some of what this government and this coalition had promised before the elections. However, she promised something essential, as she now does in practice. It certainly did not promise to give 6,6 euros per month to the person receiving this supplement. People live 12 months a year and receive income 12 months a year. Mr. Secretary has told me that this is a one-month supplement. But people live a year, not just a month. That's why we proposed this amendment. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u344	Thank you very much. I request applications for explanations of vote in my own name. Voice explanation, mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will not support this amendment of the SDS for a simple reason, because it shows false solidarity with the poor, because these same drafters of the amendment have adopted and supported the Social Transfer Act, which took at least 30,000 pensioners not nearly €6 but €150 at about the annual level, some for the third time since 2006 and some for the last two times in this year and all in the next year. This is said to be the case with some law, so that all of a sudden we can make nice and solidarity with those who don't, but those who are on the brink of poverty, because they've gone just a few cents below or the limit that's prescribed for a one-year supplement. As a result, it is impossible to accept the demagogic footnote on how to pay this supplement four times in one year with money that is nowhere to be paid. And you, ladies and gentlemen, know exactly what you're doing. We are in a serious crisis, there is no money, but you would give, and there is only a gold hour missing, and there is something else to offer generously; when you spoke of the great prosperity and incredible success of our country, you took the poorest and took them away today and made their position worse - not only those who will receive this supplement, but also the whole range of others. Because of this amendment, I can under no circumstances support me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Jakob the Presbyterian. May I have peace in the hall? Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u347	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support that I don't come forward again, and the law that is required. In Slovenia, we have a lot of people who live on the edge, and they urgently need this money that is meant to do so. I also support the amendment to Article 4. Last year, at the last meeting of the National Assembly in the previous term, we adopted the addition of one law, which was literally banal and could not be adopted even in the previous term, and then the President of the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia divided that ballot around Slovenia and made electoral propaganda. In view of the announcement of the vote on this amendment, I expect the President of the Alliance of Retired Associations to share this ballot in the coming days around [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u348	Dear fellow Intercessor, I ask you to go and explain your voice and not argue with people who are not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u349	Thanks for the heads-up. I will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u350	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not have the custom of explaining why and how I vote, but this path seems to me to have to be told about the public, why and what I support for a very simple reason: because today some want to interpret what is said in the coalition contract. And they interpret this differently than I, who co-authored that paragraph and who negotiated with Mr. Pahor about what to write there. And I don't understand this Act on the Special Supplement to the Social Threats as a substitute for what the Coalition Agreement says. If anyone understands that, it's the surrogate of what we wrote down there. And I will not support this amendment - not because I think it is bad because it wants what we have promised, but because it is because I will insist that we do what we have written in the coalition agreement. And this was not in the Government's normative programme for this year, this special law on a special allowance for social threats. The proposal for a law on pensioners, the lowest-received pensioner, is written both in the coalition agreement and in the normative programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and should now be prepared and the law should be adopted no later than November, with the signature of the 'compulsory'.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u353	Hello again! It's a very wrong interpretation that divides this supplement into 12 months. This is a one-off allowance for those social transfers already received by the recipients. And we could take that as a so-called 13th supplement. It's completely misleading, as it's supposed to be. On the other hand, I would say that Slovenia is one of the countries with a very well-ordered social policy, where the level of risk of poverty is significantly lower precisely because social transfers are quite effective. It's very nice to flirt with the public and say what we would give, of course, if we also know where we're going to get it from. And it is certainly not right for us to mislead recipients in this way, because it is absolutely clear that, with such reduced options as we have - tomorrow we will talk about the budget balance - we are bidding on what we will be able to give. I'd also say what I've already told you. At the annual level, your famous change in the law or the law on social transfers has taken over 29 million euros for the recipients. Why didn't you take care of and raise the level of social security? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u354	Colleague Black Nebula, this is no time for controversy. [[Ad in the background.]] Maybe I didn't listen, maybe we're not always focused, but certainly let me, Mr. Han, run this session and I decide when to interrupt or warn. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u355	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the bill because I see in it what is also written in the title of the law that it is the single most threatened social aid. This is therefore a mitigation in crisis situations and is an addition to those measures which the Government is preparing in the light of the changed circumstances. No one claims that it is possible to cover all the needs of people, but it is, of course, impossible to agree to such an understanding of the matter, that a single supplement or a special supplement is something that can be divided throughout the year, because the point of a single supplement is precisely to help those who need to help themselves in one greater amount to solve those things that are higher costs in the household. I will support the law, I will not support the proposed amendment because it seems to me that the times in which system laws were able to prepare such a basis that when there is valorisation, the new relationship would be more favourable for those who receive it, and we have broken relations with a bad starting law, which many recipients have damaged and are simply now trying to get votes at the expense of those who are not well laid down in life. Of course, I will also stick to supporting the amendment to Article 5 proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This is an intervention law, which, in a single payment or implementation without this amendment proposed by colleagues from the SDS, represents a cost to the country under EUR 15 million. Of course, the amendment makes sense if we consider Article 2 of the Constitution. Slovenia is a legal and social state, says, and also, according to the principle of the social state, a minimum standard of living must be provided to all vulnerable groups of the population. This law or this intervention measure without this amendment will certainly do little or nothing. How many families are going to receive one-on-one help, we can already hear it. However, if we repeat this four times, we can say that we will help the most socially disadvantaged but slightly. Let me also point out that the most socially disadvantaged do not receive Euro1,200 as some Roma families, and not as asylum seekers €680 single aid. They receive much less, and their lives are already on the brink of social bottom and it is already shameful for Slovenia. In line with Article 2, I think it is right to help these people - not once, but for as long as this crisis is going on, of course, to make their lives bearable.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me. You want an explanation of the voice? Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Voice explanation, Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u359	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support our amendment, and I will also support the law. Commendably that you have prepared the marriage, but the law speaks of a special addition, not of a single one, so that if the purpose were to be honest, it could also be several times a special supplement. However, we proposed the amendment because you convinced us that there are so many poverty and so many people in Slovenia who are struggling to live, who cannot survive, that we proposed a pension supplement law last year and gave 60 million to 250 thousand pensioners. At the time, you praised it, but it wasn't enough to give it to the pensioners, so we should give it to everyone with lower incomes, poor salaries and so on. Now of course you're spreading it a little bit, but even though you're spreading it, they're going to do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u360	Mrs. Jeraeva, you're having an argument with another group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u361	I'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u362	You say, "you spread" and so on. [[...]] Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u363	Half the people will receive this, according to the Minister's best forecasts of 120 grand. [[...]] That way, I will support the amendment, and I will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u365	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. Of course, I support this amendment, especially because something like this has been promised in the coalition treaty. The Coalition Treaty is written not only for one part of the population, but for all Slovenes and Slovenians. Well, the government works for everyone. As far as I know, part of a supplement should be paid already in January, and now we have been through for six months. That we have written such an amendment and that I support it is also the reason why we have heard that in Slovenia there is terrible poverty six months ago. People almost don't have the money for basic necessities. That is why I think it is right that we have written an amendment to give them €6.6 a month. I'm afraid if there's only one thing left to do, it'll be more for the bookcases than people will get. Besides, I think the money is, you just have to give it to the right population. If the bankruptcy manager can get 190.000 for six months, that means 30,000 euros a month, then even the people most at risk can get more than 6.6 euros a month. It is not wrong to propose such an amendment, it is wrong to deceive people before the elections. What is important: I think it is right and I am glad that you suddenly realized that there is only such poverty in Slovenia and that we have well-managed social life.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u366	Mr. Petan, you're referring to the other side again, you're referring to the other side. Please don't do this, there's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u367	I can't help it because I've been listening to the same thing. I'm going to support the amendment because I think it's money. Not to bankruptcy administrators 30,000 a month, but to people over 6 euros a month - to those who need them. I support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u368	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 5. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. At the second reading, I note that the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill was adopted by the National Assembly. I ask the qualified proposer whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that due to amendments adopted in other proceedings, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Mr. Pojbich, we should have called earlier. The vote has run, we have not warned you. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u369	Dear Mr. President. At least what you would expect is that you conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I held my hand for at least a minute. Everyone here has seen it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u370	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u371	Mr President, allow me, this is rude of what you have just done. Regardless of who is running this National Assembly, I am sure that it must be guided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'd expect you to do that, too. Because I warned you in time and you also found out during the voting period when you saw that I held my hand and could have ended the vote. You did not even allow me to speak on behalf of the Group of Members. Not even that. You did not even ask whether on behalf of the Group of Members or on your own behalf. You just put it to the vote. That's unacceptable. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and Mr President, I am very correct and at least what I would expect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u372	Mr Pojbič, please don't speak to the threat and don't threaten the President of the National Assembly. Watch your step. Please don't threaten.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u373	Probably those who listen to this discussion, now [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u374	Threats aren't popular today. You know.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u375	Look, Mr. President. [[...]] Voters and voters, citizens and citizens have seen my hand, certainly, watching this. Trust me. That's not funny. This is distasteful and irresponsible. Mr President, I ask you once again to conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure provide that Members shall have the right to express their views on behalf of the Group of Members first and then on their own behalf. And you didn't take that into consideration, so I'm asking you to stick to it in the future. However, I find it very irresponsible that the President of the National Assembly should do so. That's really irresponsible and extreme, I'll say, even rudely, if I can afford that expression. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u376	Mr Pojbič, I strongly reject your allegations, especially the tone and manner in which you issued the warning. I reject the warning, it wasn't true, you didn't report early enough. What is a minute for you and what is not, we can discuss it, but we are closing the matter. The meeting shall be chaired and interpreted by the President of the National Assembly. I also remind you of the tone of the debate with regard to colleagues and also with the President of the National Assembly. Continue with interrupt 14. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT OF THE WORKING SUBSIDITIONAL WORKING TIME, Urgent PROCEDURE. We'll proceed with the second reading. This is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2009 I am moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS, LDS to another article. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendment and to the second reading of the proposal under the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. They don't intend to. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 in attendance, 55 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question by Mr Tanka on measures to reduce the backlog for the most developed countries. We're voting. Excuse me. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u377	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will explain at least the position on behalf of the Group of Members on all the questions sent. I would therefore ask you to prepare yourself for the meeting as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u378	Thank you for this helpful warning that will make my work easier. I have nothing to do with this. Please explain to the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Jože Tanko, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u379	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia has found itself in a relatively difficult situation. We have come from very good economic growth, which was significantly better than the average of the European Union, and we have fallen for a strong percentage of those countries we would like to catch up with. This decline in economic growth is much greater and more fatal than the decline in economic growth in some countries that have entered the European Union from the so-called Eastern bloc. For example, Poland has a significantly smaller decline in economic growth, the Czechs have a significantly smaller decline in economic growth, and it may not be necessary to specifically explain to the Slovenian public that these countries were not structurally comparable to Slovenia and operate with the same economic circle as Slovenia. This is said to be the case with most European Union countries. This means that these governments have been much more structurally prepared to solve the problems posed by the economic crisis than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the absence of a large number of measures that were expected were announced, which were also proposed by opposition parties, and which would certainly lead to a substantial improvement in the situation we are witnessing to them. In addition, the situation is exacerbated in the field of human resources, as the directors of the most important Slovenian companies, such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Slovenian Railways, which were appointed this year in the mandate of this government, have been replaced or resigned after a few months. Key economic operators are without competent leadership. They're run by temporary managers. In our Group of Members, we propose to discuss the situation in which Slovenia is in a position to discuss this. I hope that the Members of the coalition groups will support this proposal. It is probably in everyone's interest to analyse the situation in order to discuss this, to see what measures are the ones that would help Slovenia to raise economic growth without facing our economic growth in the free fall, as the Prime Minister would like to commend. I think we owe it to you. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] both in the coalition and in the opposition to do everything to stop the free fall. [[...]] More to bring Slovenia back to those cities and that economic growth that we had before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u380	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franet Cukjati, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to France Tsukjati's question on the implementation of compulsory health insurance rights. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u381	Thank you for your word. Certainly, health care is an important activity, especially in times of economic crisis and other pressures on the part of the deepening population, and on constant questions about what the Ministry is planning to prevent the major negative effects of the economic crisis on health, we do not get any answers. The only response we have received is that the reduced funds are for salaries, reduced depreciation funds, and we will also hear in the budget that there has been a further reduction in depreciation resources, that is to say for the renewal, the updating of equipment in hospitals. In addition, there is not a single measure that would apply for the following year in the longer term. Indeed, this year will be able to overcome this lack of funds with a positive balance and with the profits generated in the previous term or last year at the Institute of Health Insurance and with measures to reduce wages and depreciation. But it's autumn before us, next year, what then. The salaries may be completely deleted, depreciation completely deleted, but that is not likely. And if there are other measures that need to be prepared that will apply for the following year so that we do not collapse, then we should think about it now. Autumn's at the door. I believe that this would be helpful to our Minister, such a debate where we would discuss other measures, economic or organisational, those within the Ministry's domain. While the Minister is talking about some organizational changes, such as the reorganisation of hospitals, that some hospitals on the periphery will be abolished and so on. But, gentlemen, the hen operation in Brežica is cheaper than the Clinical Center. And the abolition of peripheral hospitals does not mean rationalization in health care. It means extra new costs. Therefore, the Minister has not shown any action yet, although I have already instructed him to take some such measures that would be very effective, but they need to be planned now, no later than in September, October, in order to apply for the following year. This would help us find a solution and I think the Minister would be pleased with this debate. We'll back her up, and I'm asking you to back her up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u382	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the MEP to the question of Mr Jerovšek concerning the high payment of awards in insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the case of IO Vrhnnik - Mrs Toševa etc., the successful high prizes are called for the Minister of Justice to act quickly and in good time and in order to prevent this matter. When we tabled a proposal for a bankruptcy law in March, we warned him that that change was very flawed, but there was no response at the time. He then announced the limitation of these payments, but at the same time, it was obvious that a call had been made to bankruptcy managers to apply quickly. And the courts reacted brilliantly. The courts were also reportedly asked to act as quickly as possible to ensure that bankruptcy managers receive these high prizes. It's greed, it's excess to extremes, and the minister's response didn't go that way. He said there was an opportunity for state attorneys. Let him report next time what the state's attorneys have done. So far, they have not protected public finances and the state is the owner or co-owner of many companies in para-national companies, and there has been nothing done to ensure public interest, and even less so that creditors, creditors and employees are paid at least partially. Such conduct by the Ministry of Justice and the Minister and in view of such non-action, it is necessary to hold a debate in the National Assembly. People expect, trustees, workers who are screwed up, that's what they expect, and I hope that's why you press the "yes" button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u384	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marijan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Matey Lahovnik, to the question of Mr Bezjak's question on assistance to firms in difficulty. Procedurally, Mr. Rose, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u385	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am not sure that the business conditions are met for us to vote on this decision at all. Mr Bezjak asked Minister Lahovnik what he wanted to ask him, as is possible under Rule 246 of our Rules of Procedure. The President-in-Office at that time, Vice-President, Mr Cukjat, and also on the supplementary question, my fellow Member did not allow the Minister of Economy to respond. The second part of the reply to the Minister was not enabled. I am an eternal optimist myself, and I believe that, given my arguments and persuasiveness and the cognitive abilities of my colleague Bezjak, the Minister may still be convinced of the completeness of his response. Mr Bezjak would not require what he requested in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. I am aware that this 246th article does not speak anywhere about the fact that a Member should first exhaust all the other options, but I am sure that there is no need for this vote today, given the meaningful interpretation of this Rules of Procedure. Perhaps we would give the Minister the opportunity at his next meeting to answer the other half of the question and see whether or not his colleague Bezjak would be satisfied with this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. Rose. I continue to encourage you to remain optimistic, but the President has decided as he has decided. We will therefore have to vote on the proposal for a decision as set out here. We're voting. Yeah, he didn't answer. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We never call for explanations of vote, and we expect those who want to do so to come forward in time and so that we can see them and invite them to do so. With regard to the proposal by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to Alenka Jeraj's question on the tasks of the Group against Organized Crime. Explanation of vote, Alenka Jeraj on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u387	Thank you for your word. I asked the Minister what are the powers and tasks of the organised crime group or the Department for the fight against organised crime. The Minister explained that they plan, direct, monitor and directly carry out criminal investigations in the field of organised crime, in particular in the field of illicit drugs, extreme violence and criminal associations, and carry out other tasks under the laws, regulations or orders of the chairman. I was wondering which of these categories was the subject of the hearing, which took place on 2 July because of the suspicion of the crime of issuing classified information and was carried out by the head of the organised crime group, and also whether the opposition generally considers itself an organised crime for it, we may be some organised criminal association that these must investigate. And the Minister explained to me that the case had been dealt with by the organised crime department, but that does not mean that there is a suspicion of organised crime and that various police administrations have established departments for such crime. She also explained that we are all the same before the law, whether it is ministers of this government or ministers of the previous government or the parents of any of the ministers of this government. And if so, we have been talking about Mr Golobic all day today, there have been many allegations today of suspicions of various crimes, all or many of which would fall under the auspices of the Special Department for Organised Crime. And if the secretary would listen to us today, it would probably be easier to find enough work for this group or for this department. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on her response and give her some of the topics that the Commission or the organised crime group can address.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u388	Thank you very much. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Kresal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Kresal, Mr Kresal, on the matter of Mr Kresal, on the question of Mr Kresal, on behalf of the Group? [[..]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u389	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is no longer a maritime state since we handed over the General Navigation to a foreigner. And we have given the General Navigation in an illegal way, free of charge, contrary to the Public Finance Act, which is a decision taken by the Government under "strictly confidential", contrary to what the Public Finance Act stipulates, i.e. free of charge to the Court, which is under the pretext of providing money for the victims of war violence, without prior assessment of the value of the company sold it to a foreigner. Nothing happened, even though the violation was reported. On the same day that the government adopted the decision, the then minister called notary, and they transferred it free of charge or free of charge to the Court of Justice in their office. As the infringement is evident, state prosecutor Barbara Brezigar, who did not respond, was also informed. Otherwise, I have some assurance from the Minister, who has somehow ensured that the investigation will be conducted by the general police administration, not the police unit in Ljubljana. I also have the assurance that they will consult the Court of Auditors, who is the only one who is working seriously on this. The Kosovo Commission has found that this money has not been earmarked for the victims of war violence at all or that there has never been any such money. We're talking about the biggest damage to state property in Primorska. The country previously rehabilitated this company by special law and allocated $75 million to this company. We actually gave a rehab company to someone. As this is also a major breach of labour law, let me remind you that no Slovenian seafarer is anymore employed almost in the General Navigation, because the new owner, Mr Peter Döhle, has actually swept all sailors, sailors and officers and captains onto the land. He prefers Koreans, Singaporeans, Taiwanese and so on. I think it is necessary and the Slovenian National Party is convinced that an extensive debate is being held in this National Assembly before we hand over extensive material to international courts. There is no doubt that we will have to do so because the court of Cyprus is involved. Mr Döhle's legal representative is Mr Velkavr [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Jožica Velkavra is the President of the Court of Cyprus, and then you need to know how the complaints are going. [[...]] The debate on this is urgent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u390	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 37. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. According to the proposal of Mr Petr Verlič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Dragel, to Dr. Petr Verlič's question on driving a blue-lighted service vehicle." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr. Peter Verlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u391	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u392	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u393	I asked the Minister of Transport for the authenticity of his behaviour when he was illegally driving along the highway by means of blue lights with an official vehicle. After credibility, I asked him because, as Minister of Transport, he is objectively the most responsible for traffic safety. Traffic security has moved from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport's department to point out how important it is that we all adhere to traffic regulations. And the first to be most responsible is the Minister of Transport. We can all, as we drive along our roads, watch warnings from large jumbo posters, where the Minister of Transport warns us all that speed kills to harm health and so on. I also asked the Minister to protect his personal integrity whether he had managed at least so much courage and offered his resignation to the Prime Minister. It's hard to run a department if you're impeccable. It is difficult to explain to traffic participants how you must respect all traffic regulations so that you cannot commit offences. The Minister of Transport, who is responsible for this, says, I admit, I made a mistake. In this government, violations of regulations have now become errors. How to explain to young people now that the minister can drive illegally with blue lights, and of course the driver is responsible for everything. We know that the driver of the service vehicle was not in a hurry. The Minister of Transport was in a hurry. I propose that we hold a broader debate on the responsibility of the Minister of Transport and on how the Government is showing us through such ministers, and how they cannot even be brave enough to offer their resignation. Let us hold this debate here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u394	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 49. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading and the decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. The amendment is also linked to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. If the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 is not adopted, the amendment of the same Group of Members to Article 10 will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u395	Mr President, you said to Article 1 - yes, firstly, this is the second amendment. Thank you. Notwithstanding the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article, the Slovenian National Party proposes that the Council of Public Vocational or Professional Schools, High Schools and Public Schools shall consist of three representatives of the founder, five representatives of the workers, three representatives of the parents and two representatives of the pupils who must be at least 18 years of age or 18 years of age in the current year of election. It is not the case, colleagues and colleagues, that we do not trust the responsibility of young people who are different, regardless of age, different from education, different from everything else. However, we must be aware that this is a great responsibility, for which we estimate that, in comparison with other laws which have a statutory age at the age of 18, such provisions should also be taken into account in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. Once again, I respect and love all young people, but in such responsible decisions it is only right that those who fulfil the age of majority defined in many other laws participate in the driving licence and so on, i.e. 18 years. I estimate that it would be right and fair for this second amendment to Article 1 proposed by the Slovenian National Party to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u396	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u397	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Social Democrats will fully support and support the Amendments to Articles 7, 8, 9a and 9b of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, since these are also amendments that have been made on the basis of the recommendation of the Legal and Legal Service, thus supplementing and clarifying the amended text of the law as drafted by the Committee. The proposed amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party will not be supported for a simple reason - we advocate the fact that the participation of students in sacred schools is absolutely necessary and that it is pointless to set an age limit because this would limit the possibility of participation. Look at how many students would be able to participate and how much time, given when they're 18 years old. In addition, the age limit did not provide other other quality movements that could be brought about by the participation of students in the school world. On the other hand, we are pleased that representatives of the Slovenian National Party have followed at least that part of the law that speaks of the participation of five employees in the holy institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u398	Thank you. Explanation of voice in your own name, Bogdan Barovic. Please, but don't argue. A laugh in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u399	Now you've really told someone who doesn't usually do that. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] But it's okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u400	Peace in the hall! Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u401	I would like to remind you that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that every citizen has full work capacity with an additional 18 years. The legal order of the Republic of Slovenia - every citizen has the ability to perform with the age of 18. If that doesn't mean enough, why this amendment, then it's really a shame even those two minutes and those few seconds for your warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u402	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 68. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u403	Respectable. This amendment foresees 100% funding for the cost of training a child from a socially weak family, irrespective of the school he attends, and thus would allow for real choice for even less wealthy parents. The right of parents to choose education and education is a constitutional right and, as a fundamental human right under Article 15 of the Constitution, it is not permissible to restrict it with anything, of course not with the property status of parents. What is the situation today, the best evidence is that the Waldorf School in Ljubljana, as a private school, is 100% funded by public funds, while children who attend the same Waldorf School in Maribor are 85% funded by public funds, which means that 15% of the children in Maribor are less valuable than in Ljubljana, which is a human unacceptable and also an obvious violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Unfortunately, however, the Constitutional Court, as you know, does not wish to rule. In addition, the European Union points out that Slovenia should make every effort to strengthen private education, which today is at a negligible 2%, because it only allows for healthy competitiveness and development by introducing new methods and programmes that later enrich public education. The Waldorf School and mathematics are the best evidence for this. Therefore, the SDS amendment would only allow for the effective exercise of the constitutional right to choose education and education for all parents and all children, regardless of their property status, regardless of their property, but it is also in line with the principle and value of justice, which I am consistently defending, and is also one of the fundamental values of the SDS. If someone votes against this amendment, it will only prove that they objectively support elitism, which means that some schools are only accessible to those with higher incomes and will show that they are also non-European and socially insensitive and I hope that they are not among us. In addition, I would put ideology ahead of respect for international human rights instruments and the protection of young people, who in all kinds of ways make free choice, unhindered choice for education and education as a fundamental human right. In the SDS, we respect human rights in a consistent manner and will therefore support this amendment in a uniform manner. The European or anti-European orientation of other parties, their consistency or respect for human and constitutional rights and ultimately their social sensitivity or insensitiveness, if they vote against them, will be the subject of a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u404	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 in attendance, 34 in favour, 47 in favour. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 7. We're voting. There are 78 present, 60 votes against 2. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 79 in attendance, 53 in favour, 2 in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8. We're voting. There are 77 in attendance, 32 in favour, 42 in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the decision of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS Group to Article 9.a. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9.b. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will not vote on the amendment to Article 10; it is irrelevant, as I said at the outset. We have therefore ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 7, 8, 9a and 9b of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. [[They don't want to.]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr Menich, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u405	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! It is unacceptable that municipalities, as school founders and as a payer of material costs: transport, investment, superstandard, wages that the Ministry does not recognise, are excluded from the amendment of education and education legislation or are not invited to give their opinion on the amendment of the law. With the proposal of the novel ZOFVI, it is a direct intervention in the situation of local communities, which in the present case is decreasing and thus exacerbating their situation throughout the process. This is an extremely unusual circumstance, for it is important to note that, on the other hand, the congregations are legally founders, that is, payers, but at the same time, without being formally asked, take their rights and make their situation worse. The change in the decision on the establishment of schools and kindergartens will result in costs. And who's gonna pay for them? It's the congregations again. We will reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u406	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 31. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rail Transport in the context of the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. Please. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u407	Thank you very much. We have simply tabled the amendment to Article 6 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because the text, which is written in general, in the first paragraph, is written in order to make use of public railway infrastructure. Of course, the carrier has to pay for the use, but to whom does it have to be paid? He has to pay the manager. And we're adding that word. But we don't add it just to make the text clear and clear. We also add it because that is exactly what Article 7 of Directive 2001/14 requires, where it states that the carrier must pay the operator the user. Why is that word released, as it will then be seen in the other two amendments? Because you are not implementing the acquis required by the European acquis by this law, but you are doing something that is contrary to the European directive. The benefits that the manager's income - and you haven't changed this status - are still Slovenian railways - you are now transferring to the agency and this is against the applicable directive of the European Union. And again. If you support this amendment, then we will have it in line with the European acquis, otherwise not. Otherwise, this law will be rejected by the European Commission. I therefore propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u408	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u409	Thank you very much. I'm sorry you didn't support the previous amendment. This begins the first step of breaking down Slovenian railways [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u410	Dear colleague Dr Verlich, explanation of the amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u411	I'll explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u412	I will not allow you to comment on the previous amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u413	because it's connecting [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u414	Explanation of vote on the amendment to Article 12 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u415	Article 12, determining the use is the responsibility of the Agency. [[...]] What we have proposed, and you include in this concept the concept of charging the user. This is not in any European directive. It's your invention. It is not possible to charge the Agency in accordance with the European Directive, as the use can only be collected and accounted for. And that's what the manager does. I propose that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the delegation of Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u417	I would also like to point out that the European Commission expressly prohibits that Slovenian railways, because they are a single system, are collecting and charging benefits from other operators. If the SDS amendments were accepted, there would be serious problems. And if we were to open the market for public passenger transport, including for other operators, the law would be really inconsistent with the European Commission's requirements. Therefore, these amendments, all three of them, should be explicitly rejected if we are to introduce a European Union Directive on the free market in public passenger transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u418	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u419	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we propose that this Article be deleted. This amendment implements exactly what I said in my explanation for the previous amendment. Workers, software, people who have to carry out the timetable are transferred to the agency. Slovenian railways are now out of key personnel, following a new one, if this amendment is supported. It shall be transferred to the Railway Agency. This is not in accordance with the Directive adopted. Once again, I stress what the Commission wants and what the directive says is important. And if you refuse this amendment, then you have begun to break the Slovenian railways.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u420	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 25. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes with this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u421	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Now that it's almost midnight, it's time to analyze the day. I note that only those opposition proposals were adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u422	Dear colleague Tanko, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u423	for which no vote has been taken. [[...]] So these were two investigative committees. I suggest that you check with your services that it is possible for the opposition and also the SDS to submit laws in the form of a request for an investigative commission. I expect an answer by the end of the extraordinary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u424	You will not receive an answer to this question until the conclusion of a regular and not extraordinary meeting, not this and not the next extraordinary meetings. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay, following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 8th meeting of the Assembly, which was concluded on 15 July. Thank you very much, very good-bye. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Thank you.
