ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the third session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Jakob Preseknik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister for Development and European Affairs. Minister, please explain the law behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, which the Government wants to deal with under urgent procedure, for reasons of urgency of economic nature, given that the impact of the economic crisis on developments in the Slovenian economy is such that additional and strengthened measures in the field of economic functioning are necessary. Some of the reasons led the government to amend and supplement this law. The first is that its role is strengthened financially, given what was written in the original text of the law as development and economic tasks, which are intended to be complementary to what business and financial institutions are also engaged in. Thus, already in its previous composition, the government has decided that the former agency, which was governed by another law, will transform this institution into a development and export bank following the example of the Member States of the European Union, which normally have such institutions that complement the functioning of market institutions in the financial market. In particular, because these institutions, in particular the market, do not perform all those tasks on the market that would be necessary for the development of the economy, and therefore the functioning of such a development institution is complementary but not substitutive in the market, and complements the activities of commercial banks in segments that are not well covered by them. The practice of this institution, which was established last summer after a broader public debate and proposals, has shown that some shortcomings that need to be further addressed in order to enable this institution to act in accordance with its mandate, and that synergies between the various institutions covering development issues in Slovenia, besides the export and development bank, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the Regional Development Fund, the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. So the synergies resulting from this would mean a better quality of operation of the economy as well. Secondly, the mandate of the bank has been extended so that it can also deal with transactions related to the use of European funds in a way that has not been implemented so far in practice, which is in a return way, this is the real use of funds. This is with credit and similar arrangements that allow the use of one euro more than once, allowing, of course, the use of European funds even after the end of the financial perspective in 2013. If we stop only using subsidies and transfers, which are now the main instruments for the use of European funds, then this use is unique and cannot be repeated again. As a result, an article of the Law on this subject was extended. In order to enable the bank to operate safely to a greater extent, it is necessary to increase its capital volume, so the Government has proposed in law and provided in the national budget rebalancing the corresponding amount of recapitalisation of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank from 140 million to 300 million euros, or 160 million euros. I will then give a few more figures on the extent to which this institution is operating. The third major change in the law is the one that speaks of the State guarantee for this institution. The Article was supplemented by the fact that, in practice, the international institutions with which this bank is generally involved are the European Investment Bank and some others do not understand this Article on State guarantee as unconditional, as is the principle for all these institutions operating under conditions such as the Slovenian Development and Export Bank, and therefore there were difficulties in negotiating additional credit arrangements between that bank and between those international institutions. By amending this Article, which does not increase the State's obligation, but rather defines it more clearly and uniformly, it has also been established by these institutions that there is no longer this comment which could otherwise impede the functioning of the Slovenian Development and Export Bank. In addition, this Act complements the point on the operation and the powers or management of this bank. It is a simple adaptation of the banking management system to the principles in force in the Banking Act, by which this institution operates and is under the control of the Bank of Slovenia; this is that the supervisory board of these institutions is called people or candidates from the professional public who are familiar with the functioning of this institution in its business operations. This is mainly the case with respect to credit activities, as regards risk-taking, as regards audit and accounting activities. For this reason, this Article is amended and, in the final composition of the Supervisory Board, decides on the proposal for a law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the professional public also containing representatives of those institutions which have a legitimate interest in the development and functioning of this bank, such as the Economic and Commercial Chamber. I'd like to tell you a few more facts that are improving the status of this bank right now. A few days ago, this bank received an appropriate international rating of the institutions, namely a re-itting similar to that of the Republic of Slovenia, a double A - stable, which reduces its costs in obtaining additional funding sources. In addition, contacts with the European Investment Bank have found that arrangements to be concluded between this bank and the Slovenian Export and Development Bank this year will be arranged at the so-called sovereign risk, i.e. a risk which is equal to the country's risk and thus reduces the cost of the institution's debt. We therefore propose that the National Assembly, in its debate, support the amendment and supplementation of the Slovenian Development Bank Act, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the president a word. To Anton Rope for presentation of the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u4	Good morning, good morning! Dear Members! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is 18. 2. 2009 was treated as a parent working body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Following prior coordination with the drafter of the law, the Committee considered and adopted five editorial amendments of qualified candidates; the amendment to Article 6 of the legislative proposal was tabled by the SDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The drafter stressed that certain additions and amendments to the existing law were needed, which would allow the country to better manage the consequences of the financial and economic crisis under the changed circumstances, in particular due to the failure of the credit market. It was pointed out that the SID Bank needed capital, additional capital for urgent additional tasks and obligations which could not even be foreseen at the time of the adoption of the basic law. Therefore, the government proposes that the SID Bank be recapitalised up to EUR 300 million in 2009, which is to be taken into account in the proposal for a state budget rebalancing, which will be considered in the coming days. Amendments to the law are also intended to define more clearly the tasks that this institution has under this law. For example, available European funds are used through so-called financial engineering, which is enabled and encouraged from the outset by the European Commission. This means that, in addition to the classic instruments for promoting development programmes and projects such as subsidies and transfers, the bank's SID financial instruments can also be used in a similar way as those applied to development banks in other EU countries. The proposed amendments specifically mentioned and addressed the amendment of Article 18 of the Law, which redefines the bank’s management body, which is in line with the escaped mode of operation of other financial institutions with their representatives, who are, as a rule, specialists for the supervision of the functioning of financial institutions. Of course, these are not usually ministers, since such functions are intended in particular to implement policy and economic and political decisions and not to manage the Supervisory Board by direct business decisions in a legal entity. It is therefore a specialised, rigorous professional institution, both in terms of membership of the administration and of the supervisory board, where higher standards and strict rules are required. In the debate, the representative of the proposed amendments to Article 6 of the SDS Group referred to Article 18 of the basic law, expressed some concerns and made comments. In particular, there are no representatives of certain ministries within the SID authorities, as proposed, who would definitely belong there by the nature of their operations. The discussion continued with particular emphasis on the treatment and adoption of one of the most important instruments or measures of the current government policy. The law, as proposed, allows for direct intervention and influence on current economic movements. Given the volume of financial resources and a range of possible financial measures, it has a real impact on economic movements, the promotion of production, investment and, consequently, economic growth. In the current economic crisis situation, both in Slovenia and in Europe, there is a need to find as many solutions as possible to enable a way out of the complex economic situation. Dear Members! The law before us is such an experiment, such an opportunity, is such an opportunity that the National Assembly will give the Slovenian government and the administration of the SID bank today. However, without their effective and effective application of the law and the resources available to them, there are no major effects to be expected. I am sure that the applicants are aware of this. At the end of the debate, however, most of the discussers finally supported the amendment of the law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which those amendments are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Export and Development Bank was established by the adoption of the law last May and the entry into force of the law coincided with the deepening of the financial crisis and its consequences. We therefore believe that there have already been individual obstacles to the full implementation of the law in monetary and capital markets. The difficult acquisition of resources for the conduct of incentive activities and the situation in the banking sector creates additional requirements for borrowers abroad, which must also be met by the SID of the Bank. We therefore support the amendments and additions to the law providing SID to the bank with the appropriate equity necessary to carry out its activities and to remove doubts as to the extent and content of the State's liability for the liabilities of that bank. When we adopt this law, we can find that the SID is becoming one of the most important instruments or levers at the moment with which the current government can fight the consequences of negative global economic developments in the Republic of Slovenia. The government allows interventions in the area of measures to promote economic growth, economic recovery, the rehabilitation of the banking system and so on. In this regard, I would also like to draw attention to the exceptional responsibility that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes into its own hands with such solutions. In the fact that the State is irrestrictively responsible for the liabilities of the Bank’s SID, the levers I have been talking about can be converted as quickly as possible into an attempt to set up some para-national financial instruments designed for deserving people, fall within a certain political option. The key question is to whom and under what conditions the funds will be distributed. In doing so, it does not seem to us to be an essential question that the Minister is proposing to several members of the Supervisory Board, but to correct and independent supervision and operation of the bank. In the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens, we hope and expect that the bank will carry out the tasks entrusted to it in a truly independent and objective manner and that the above-mentioned fears will not become meat. The temptation is great. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will monitor the proper functioning of the SID Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Greetings also to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues and distinguished audience! The position of our parliamentary group is that last year we became a key institution of Slovenian Development Finance as a specialised incentive, development and financial institution by adopting the SID Bank Act. We are now taking a step forward, because with this bill and some other measures by the Government, the SID Bank has now become one of the most important instruments of the Government to deal with the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, and at the same time represents one of the important measures in the second package of so-called anti-crisis measures. The implementation of the solutions set out in the bill will, in the view of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, allow more effective intervention by the State in two key areas, on the one hand, the revitalisation of industrial production and the promotion of economic growth and, on the other hand, the standardisation of the banking or financial system. In this conclusion, we also agree with those in our Group who point out that it would be even better if the Government, instead of a larger number of measures, allocated more funds to SID to the Bank and therefore implemented more measures through this institution. We also highlight the Government's efforts to redirect from traditional, exclusively irreparable financing models to returnable instruments, thus improving access to finance especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is certainly of paramount importance at this time. However, we are of the opinion that companies must be even more active, innovative in finding solutions to their problems, in spite of the extremely unfavourable situation or, in particular, because of these unfavourable situations. In general or in particular, non-refundable financing measures, of course, entail risks of over-passivating companies, which we find difficult to afford in Slovenia at this time. The implementation of the law further allows for adequate higher credit ratings, with which it will be able to compete in the domestic and foreign markets to obtain some other important long-term assets, in short, at home, and will significantly increase the room for manoeuvre for other transactions. At the same time, of course, we expect the Bank to act with great determination that this will also be the work of leadership and the whole structure, because the situation in global and financial markets is such that they certainly require it. In particular, because, at times, the situation is deteriorating and the borrowing of loans in some of our permanent partner markets, such as Germany, is also closing and limiting. The recapitalisation and thus the higher core capital will certainly allow the lending of higher amounts to companies, which will mean greater and better aid to exporters of medium and small enterprises. It is a significant strengthening of this institution and its greater involvement in the economy and the financial system as a whole. The proposal also sets out more clearly the provisions on guarantees for the liabilities of the Bank's SID, which we consider to be important, necessary and good. For the state will be irrevocably and irresistibly responsible for the liabilities of the SID of the bank from the closed business. There will also be changes in the supervisory board of banks, but this matter does not seem to be the most important and crucial issue. It is essential that there be more experts there than politicians, and this is important. That is why we feel this controversy about the proposal, the candidates for members of the Supervisory Board by individual ministries, is less important. And the dilemma, which is also imposed by the amendment's proponents, is more prestigious, imposed, not substantively important. Therefore, in the LDS, we now accept the clarifications of both competent ministries and we believe that the competent Human Resources Accreditation Council will also do its job properly in this case, as in some cases so far. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the proposed amendment to Article 6 of the amended law. Finally, it seems important to us that the implementation of the law under consideration also means the implementation of one of the best anti-crisis measures available to us at this time, and we therefore support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u10	Hello, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I represent the position of the Group of Social Democrats. During the financial crisis, the State SID becomes an important institution in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, as it has already offered an additional EUR 100 million to finance these. The SID also offered EUR 100 million for medium-sized and large enterprises. By doing so, the State Bank is trying to facilitate access to financial resources for Slovenian companies and thus help them to cope with the current financial crisis. Therefore, the SID Bank, as a development and incentive bank, will contribute to mitigating the negative impact of the adverse financial situation on the business of Slovenian companies and will promote growth and further development of the Slovenian economy. In setting up further measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis, the SID Bank, in cooperation with the Government and other entities, will endeavour to prepare further financial products and incentives as soon as possible. The SID Bank Act was passed last year. This has established new functions for the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. However, it has been shown that certain additions and changes are needed to allow, in changed economic and financial circumstances, for a country with the institutions and instruments at its disposal to respond more appropriately to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, in particular due to the failure of the credit market, both in Europe and Slovenia. The most important change in this law is that, with the capital at its disposal, this bank is at present difficult to fulfil those functions and tasks that are enshrined in the law. Therefore, it is proposed that SID Bank recapitalise up to 300 million in 2009. Among the more important provisions of the proposal for a new law is also the ban on the use of the bank’s SID’s balance sheet profit for the payment of dividends to the sole owner, that is to say the State. This cancels the payment of dividends so that the bank can increase reserves and thereby reduce the burden on the State. The next major addition or amendment is also more clearly defined the tasks of the SID bank under this law. These are the tasks defined in Article 3 of the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law. Here, too, those forms of banking are clearly defined that allow European funds, which are available to this bank in a certain way, to be used through so-called financial engineering, which the European Commission allows and encourages, and in particular from the start of the financial crisis. It is therefore important that, in addition to the classic instruments for promoting development programmes and projects, subsidies, transfers and similar things can also be used by credit instruments that can be implemented by that bank, which is a development bank, in the same way as development banks in other countries of the European Union. The law also tightens the requirements for membership in the administration of this bank. Since this is the case for a specialised high professional institution, higher standards are required for members of the administration who are selected on the basis of the tender law, the supervisory board of the Bank’s SID. It is therefore proposed that five out of seven members of the Supervisory Board be elected as representatives of the professional public in the supervisory board of the bank. In this way and in this way, the political impact on the functioning of the bank has been lifted. For all of this, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal for amendments to the SID Bank Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u12	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support that communication and those legislative solutions that expand tasks and resources as interventions, complementing commercial institutions in aiding and supporting small, medium-sized enterprises or the economy in general. It seems important to me here to point out that it is or should be a supplement or to fill some market gaps where credit institutions do not operate sufficiently. This market gap is growing during the crisis, or is huge, and this is also a key problem for these institutions, because now, as I have heard from the speakers, there is a great deal of attention to this institution in order to do what other institutions, which should do in nature, will not do. I'm thinking about commercial banks here, and here I see the first problem. If commercial banks, which are to a good extent also in majority state ownership, are not allowed to start lending to economies, unfortunately, this measure will not - and not by the means we are talking about - be able to fill these gaps. However, it can be a useful supplement, so in this sense we support the basic intent of this law. Another point that is worth pointing out is that it is once again a new instrument, a new institution that will further create some confusion and lack of transparency in the market for these instruments with new tasks. Indeed, the country has quite a set of support institutions, agencies that are now operating in one way or another. If the ambition of this institution is to play an integrated complementary role, then we can also take a step forward here. The key problem is that this institution has somehow escaped control, in particular parliamentary supervision, because it is a bank and an insurance company and is subject to the supervision of some regulators, and here it seems to me that it has escaped the supervision of public finances that this Parliament is also carrying out. That seems a little problematic to me. In fact, we stress that this is an important instrument of the state or government in dealing with the crisis, and that is why the state is dedicating money. At the same time, it is a matter of filling market gaps where the risks are greater than otherwise, because if there were no market gaps, commercial banks would do so and since commercial banks do not do so, it is a matter of greater risk. At the same time, control is actually a bit alienated from the levers of government or the upheavals of the state, and that is the problem. See, the Commission on Public Finances of this Parliament, like the foreign parliament, deals with a number of both budgetary and non-budgetary institutions of the public sector, and this particular institution - even after the Minister's statements, when I asked him a question on Monday - will not deal with it. This seems to me to be one of the key shortcomings of this concrete solution. The second thing I would like to point out, and this will be further explained in the framework of the amendment tabled by the Group of Members, I believe that it would require the supervisory board of the Bank to write more in writing, particularly in relation to economic operators. There are also some restrictions on the allocation or, I would say, assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises or companies in general, which are lacking in particular in terms of, say, limits or some of the ceilings and other frameworks that would prevent those funds from being received only by individuals, but not as wide a circle as possible. So, in the parliamentary group, we will react to the adoption of the amendment, otherwise we support the basic intent of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and a very nice greeting! Sometimes it seems that there are problems, at least this economic, financial, at least this recessional trends, even good for what; at least for us to think more thoroughly, to look even for a series of possible measures that can help, even if not all the most successful ones, and to abandon something. In our parliamentary group, in particular, we think it is good that this current crisis has confirmed us in thoughts that have gone in the direction of abandoning some of the neoliberal dogmas offered, almost axioms or at least submenus, we might say, and that even the protagonists of these neoliberal postulates have softened a little, I would say, their aggression and are more prepared to think along with others. That is why we are a little calm, and we can say that by making it easier to look at what we have done in the past, when we have not followed all the demands for full liberalisation, privatisation of banks and the full withdrawal of the country from all parts and places. I can say that we are pleased that it has been shown that some state-coordinated measure can also be useful in the economy and finance. We therefore support this bill because in this connotation we understand the proposal of the law. We do not support - I will explain later why - the amendment proposal. However, we consider that the philosophy of this law is appropriate; in so doing, as already stated in the opening additional presentation, we are deterring only irreversible aid from retaliatory measures, which are reversible, which also require a different responsibility in relation to these measures. We believe that this bill can contribute to this. We are convinced that the right direction is the direction that we can understand from the bill, even if it is no longer the case, as is the case with other commercial banks, which have already been compared with this bank today, only for profitable motives. We are pleased that the bill explicitly states that it does not concern the owner or shareholder to manage these funds and possibly profit, for example, a budget hole; it does not mean that these funds are for further development, for reserves, i.e. for the safe operation of the bank that takes over, as we can see, a complete subsidiary responsibility for the obligations arising from the operation. In the short term, we are sure that the SID Bank - it has shown so far, this is one of the better measures, as we believe - will contribute as one of the many instruments that facilitate the resolution of the crisis in which we are. In the long run, and that's more important in my judgment, but it's a specialized bank. And if we read more precisely what it says in Article 3, we will see that it is not so narrowly limited to those functions to which other commercial banks are limited, and that it encourages that it is proactive - not only that it follows the strategic direction and individual development policies of our country in different areas, but not only in financial areas, but rather that it is only a quick pro amendment, simply replacing one minister with another when it comes to proposing candidates for the Supervisory Council. We believe in the Member State of DeSUS that the law must be supported; that the composition, because it is a key controversy, of the supervisory council, is appropriate; that measures and the expected results will give what we expected - cheaper, faster, better access to resources, better assistance to the various sectors of our social life, not only economic - and therefore there is no need to support the amendment that has been offered. We will support the law, not the amendment that changes the composition of the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have no problems in the Slovenian National Party with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act. On the contrary, after the study, we estimate that it is right that it came about as it did. As early as September 2008, when the only SID shareholder became Republic of Slovenia - we have nothing against the reasons, we even support them, that it is to ensure adequate capital of the SID of the bank and that it is to remove doubts about the extent and content of the State's liability to the liabilities of the SID of the bank. Fair enough. And if the State owns this bank, it is also fair to allow this bank to recapitalise itself at this time of different financial flows. It is said at home that we are helping with the provision of more resources, i.e. EUR 300 million instead of the estimated €140 million. Of course, there are financial consequences that will be shown through the balance sheet, but that's the way it is. If the country has its own bank to achieve the objectives of providing its own capital, the elimination of doubts that will promote financial services and which will improve risk management, we must also take risks. In particular, in the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased to see a very clear picture at last in some law. Article 1 of Article 4 clearly states that dividends are paid to the Republic of Slovenia as the only shareholder, which is fair, since it is also the only owner. I don't know why this has to be written, but for once, we know that this isn't going to be divided and the bass is going to be in the pockets of a hundred. And we are particularly pleased, I hope that this will also be true when we find that the State is canceling this profit to these dividends and that the surplus of revenue over expenditure, if any, will create additional reserves for the greater stability and functioning of this institution that will help the economy. Yeah, we want something nicer. I'm sure and I hope so. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act. Well, when we look at the governance structure in Article 6, paragraph 4, "Members of the Supervisory Board of the SID Bank, is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia" - according to the draft law, there should be five representatives of the professional public and two representatives of the State. I would like to invite colleagues and colleagues, if we are already united or if we want to be united in the adoption of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Slovenian Export and Development Society, to think a little bit. Last but not least, I don't think the amendment of the SDS colleagues is wrong. I think if this is state property, if the state is responsible, if the law is written down, what obligation it has, that there is nothing wrong with it, that there are 9 members in this supervisory council instead of 7 and that there are four of the nine representatives of the country, as proposed in the amendment. So I think you should think about: yes or no - accepting the amendment. Accept it because, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and in my opinion, it is appropriate. Not because your colleagues are on the other side, and that's why you don't like them. I think he's materially appropriate. The only mistake we're alerting you to is a mathematical error. When you have tabled an amendment with today, if you look carefully - let it be corrected! You suggest, "Word 7 is replaced by 9" and then, if we read, five members as representatives of the professional public, that is 5, one - six - as representative of the Ministry, one as representative of the Ministry responsible for regional development, one as representative of the Ministry. Eight of them are listed in your amendment, although you suggest 7 to 9. Let's take a look at your amendment, and please fix it for good, so we can accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. I think we should get this amendment on the bench by now. Anybody want to talk? He does. I'm opening the application. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u18	Nicely greeted. The SID Bank is an even more important institution in today's economic and financial crisis than in normal or favourable economic conditions. It is important to finance, in particular twice as much as €100 million, which will be offered to such small, medium and large enterprises. It is also very important that this is a development and incentive bank, which will further contribute to mitigating the negative effects of the adverse financial situation on the business of Slovenian companies and promote growth and further development of the Slovenian economy. I believe that it is clear, absolutely clear what the role, mission and importance of this bank is. And we are fully aware of the role of commercial banks, regardless of whose property they are. That is why I am not surprised at the moment and I do not wonder why we are giving this bank an emphasis at the time of the economic and financial crisis. I believe that this will also facilitate the financial functioning of the entire economy, at the same time the financial system. So, both the SID bank and commercial banks will provide a financial circle that is somehow not at this point in time to that extent or is not spinning fast enough. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u19	Colleague, this is an amendment debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u21	An amendment should be discussed, not in general. [[...]] The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u22	Mr President, I don't know if I misunderstood you, but are we discussing the SDS amendment, not the SLS?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u23	We are discussing the first amendment, this is the amendment of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u24	I don't have it! I don't know him. I don't know if any of you have it here. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u25	No, another amendment of the SLS Group has arrived. I am adjourning the debate for 5 minutes in order to get you to the SLS Amendment, which is being discussed first because it relates to the first paragraph of this Article. I'll be off in five minutes. We'll resume at 10 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u26	Your Honor! I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, as well as the amendment and amendment of the SDS Group's amendment. This is the same article and we will discuss the two amendments and the correction to the SDS amendment together. That is why I am reopening the application for debate. Please. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will focus primarily on the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, which is, in fact, on the conditions to call them, which must be fulfilled by those who will lead this bank. I have a feeling that, under the condition set out in Article 6, it must have at least 15 years of work experience, of which at least seven years of experience in the management or supervision of the company's business. The condition is written in such a way that it is actually written on someone’s skin. I am convinced that these at least 15 years of working experience are not necessary as a condition, but that the condition of the one below is a key condition, i.e. seven years of experience in managing or controlling business. And that this condition is completely enough to give us sufficient professional and quality personnel to manage this bank. And that 15-year experience is completely irrelevant to me. Because if we have a good cadre, which has 14 years of work experience and seven years of leadership experience, we will not be able to or should not appoint it to this job, I think it is completely out of touch and it makes no sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. First around the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party. I think that this amendment is worthy of support, i.e. I see no reason to apply such a high standard to this institution, and even when it comes to employment in the most responsible place both in the economy and in the public administration, there is a lower standard when it comes to years of work. Quality control of such an institution is certainly not linked to years of working time, but it is certainly linked to another condition, which is said to be either management or control of a similar institution. Therefore, it seems to me that this condition is sufficient to say that the first condition is, in fact, the number of years of working time before it prevents young people who have not yet reached their 15 years of working age, but who may also have a second condition for these functions. That's why I think this amendment and this idea are good and it would be worth supporting. The second is the amendment to the same Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which changes the structure and also proposes for the members of the Bank's SID Supervisory Board. In fact, we believe that the Supervisory Board, in carrying out its mission, has the task of overseeing the legality, efficiency of business on the one hand, while the Supervisory Board also has some competence and the task of influencing the development of the products and instruments of this SID bank through its work programmes, through some form of policy-making of the operation of the SID of the Bank. And if, of course, the operation of the SID bank is only connected to a narrow circle, let's say, financial experts who are experts in overseeing the bank can be this second part, which I want as the basic mission of the SID bank - that is to say, this creation and also the implementation of measures in support of the economy - of course is somewhat neglected. That is why we have proposed to extend and somewhat more written the composition of the Supervisory Board so that the 5 members of the Supervisory Board as representatives of the professional public would be one of these five proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and one Chamber of Commerce. After having one representative in charge of finance, then one ministry in charge of development and European affairs, one ministry in charge of regional development and one minister in charge of the economy. Therefore, to include in this supervisory council people whose actions this bank is actually in their domain and have an impact on the effectiveness of the implementation of government policies. We can't forget, it's not a commercial bank. This bank is the one that fills or fills the gaps created by commercial institutions on the market. That's why someone, I'd say, has a government mission and that's why this instrument also has something to do with all these resources that I've listed. Finally, the effectiveness of the operation of the Bank’s SID is linked to the effectiveness of a government policy in this area. I really can't imagine how we'll be able to talk about responsibility if, in fact, government representatives, practically those key departments that have very much to do with it, don't even have a representative; for example, the Minister of Economy or the Minister for Regional Development, because we also want to go through this bank. Therefore, I believe that this proposal for the structure of the Supervisory Council can also better instrument government policy in this area. As has been said many times, the government intervention instrument where the market does not work and if this is really being given more attention, not only will it be linked to the use of European funds, but it is also important that these representatives are also in the supervisory board; for this is the only way that the state can act in a coordinated manner and these instruments are complemented by the instruments of the other implementing institutions. That is why we believe, and this is also the explanation of this amendment, that, through the structure of the Supervisory Council as proposed by the amendment, it is easier to implement government policies while ensuring the competent and independent control of this institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! To first touch the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party; I absolutely support it, because with 15 years of work experience we are actually going through, I don't know, 20 years ago. I think that seven years of working time is that deadline that is suitable for everyone, because at the end of the day we also have to give young people the opportunity to think, but not just to think from the past to the next life. To touch our amendment, the SDS, so that's it. Why are we proposing an extension to 9 members? It is from this point of view that all relevant institutions in the Supervisory Board may be included here. In this supervisory council, our proposal is absolutely important to support - that in fact it is also a representative of the Chamber of Commerce and an automatic representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Because these two institutions are somehow the most aware or aware of the current economic situation in Slovenia. And then it is important for the Governing Council to actually be able to make the right decisions about the means to which to devote, etc. Therefore, our proposal is important to study it, to actually support it today. We still have some concerns about this decision, which will be dealt with on the working body. Here we also think that a limit should be given here, as is now the case with the Slovenian Enterprise Fund - a million and a half. I think that a limit of 7 million or 10 million would be needed here, because if we don't set limits, one big company or two big companies will be able to get help - and there will be no more money. Then there is an important two-year moratorium on the funds actually committed by the SID Bank, because at this time, which is now a recession, these things would be very important, which would be covered in this decision by the SID of the Bank. That is why I ask you once again, and I appeal to you, too, Mr Minister, as to Members and Members, to accept this amendment as a kind, well-intentioned amendment, in terms of the development of Slovenian companies, and not to look at it in any way on the part of the SDS's proponent, but somehow believe that this is what the Slovenian economy wants. To complete this role and to submit this amendment. That's why we're coming up with this amendment today. Please reconsider and support this SDS amendment that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we're talking about two amendments now. It is one proposed by the SLS Group, which speaks of lowering the criteria needed for the place of administration - not control, as previously said. And I believe that the importance and the new role of this bank is such that it is not particularly necessary to reduce the criteria for appointments. Knowledge alone isn't enough, because then we'd be looking for people with the highest academic addresses for it. There is probably something necessary for the management of such an institution - especially because the structure of this Article 3 we are talking about is so varied, it is not only about the financing of one economic activity - that requires a lot of experience, both economic and other, but also what kind of life there can be no longer. Therefore, I am sure that the denunciation on the names and on the secured seat for anyone is likely to be superfluous. This can never be avoided, nor can it be proved, if this could be proved, then you would probably have arguments or evidence already on the table. Linear reduction from 15 to 14 and so on leads to 0, and so it is true that the number 15 itself is arbitrarily chosen, it is assessed as one that could be appropriate and will seek some political support here in Parliament. It may be necessary because one of the speakers spoke about the administration, but to stress it is not about administration - pardon, it is not about supervision, it is about administration, and they are in different functions of administration and control, with different roles, even in different ways named and also in mutual relations are in a very different position. And once again, this is not a classic commercial bank, but a bank that has a whole range of activities in different areas, but it is already a second amendment that speaks of replacing - first of all, increasing the number of supervisors and then changing the impact of the development service on the Ministry of Finance. With regard to numbers: whether seven, or nine, or eleven, of course is more or less arbitrary, this is decided, but if we want to follow with a number what is written in Article 3 - that is, the area of activity - then there is at least a Minister of Education or Science missing here because it is human resources, or there is a Minister of Environment and Space, because it is housing policy, environmental policy, municipal infrastructure and so on; then there is another Minister missing and then we will even have a government in there. That probably wouldn't make any sense. Also, to suggest that one representative should be mandatory, we are talking about the mandatory representation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the Chamber of Commerce, I think it is not the best proposal to be hectic because I am the chair of this committee, which represents this area, but I am not. Because there are other representative chambers that we do not propose to be here and because there are other activities that this bank covers and we do not have them incorporated into that body. The more written society, as has been said, can be provided by those who will propose these five to the Government, from the Development and European Affairs Service, because they can - I can speak - also propose to someone from the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, so as not to restrict them from proposing anyone else. So we can cover in this way the spectrum of those who should represent those activities, those activities of the bank that are really well-written in Article 3. So, in the DeSUS Group and personally not one and not the other amendment, we do not intend to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Is there still interest in the debate? Yeah, so I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I think it is worth talking about a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act today, because I feel that there is some consensus on both sides that this law is acceptable and necessary in this country. Although we have a bad quarter of all Members and Members present, I will not judge that. I hope some people are in the offices listening to this content. If we already find, if we are already looking for a consensus, that the SID, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, which is a state-owned state-owned country, is the only owner if we help it with recapitalisation where we are united, in order to help develop in an economy where we are happy to pay dividends to the Republic of Slovenia as the only shareholder, which is good, and that even then it is denied to create additional reserves for greater stability and operation. Look, we've actually achieved everything. And I don't think it's appropriate for the spears to break around the amendments. It's only right to talk. First of all, my personal opinion on the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party. It is true that there were some truths that my colleague the predecessor spoke about. But let's be human, let's be human. Look, a member of the board of directors, as this board says, may be someone who has university education, which means, if he's very good, he's 25, 26 years old. If we give up 15 years of required work experience, it means that he is 40, 41 years old. Knowing how young, as well as good, trained, professional personnel are hard to get a job today. The one who graduated at the age of 25 was looking for a job for four years. It means he was 29 when he even got it. If we add 15, that means 45 years of age. Last but not least, we can calculate that, let's say, personally, but I'm not interested, I couldn't be among the board members. Actually, I'm not ashamed to tell you. I asked the proposer. That I do not think about it; I give the example, the SLS's proponent, Mr Žerjav, with all due respect, I appreciate his work, you know that, because he has also proved his work, but with all his knowledge, his conduct could not be a member of the board of directors under the basic law. Let's see some other people, a lot of young people, I believe good people are in the National Assembly. And if we go from professional co-workers to parliamentarians, many cannot come to the AIDS legal committee. I believe that responsibility is great, but I think that in this case the Slovenian People's Party is right. Seven years of experience, seven years of practice means to someone, although a doctor who is 28 years old and has waited two years to get the job, means he's 37 years old. And if he's good and capable and experienced, at least I think that's enough. Because otherwise, we really get into some absurdity. And I don't want to now, please don't politicize, not now say, yes, this is now written, now that side for these structures, this side is obvious to the other structure to kick its people. I don't think this is the time, because we can't politicize this moment. We have to look at it practically. And actually a man with some knowledge with some experience, with some will at 33, 34 years old, with seven years of banking experience, is capable of me and has and should have the right to be a member of the board of directors. That's my personal opinion. I will also try to convince my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party that this amendment is acceptable. More about the SDS amendment will be told by my colleague Silvan, who has dealt with those, but I also say that I will personally support the SDS amendment, because I estimate that there is nothing wrong with it, even though Willy Rezman had something right, but that there is nothing wrong with the five representatives of the professional public and the four representatives of now whose ministries we can start fighting and we will never end the story. [[...]] However, the 9-member Supervisory Board does not seem to be wrong and I find it quite fair and fair that the country, as the owner of the SID Bank, also has a slightly larger view, perhaps more in the supervisory world than it would have had with the two statutory representatives. Colleagues and colleagues, I support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party as a member of the Slovenian National Party, I support the SDS amendment and I expect a constructive debate that this law will be the best because it is one of the first to bring some honesty, some honesty of the power of the country and also the will of this country to give this money to it for further development. I don't think we should fall here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party because I think it is right that young people have the opportunity to come to certain places of responsibility, because they are not otherwise allowed to do so. Problems have arisen for the implementation of the bank and it is therefore important that the SID bank is allowed to function smoothly and have the resources to help the economy. The SID Bank is becoming one of the most important segments of the government to revive the financial system of industrial production, improve access for small and medium-sized enterprises. They would primarily serve to improve the economy. The recapitalisation of 300 million will allow the borrowing of loans, the state will be responsible for the bank's operations and will have full control over the bank's operations in the supervisory board. It will fill the market gap where the risks are higher. Commercial banks that are mostly state-owned will not be allowed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u38	Dear colleague Majhenič, we are discussing the first SLS amendment and the second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let the debate focus on these two amendments. Opportunities for a general debate on the role of SID Bank have already passed. Please limit yourself to the debate on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u39	I'd say I'd support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening an application for discussion. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. The debate is on the first and second amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you again. I wanted to finish the discussion earlier on that, just in your opinion, Mr President, so now I have applied. The amendments proposed by my fellow Members or by the Group of Members, I think they are worth considering. On the other hand, on the other hand, there are some matters in which I believe that there is so much interference with who, from where one of the representatives is supposed to be proposed to personally assess that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry will certainly propose representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, also of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, as those who are experts in the field of development, investment, are certainly members or co-operate with both chambers. However, since the proposal here is also related to at least 15 years of work experience or seven years of work experience, I should also like to take a look here. Personally, I have 20 years of work experience this year, and I must say that it does no harm and that for such responsible work in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u42	I beg for peace in the hall. I apologize. May I have your attention and peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u43	For such a responsible task, i.e. management or coordination, and all that goes on with this task of representative, all these tasks and all that is entrusted, it is certainly right that the work experience is so defined. I don't think any of the young people will mind if there's any more experience in this area. Those of you who have already worked or been ministers or anything else in this area or in any similar area in your life, I believe that you would agree with this, or are long-standing Members. But here also within the Government, as has been said, and the ministries, certainly also all the ministries that have been listed here in this amendment, who should propose five, who should propose one and so on, I think here, if we go for the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, I think that the competent Department for Development and European Affairs is certainly the one that has an important role here, along with the Ministry of Finance and others. But perhaps there is something not quite accurate here too, and perhaps someone else will discuss it. I believe that the proposed amendment of the government is the one that is appropriate. I am sure, however, that the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia will not be excluded here, as it will certainly be thought in this form that someone who knows this area well or even well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to be precise, because it seemed to me that maybe our amendment was a little vaguely exposed in the middle. In our amendment, it does not mean that there will be only seven years of work experience, but it does mean seven years of leadership experience, as it is written. That means work experience is probably more. But it's not necessarily 15-year-olds, they can be 14-, 13-, 12-year-olds. Otherwise, I would like to thank my colleague Barovic for his opinion on my work. However, this amendment definitely does not mean that I am running for office, given that my name is in this opinion. Far from it. It seems important to me that for such an important function we can have a greater choice of the people among whom we will choose; now perhaps a coalition, and next time someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. I would once again touch the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Why is it important for seven years? You know, I have an average employment structure at the company myself under 35 years of age. And believe me, that's the real structure that has the elan that has the momentum. But I don't rule out people who have long experience in this. At 15 years of age, we must not degrade young people who are already in charge of this function. Trust me, this can only be a big plus, not a minus to run this institution. Therefore, I cannot agree with previous speakers who claim and say that 15 years is the criterion that would be appropriate for the management of this institution. That's not true. Believe that then you look at these things in an old-fashioned way, you do not go with the world forward, where the whole world runs: in development and so on. Let me once again touch our amendment, why we have proposed a 9-member committee. It is from this point of view that we should include the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce in this concept. The previous speaker said, "we think anyway to include these people in this part." Thinking is nothing to know. If these things hadn't happened, we'd be looking at each other again. Therefore, it is important to put this as an argument on paper that these things will be covered there, the people at the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. I think that these are important people, very professional people, successful economists and that they would contribute to this SID bank in the supervisory world a lot of good. But do not be afraid that these people will be manipulated, that these people will have privileges and so on. These people will come up with ideas, with things that the economy actually needs. But certainly not with the idea of giving this money, for example, to one person. It is very encouraging that we have made the recapitalisation of the Bank's SID from 140 to 300 million euros this year. Okay. The only question is, this is what economists are asking themselves, as well as that it will be divided into the right hands, but they cannot in the current banking situation among the right economic operators who have a vision of development that they want to invest. At the moment, even banks don't give money for the liquidity of these companies. Once again, I warn and ask you - think about this amendment, because believe me, I want to, and we are all in the SDS together in a charitable way, not against economic operators. We are well aware that the economy is giving money. We are well aware that if we have a good economy, we will have a good culture, we will have good development. But if that's not the case, I'm afraid it's taking everything to waste. So once again, think about it and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u48	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please. There are no replicas here now, but there is a possibility of further discussion. Will you sign up again? [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] Here you go, replica. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you. Since I was mentioned as a previous interlocutor by my fellow Member, I have to take a call. In the framework of the National Assembly, we have also established a Member Business Club, together with colleagues Bezjak, in this Member Business Club, with a view to increasing economic, craft and entrepreneurship, possibly all needs, warnings, on the development segment, further development of craft and entrepreneurship, in order to alert or raise certain issues in this direction in the National Assembly. Therefore, I believe, my colleague, that here when you said - it is not necessary for you to think me to think it is nothing to know when I said that I think or believe that any representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia or the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be named here. Why did I say that? Within the Government, we have a Human Resources Accreditation Council, a KAS called. I don't know who they're going to pick, if not just the representatives of these two chambers. That's what I think. That's why I'm not in a dilemma here, but I know I'm not. I believe you may have concerns, but you too, then we could comment, "Think it's nothing to know!" Therefore, I believe that we agree together and that we want the development of craft and entrepreneurship as well as the economy. But I believe a competent minister without a license, and all the other ministers and the government will certainly listen to us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and good day to all present in the Chamber. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. I would like to comment a little on the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party who do not trust the Minister for European Affairs and Development and think that it must not be the one who proposes representatives of the professional public. I would like to point out that the original text of this article, which was endorsed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, makes it very clear that the Minister for European Affairs and Development is proposing, on the basis of proposals from the professional public, that these are not its representatives. Therefore, I would also like to point out that there is an unusual dictatorship in this amendment, which I stress in the second indent of the amendment, reads "...one member as a representative of the ministry responsible for development and European affairs...". I would like to remind you that there is no Ministry responsible for development and European affairs. You passed such a government law four years ago when the Minister was appointed without a charter for European affairs and development. He was without a license, it is said that the Ministry does not have one and therefore this amendment is defective in itself because you do not realize that the Government Act does not have such a ministry. As is not the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, but she is the Minister for this area and we have the Office of the Government for European Affairs and Development, and we have the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. It is necessary to be a little more precise, since in the National Assembly, if we accept the amendment, this is an amendment that remains the same in the law. Secondly, when we talk about the professional public, we know that according to the activity of the individual institution, in this case the SID of the bank, depending on what profession it is. Certainly not in this supervisory council will the representatives of the agricultural professional public be appointed, or let me say, agriculture within the meaning of the Faculty of Agriculture, not even the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, but certainly in the professional field covered by the SID Bank. And given that the SID Bank Act is being amended primarily to help the economy, in particular the smaller companies, not only the very large ones, it is logical that representatives of those people, those companies that need it, will also be in this supervisory council. One more thing. In the amendment, you stated that, as an expert public, one representative on a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and one on a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, you have forgotten that we also have one chamber created after the compulsory membership of the Chamber of Commerce was abolished. Doesn't this one deserve to be represented? I think it would be best if we proposed names and surnames as to who would be in this supervisory council. Wouldn't it be easier? Then the Human Resources Accreditation Council would have less work to do. We'd best go with such an amendment. And then every five years, given how long these members will be on the SID Board of the Bank, then you'll be proposing new names or the same names again in so many years. I think it is necessary, however, to have self-control in proposing your amendments and to be careful not to propose things that are at least, which are too tendingly written down. You only admit one chamber covering the economy. There may also be a representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which eventually covers a very large area of the economy. In the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber there are members of the processing animal industry. Suggest, for God's sake! I don't think you've been very precise here. I can't say anything but that such inadequacy amendments cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Is there still a wish to apply? Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. When we discuss these amendments relating to the composition of the SID Board of Banks, I became attentive when I listened to my colleague in the office earlier, the last time she spoke with full confidence about how the Ministry or the Development and European Affairs Service would place the best people in this supervisory council far from the best. I don't mind a colleague who has little experience with his government so blindly trusting. I have a little more experience and I know that there is no case left in the financial field of this option. Therefore, this assurance that people will be chosen only by professional references, I must say that they are not so blindly trusted. Things will be strictly controlled here, I'm sure. Even if it's big money. And since it's obviously going to be in this marriage and all of this, I have to say that the intention of this bank and also the SID of society is positive and must be saved. But I don't trust, on the basis of some of the circumstances that I've seen here, that it's actually what's being proclaimed. I don't know what's going to happen to this money when there's a guarantee state in the back here, or there's not gonna be any repair of some tycoon investment, and so on. This has already given me the opportunity to know that the Social Democrats, when presenting the Group of Members, were not difficult to artillery, despite their due respect for the colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u54	Comrade Jerovšek, we remain within the framework of the amendments. There'll be another time about artillery. We'll talk about artillery another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u55	Well, it's a metaphor that's common and it's known exactly what it's all about. But so I think there's something camouflaged. Something is camouflaged, some who know how things are going to go forward have retreated back at this stage. For this reason, I think it is wise to at least allow a greater spectrum of the composition of the supervisory board, as we propose with our amendment, that at least the potential for the interests of our economy to decide what the positions of this bank will be and how this will work, although, I must say again, the colleague also said that this will be the Human Resources Administrative Council. I'm sure when it comes to money, ministers will find a solution like Kresalo at the police station right away. If you have walked every living thing, every living thing that's controlled by appointment, you will choose your own rules. And it'll be the same here. The Human Resources-Administrative Council, however, tell them to wave with it. This is just a fog for naive and human resources principles in this government are strictly controlled and implemented. And look, I saw there at the railroad control council. Our Member warned that people had a conflict of interest, and they continued to know that. But of course dedication is decided, commitment to this authority and such principles are decided. Instead of avoiding what is already ahead from the plane, it is obvious that this should not be the case. And once again, if you have serious intentions, if you have the right intention to help the economy, that bank will be in the role of crisis response, then support this amendment to be transparent and transparent, so that we at least have the opportunity. Because I'm so afraid that in any case, he's going to be practicing in the back, and he's going to be doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Please, Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my colleague very much for his well-meaning advice or opinion. There is certainly no more experience in this government, so on 21 December 2008 we confirmed this government and I think it is a fact. However, I believe that this judgment is here, as you know, I would not have answered, but I did, mainly because in my 20-year or 17-year-old work in the bank, I remember that in this area of finance we have always worked with the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and others. That is why I believe and trust this government that it will also come here professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. When this law is passed, the Minister for European Affairs will no longer be Minister without a licence, but will be Minister with a very large document. At least EUR 300 million, which is the bank's capital, and the hand, the majority of the supervisory council that will manage this bank, will be held by the Minister for European Affairs. Thus, this law creates a position and situation that will no longer be in line with the Government Act, as we bring to the Ministry of European Affairs and the development of direct powers over the control of the large banking segment. Unfortunately, the warnings we gave in our parliamentary group did not fall on fertile soils, not on the government, nor on the coalition. And unfortunately, this bank completely withdraws from the supervision of that district minister who is originally responsible for the banking system under the Government Act. This is the Minister of Finance. I don't think any government, any government, any government, and an organised government can afford to make such "by passports", such systems, and that some minister would allow himself, and that the government would also allow him to do this to a kindergarten in which he would garden past the regulations, past the government law. As for the amendment that has been tabled. Here I would first support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which shortens this required length of 15 years. As the basic text of the law is written, someone who has roots in the National Bank of Yugoslavia may be on the board of the bank, others are all too young after these experiences. It is said that we are also building a system in this area, some connection to 15 years or more. This is when we had the National Bank of Yugoslavia as a roof institution. I think we have also raised some good economic and financial experts, including other experts, who would be able to work in such an institution during this period of independence. And if I continue to find only that we have some financial systems in this country that are significantly larger than the SID of the bank that we are currently setting up, I do not know if any of these large systems, such as the Ljubljana Bank, the New Credit Bank of Maribor, also any other bank, may have a requirement in the administrative body of this bank that someone with at least 15 years of experience may have. We're making some completely abnormal demands. However, the proposal that we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think it is consistent, in particular, with regard to the Government Act and with regard to the competences of individual sector ministers. We believe that a key weight and responsibility in this bank, including in the appointment of supervisory authorities, must be given to those who, by their function, have control over such a banking system - this is the Ministry of Finance. This is who should be the key proponent. They can also, and we support, proposers of other departments, because the supervision of an institution that is supposed to be involved in such an activity as the SID of the Bank is also interdisciplinary, concerns other resources, including the economic development sector, including the regional development sector and so on. It's a perfectly normal thing. And since this bank is intended primarily or originally to service economic activities, economic activities, to promote development in this area, it is perfectly normal to include the most important institutions in this area in the supervisory body. This is a proposal we have made to include a representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia in the supervisory body. Other chambers, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, are less important, they are not who would belong to this system. That's what they are. And if you think, say, on the other hand, that anyone else needs to be added to this control system, then you can suggest it peacefully. You had time to think, the amendments were put in early enough, and you could add a lot of your own. I think that in the supervisory authorities, especially because the SID Bank will also deal with a specific activity, we should put in the supervisory authorities a proper spectrum and a set of people who will participate in this control. I do not think that the choice or proposal as adopted is most appropriate for the bank. If we want to return and align the powers of the ministries with the Government Act - and this law is one that breaks this concept - then this amendment should simply be adopted. I don't think it's necessary for working hours to be as long as they are laid down in the law. And that is why I support, in addition to our amended amendment, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would start this debate on these amendments with rivers, the cases that people had at a time when we had union trips, as it was said, how some men are, don't mind, this story is like that. My husband never let his wife go with his colleagues on a union trip. And why do you think that was? Because he didn't trust his wife to do what he did when he went on a union trip with his colleagues. This is an example that very much reminds me of the behavior of colleagues in the National Assembly who do not believe that this government is for a solid purpose and is also pursuing this purpose, and has decided to look for professional and capable people who will perform individual functions, regardless of what political colours they are. It is most desirable, as I have seen so far, that political color is as clear or as no one can be, and even this is revealed that it is sometimes even more desirable to be a little more right than a left. But that's just my comment. However, I would like to say that the text of this Article, which is so highly processed, is very clear in paragraph 4 that a member of the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Government. It's not a nursery for this, one or the third minister, but it's a government nursery if it's a kindergarten. Second. The only representatives, who are not representatives of the Government or government departments, are representatives of the professional public proposed by the Minister responsible for development and European affairs. Two members are representatives of two ministries, yes. So here is basically the wrong attitude to say that when we talk about representatives of a public, whether it's professional or any other civil society or anything else, that we can't talk about being a person's authority or kindergarten. This professional public will be invited to propose their representatives as members of the SID Supervisory Board of the Bank. And the Human Resources Accreditation Council, I know that's a hard word, but some people here in this country can't possibly understand this accreditation. This is something similar when it comes to diplomatic representatives, and they get accreditation, by the way. So it's definitely not about any manipulations under the table, games or anything like that. That's why I said sarcastically earlier that it would probably be best if we just proposed names and surnames not to complicate ourselves with extra work. But once again, my colleagues from the SDS, the Ministry responsible for regional development and the Ministry responsible for development and European affairs are not, and therefore there can be no representative in the supervisory board of the SID of the Bank, who would be a representative of the Ministry of one and another. He may be a representative of the Ministry of Finance, but he cannot be a representative of the Ministry that does not exist. The amendment is disabled. Pika. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much. It's not time to say goodbye. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, welcome. Look, I had senior representatives from Austria with us a while ago. In Parliament and certain things I have shown and said certain things. When I said we had 19 ministries, they crossed their heads. A small country like us, 2 million dollars, it's just Vienna. The Danish or Austrians have 13 ministries. We are spreading, spreading some things into bureaucracy, which does not lead to the fertile background of the development of Slovenia. The predecessors always talk, we have a purpose, we have a purpose. Why do we want to have the key names of institutions such as the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia? Just so that this development actually goes faster, just to avoid some manipulation, some things that don't lead to the development of this country. Mrs Pečanova has previously told the ministries. You know, ministries will be employed in this supervisory council, not that people from ministries will be placed in the supervisory board of the Chamber of Commerce or Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. If it is written that there will be representatives of ministries in the supervisory council, then it is strictly stated that people who are employed at the Ministry, but not that people from the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce and Industry may be in. Why did we actually give only these two chambers? There's a lot of this room. But all the other chambers, believe me, are somehow connected in these two chambers. All the newly formed chambers were made from these two chambers. Everyone is looking in this small Slovenia for their corner or their garden where you want to knit flowers. Unfortunately, one day we need to start talking about how to start combining and making a large field and producing fruit, vegetables on this field, so that we can live a healthy life. Not that everyone at their kindergarten will produce one onion or one apple, which will then be too expensive for us citizens to eat. This is the way and this is the purpose and the thinking that we must go in. The purpose of this amendment is also to want to have good people, capable people who will actually defend the direction and control the direction of development and recommend companies and listen to companies in a difficult situation, which will then be able to acquire development resources, to further develop the economy in Slovenia. So once again, let me ask you to think smartly about things and let things actually be strictly defined in each act. If things are poorly defined in marriages, there is always room for manipulation. We don't want things to be badly written to make things bad. We just want to avoid institutions, people for manipulation. This is the amendment we propose. Once again, we are not proposing it for the sake of color, and we are proposing it for the development of an economy that will have the right foundations so that we can actually build a large Slovenia on these foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. That is all I would tell my colleague Bezjak that there are not 19 ministries, but there are 15, plus one Prime Minister of the Government plus 3 ministers without a license, one minister and two ministers without a license. Together, there are 19 important people in the government, but only 15 are ministries. And that's why I'm saying this amendment doesn't drink water. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to remind you that when you talk about the Chamber of Commerce, from which new chambers have been created, everything is fine and right, but the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy has a mandatory membership, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has a mandatory membership and has not changed, except that the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture has changed its membership price. While the Chamber of Commerce is no longer what it was. And we can't talk about other chambers that were formed after the breakup, after the dissolution of compulsory membership, that these are some daughters who cooperate with each other and I don't know what else. The Chamber of Commerce is representative, the Chamber of Commerce is representative and if you follow this logic, then you should have both your representatives as you wish in this Supervisory Council. So, let's stick to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's no replica to the replica. If you'd like to discuss it, please apply. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He does.]] So I'm asking you to sign up. Time's enough. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Now the order has turned. We talk a lot about the Human Resources Accreditation Council here. This Human Resources Accreditation Council is kind of losing its role. Already with the Minister of the Interior's announcement that he wants a different procedure than through the Human Resources Accreditation Council, it means that this institution, which you have created artificially, will obviously not play the same important role for everyone. And it would be appropriate to be consistent in these actions that the Government has announced, particularly the Prime Minister. It is not, however, that a month after these Human Resources Accreditation Councils were established, some ministers would choose a completely different direction and other concept as envisaged. And they probably even have the support of the Prime Minister. In these cases where you refer, you are not consistent. With regard to the recruitment or appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, yes, they are appointed by the Government, but on a proposal. And if this proposal is not available, then the government cannot appoint them. If the Minister of Finance does not propose a member for the Supervisory Board, then the Government cannot appoint him. And if the five members of the Supervisory Board are not proposed by the Minister responsible for development and European affairs, the Government cannot appoint them. Therefore, it is very important who is the one who is given a mandate by law to the Government to propose. We propose that this is the portfolio minister, the finance minister, the one who has a role in this system because it is a banking institution, a key task, a key responsibility and a key role. And as we propose, it follows from the Government Act, on the powers of individual departments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And if there is a dispute for a fellow ministry responsible for development and European affairs, I announce the oral correction of the amendment we have proposed. Instead of writing everywhere where we wrote "ministerial, competent," we write "minister responsible for." I suggest that you take further account of the amendment as orally corrected. At the same time, I would like to point out that some who have been appointed to the administration, such as Kad, which is a much more difficult institution than this SID bank, are also much more diverse, do not meet the condition of at least 15 years. And they didn't go through the Human Resources-According Council procedure. And also some of the moves that they have taken and appointed to the supervisory board of other companies have not gone through the Human Resources Accreditation Council, although it was already established. I'm sorry that, above all, those who talk so much about consistency, even in their own kind, you don't take into account what you're saying so vehemently. And it is obvious that the Human Resources Accreditation Council is not competent to appoint relatives of some important political February in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Just a moment, I just wanted to point out that you have to submit the proposed amendment in writing before the vote. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. I would like to thank Mrs Pecan for the more professionally said 15 ministries, after all, the state has 19 sources, the citizens are thinking and looking at these things as I said before. To add to this, because in the previous debate I did not actually touch the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. It is true that former Minister Žerjav was not the leader of any bank, but was the leader of an economic operator. Why, since he lacks so much work experience for 15 years, would he not be able to run one such institution? It is true that it has not been led by expertise now, but that is why we propose or the Slovenian People's Party proposes a 7-year limit, which is a credible limit, not 15 years. And for our amendment, once again, it is true that the Chamber of Commerce now has credibility, the Chamber of Commerce has the same credibility as the Chamber of Commerce. Once again, all the other chambers came from these two chambers. Therefore, there is no good extension to more kindergartens and so on. You said the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture and Land have a mandatory membership. Yeah. But the question is, how long? In these chambers, members are very disagreeable. I myself said at the Round Table of the Chamber of Commerce that the Chamber should take a step towards craftsmen, not that craftsmen should ask the Chamber for certain things. At that time, no one will be able to counteract and not be indignant that mandatory membership is good. With the then and present President, as well as with the Member, we have absolutely agreed with Mr Clooney. These are the things that keep us going. Once again, why did we include these two chambers in this part? Because they are combining the Slovenian economy. We must not forget that the Farm-landing Chamber is actually excluded from this key or any other chamber. But in the control world, only these two people and the people of these two people, who, by knowledge, are capable of controlling, controlling the SID, the bank as we actually have it. We know there's a lot of money here that's actually going to be shared for the development of the economy. Here I believe that there must be capable people who will actually properly monitor and properly defend this position and this representativeness of the Bank's SID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Yuri, he really didn't report the time for discussion, so I can't give you my word. I ask whether I can consider that there is no longer interest in discussing amendments to the law. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on amendments and on the law. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item, which is the next item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this agenda. And we're going to go to 6. POINT OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE INSURANCE LAW, AN EMERGENCY PROCEDURE. The proposal was tabled by the Government, representatives of the Government are Dr. Franz Cross, mag. Helena Kamnar and Irena Erjavec. Mr. Secretary wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u71	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly introduce the amendments or additions to the Income Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes minimum but necessary changes to the law in the work relating to investment relief. Amendments are needed in order to substantially simplify the investment facility under the Income and Income Tax Act. The Law on corporate income tax, which was adopted by the National Assembly in January of this year, has brought some substantive news about the facilitation of investment. Consequently, the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax are not harmonised in the work relating to investment relief. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the arrangements for investment relief under both laws should be uniform, in such a way as to enable natural persons who carry out activities to apply in 2008, 2009 and 2010 a relief for investment in buses, with an engine which meets the minimum emission requirements of EURO IV, and that an exemption for investment in trucks with an engine meeting the minimum emission requirements of EURO V may also be applied in 2009 and 2010 and not only in 2008, as provided for in the current Income Act. The proposed changes will prevent an unjustified distinction between incorporated and non-incorporated economic operators or between legal and natural persons. Since the deadline for the payment of the tax invoice for 2008 is 31 March 2009, a solution is also proposed which will allow for the subsequent application of the relief, within the framework of the Institute for the correction of the tax bill, within 30 days of the implementation of the proposed amendments. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the proposed amendments to the Income Act be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the vice president of the committee, mag. Happy Zerjav, for the presentation. [[He's not here.]] There is no representative of the parent working body, so we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u73	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister of Finance with Fellowship, Honourable Member and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. The law is necessary because a number of small companies involved in the auto-transport activity organised in the status form are independent entrepreneurs, and therefore in the provision of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons adopted on 14 January this year, which provides an incentive for investment in buses and trucks whose engines meet at least the emission requirements of EURO IV for buses or EURO V for freight vehicles, this investment facility does not apply to these companies. The adoption of the Act already raised the issue of equal tax treatment, irrespective of the status organisation of taxpayers. This important principle of equal tax treatment will also be established with the proposed amendment of the law. The purpose of the proposal is therefore to enable the application of an investment facility for both 2008 and 2009 and 2010 also for investments in buses and freight vehicles which, under the basic provision of Article 66a of the Income Act, are not considered to be equipment for investments for which tax relief may be imposed. Finally, we must not overlook the favourable environmental consequences of such a relief for the purchase of modern trucks and buses, as well as assistance to small but very important companies in overcoming both the financial and economic crises. Therefore, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to the Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act. The Basic Income Law, which was made in the framework of the 2006 tax reform itself, abolished investment incentives and facilitated investment in R & D. In 2008 the former government listened in particular to comments and reinstated additional investment facilities, in the form of a 20% reduction in the tax base with a cap of EUR 10 000 per year and also a limit of EUR 10 000 after years of investment, the debtor still has the option. It is also limited by the law that relief is not possible for certain equipment, including motor vehicles. As a restriction, however, the law has removed freight motor vehicles which meet certain emission requirements set by the EVRO VI engine, which are not yet produced by the Automobile Associations and are unlikely to be produced for some time. It is true, however, that the transitional provisions provide for the granting of relief in 2008 to freight vehicles which comply with the emission requirements of EVRO V and are not covered by buses. By amending the Income Act, which we carried out in December 2008, we have partially amended the law and increased the relief from 20% to 30% of the invested amount, but we have not corrected this inadequacy, which means making it easier for EVRO V, EVRO VI and whether this applies also to buses and not only to freight motor vehicles. In January 2009, we already settled this in the law on corporate income tax. We added these reliefs. All those organised as economic societies can already benefit from this. However, since many carriers engaged in transport activities organised in the status form are also independent entrepreneurs, it is also considered that the law provides for a situation such as that of companies. We are assessing that the changes introduced by this law will equalise the position of carriers when buying environmentally sound means of transport, whether they are trucks or buses. With all the changes, we will also be able to benefit from this relief for the 2008 tax relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Černač will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u77	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Notwithstanding the fact that the business possibilities for dealing with this point, because there is no one by the Government or by the Minister or by the Secretary of State present, are not met, I think I can present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party that will support this change. The amendment, as has already been said, amounts to relief for trucks and buses for 2008, 2009 and 2010 for s.p.'s with those which we have recently legislated by amending the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons for other entities. The bill was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the legislative procedure, he was then frustrated to such an extent that there was something small left, and most of it was exempt from the law, which is why we decided again at this meeting or rejected it. The amendment of this law is also justified by the Government as a proponent who says: "The basic principle of the bill is the same tax treatment of natural persons who carry out an activity with regard to the facilitation of investment as is the case with legal persons." Such a position must, of course, be supported and supported all the time in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It is interesting, however, that equality in taxes applies to the Government and the ruling coalition only when they propose. However, when it comes to the proposal of the other Members, particularly Members and Members of the opposition, this equality of twos is no longer applicable. I am talking, of course, about the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, where we have proposed exactly the same in the field of tax incentives for investment. We have proposed that the tax incentives for investing in new technologies and equipment that legal persons can make the most of, at most, EUR 30,000, be equal to the benefits of the S.P.s, which are paid at 30% of the investment, which is worth a million euros in investment, which is a tenfold difference. There, however, the principle of equal tax treatment of legal and natural persons, which, in the case of this Income Act, is advocated by the Government, and which is right, is not applicable. Why? Apparently only because the proposalr wasn't right. However, as we are talking today about amending the Income Act, in line with the new government paradigm, we would expect to get a broader, more comprehensive amendment on the table, in particular on the part concerning taxation of property. We listen every day to how the burden of the changed economic situation must be borne to a greater extent by those who deserve more. So, of course, we would reasonably expect the Government to make use of this legislative procedure that we have on the table today and to come in line with this new paradigm by changing the tax classes, which would mean significantly higher taxation of those who earn significantly more, or those to whom state banks and state-owned enterprises pay millions of emoluments or Euros. I'm afraid there's no such proposal. So let's be honest, the impression of this new paradigm is just the creation of an appropriate performance in public, but it is certainly not meant to do anything in this area, and thus also to ease the burden of those who remain without one of the fundamental constitutional rights, this is the right to work. The Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group, as I announced at the outset, will be supported by this amendment of the Income Act, which equates legal entities irrespective of the formal form of organisation, and we hope that this support to the Government will also come to some conclusion that it will only understand that the rejection of the amendment of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, which does not respect this principle of equal tax treatment, is not a good one, and that this law will also need to be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems that the bill before us will receive universal support. The content has now been presented several times, so there is no point in repeating it. Let me just say that the DeSUS Group also supports this bill. What might be worth saying in this is that we are simply eliminating the discrimination that has been established by this law, that we are now following the principle that it must be treated equally, and that we are eliminating a delay that has arisen needlessly, because we have not responded in due time to the oral and written comments of the economy that have gone in this direction, which the applicant is now summarizing. What is disturbing about this law, at least for us, is the way or procedure we adopt it. There is absolutely no reason for us to adopt this law on an urgent basis, since, as you know, an urgent procedure under the rules of procedure is necessary when a State is threatened, there is a danger when it comes to correcting the consequences of natural disasters or the irreparable consequences for the functioning of the State. As a result of this additional tax relief, none of the three business reasons mentioned above can be justified. For this reason, in particular, it is not because, already in the first article, since this law has only two articles, it states that the time limit for the application of this law is thirty days after its entry into force. So to put it this way, whenever we accept it, we are still in good time; late but still in good time. And it is embarrassing that those who propose such a procedure are forcing us to break the rules of procedure. Therefore, this comment by DeSUS seemed worth mentioning, and we will wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues, colleagues. There is nothing wrong with Article 1 of the amended Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we want those who want to serve their bread to have the most favourable conditions for the purchase of cargo motor vehicles with engines that meet the requirements of EURO V, buses with engines that meet the requirements of EURO IV, and that is right to do so. And I don't know why there's so much debate and debate. However, I hope that in terms of the consensuality of laws with the laws of other ministries, we all know something else together - that those who live by transport should have modern, clean, safe trucks, as cheaply as possible, to buy them and to drive them to serve. But someone else, from another ministry, will have to know, under this condition, where we please these people, that these gentlemen will have to pay more than they pay when paying for the reconstruction of Slovenian roads. For, ladies and gentlemen, the current laws that say that cubic centimeters destroy roads, but not sinks, I think since this law has been in existence for so long, it is high time that this law also changes. I do not want to be unfriendly or hateful, but it is true that as many tax reliefs as possible to truckers, bus drivers - yes, safe driving, successful driving. On the other hand, when the country adopts this proposal for a law that we will support and adopt in the Slovenian National Party and give this favourable opportunity to purchase new trucks, it must be aware that these people will pay slightly more when they destroy roads with 20, 40 tonnes. Once again, the roads don't destroy cubic centimeters, the passenger car has a ton and a half, and it would be a price, and I'm thinking, if you pay, the euro and a half. A truck with 40 tons would pay 40 euros. That's how it is, and that's how it has to be. First of all, we offer in the National Assembly a law that allows those who live with it, who have a truck or bus transport of bread, to obtain under the most favourable conditions a tax burden, to obtain fixed assets at the most favourable values. But when they make their own bread, so now they have this option, of course they will also have to pay some taxes. And here I want to make a comparison with other investments. We are in favour of giving people the opportunity not to pay taxes on investments - also for other activities, I give a comparison - for some time to establish, and then they must pay taxes fairly, like everyone else. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act, and I hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible. We wish all vehicle buyers as much happiness as possible, as much profit as possible, as much creation, work; once again, I would like to stress that the National Assembly will have to make a reverse picture this year or the second year; so gentlemen, when you have succeeded, now you will also pay a fair price for our roads! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Amendments to the Law on corporate income tax adopted in January of this year include provisions that taxpayers may also impose a tax benefit on corporate income in 2008 for investments in buses and trucks whose engines meet different emission requirements. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the solutions to the law before us because we agree with the basis of the proposal, which, as the basic principle of the bill, defines the same tax treatment of natural persons engaged in activities with legal persons. Many companies engaged in transport activities are organised in the status form of s.p. and it is right that they can impose the same benefits as companies. But at this point, unfortunately, I can't get past one fact. Unfortunately, I don't have a typical political selective memory. Yesterday, with respect, a solution was rejected in the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which upheld the same principle, the principle of equal tax treatment of natural persons engaged in activities and companies, and the difference is essential. Yesterday we defended the principle of equality by representatives of political parties from the opposition, today defended by the government and the government coalition. Unfortunately, I can only find out the sad reality of Slovenian political space: white is white in one case and black in the other when it does not please someone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will remain consistent this time and we will support the proposed solutions to the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a law, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment and we are moving on to the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, this is at 13.03. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 13.03 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the meeting, this is with the termination of the 5th item of the agenda - and we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, urgent procedure. We continue to consider this by deciding on the two amendments tabled to Article 6 of this Act. Anybody want a word? Explanation of voice. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, first of all article 6 of the law. Anybody want a word? Please. I'm giving you time to report. Mr. Radovan Žerjav, please. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, this amendment to Article 6 somehow opens up a greater choice of good staff to manage this important institution. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that there is no need to limit 15 years of working time in this case, because the one talking about the seven-year performance of some managerial functions is completely sufficient. And it is right that we do not restrict any professional staff with such limitations, which could also apply and run for these important functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anyone want to explain their voice in their personal name? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the revised amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 6. On behalf of the Group of Members, Magi applied for explanations of vote. A visor. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. At the time of addressing this point or this amendment, it has been made clear that it is an important government instrument, a development instrument, especially in the context of the resolution of the financial and economic crisis, with new tasks and also with a new concept and the recapitalisation of this bank. If this is true, then in all tasks this bank must also have in the supervisory world people who can represent these interests of the Government and in some way affect the mission, tasks and performance of this bank. Therefore, we have proposed that the Bank's supervisory board should include representatives of those key ministries that are still somehow linked to the content, measures and tasks of the Bank's extended powers. It seems to us that there is a direct link between government policies and the authorities of this institution. This is one of the important reasons why we have proposed a change in the composition of the Supervisory Board with this amendment. The second reason is that, according to the existing proposed text, one is actually illustrating the power of one, that is, the development minister, in this bank, which I do not think is the concept and context of this company or that bank, which is written by its powers and tasks. That is why we have proposed that representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce are also in the Supervisory Board, as it has been repeatedly stressed that measures and tasks are particularly linked to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and also to credit and financial instruments. We therefore believe that the proposed structure of the Supervisory Board is closer to what the Bank is supposed to serve and at the same time provide adequate supervision, since it is an expert rather than an official or otherwise politically declared personality. That is why I believe that the proposed amendment and the proposed supervisory council is much closer and the SID mission of the bank and, last but not least, the challenges of this bank in the future. That is why, of course, we will support this amendment in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In a personal name? Not at all. We're moving to the vote. I am putting to the vote an amendment, a revised amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 6. We're voting. There are 78 in attendance, 34 in favour, 43 in favour. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been adopted. Since the proposed amendments to the law were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We are therefore going to vote on the law. We're voting. There are 79 present, 54 votes against 0. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 6th point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income. The amendment was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in Article 1 of the bill and I am moving on to a decision on this amendment. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, for 34, for 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As the amendment has not been adopted, we are moving on to a full vote on the law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. (The vote was 79.)(Nobody.) I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 8th item of the agenda - we are considering the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amendment, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree. In doing so, I inform you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or by the Government that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're moving to a vote on the decree. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the Commission's 2007 report on anti-corruption. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the Commission's report on anti-corruption in 2007. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the Commission's report on anti-corruption in 2007 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decision to draw on the point of European funding in Slovenia. The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to the draft decision. First of all, I am putting this proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the decision. Mr. Blackach. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the decision proposed by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We will support the Commission's decision on the supervision of public finances, as summarized in our amendment, because it provides an impetus and support for the Government to continue its activities in drawing on European funds and supporting simplification in the area of project administration. It concludes from the Court of Auditors that in 2007 as many European funds as were planned were not used. The debate explained why this was the case, was the first year, and operational programmes were confirmed until the end of 2007. On the other hand, it also maintains the Court of Auditors’ conclusion in the same report that the Republic of Slovenia was a net recipient of European funds in 2007, however, resulting from the report on the 29th page. "The net position of the Republic of Slovenia without recipients outside the State budget and the net position of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole were positive. The Republic of Slovenia, as a whole, received from the European budget for 31 million, three hundred and thirty thousand two hundred and eighty more than was paid in 2007" - the Court of Auditors found in its report when it watched the use of European funds for 2007. However, this amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, is all the more important to support in the light of the new data provided by the 2009 government budget rebalancing, where the expected inflows from this title, i.e. inflows from European funds for projects, are reduced by €13 million. However, the Republic of Slovenia’s payments to the European Community’s budget are increasing by €52 million. I think it is important, with the support of this amendment, to give the right direction and signal to the Government also by this High Council that, in situations where we are as important as ever in the past, we do everything to ensure that activities in the field of faster use of European funds not only continue, but also accelerate their implementation. We can be concerned that we are in March and there are still no calls for this area. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment as a small contribution to the faster and more active functioning of the government in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, in your own name? Does anyone else want to discuss or explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening applications. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and, in fact, adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, because of the clear messages they carry. Of course, I will not support the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government because they further complicate and make matters more confusing. Why? In fact, the government and the coalition have a very unrecognizable and bad policy associated with the use of European funds. Why? Firstly, a change in the institutional structure was announced when the funds were drawn up immediately after the elections, and no one knows whether the Government is still involved or not and what will happen. Redefinition and change of development priorities and, consequently, key programmes and targets were announced and nothing has happened again. The conclusions predict a whole set of analyses, verifications, reflections, and nothing knows what is essential: who and how it will speed up the use of European funds so that Slovenia implements these funds into concrete projects as soon as possible, so that these projects begin to produce relevant results and value added. This is the purpose of European funds. In addition, the Court found that even less resources were planned in the balance sheet than the previous government had planned for 2009. This means that, on the one hand, there are confusional messages and, on the other hand, unambitious and unsurpassed pumping and calling for an ever-new analysis. Of course, I can't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Slovenian Social Democrats. We're voting. [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me? Slovenian Democratic Party, SDS. Thank you very much. Can we vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the proposed conclusions to draw European funds? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 28 for and 46 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party has not been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment to the proposal for a decision and are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision in its entirety. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm opening time for an application. Mr Černač applied on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of this Decision, which has six points, we will not support it, even though we agree with some of the elements of this Decision, and if the votes on them were separate, we would also confirm that in some parts this Decision is covered by what has been adopted by the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and which we have also proposed in the form of an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. This decision, as it will be adopted, puts the National Assembly in a strange position. Yesterday, I said that in one particular part, this is a decision to go back that brings nothing for the future. I have shown in the case of what this decision means, whether we will have out of the thousands of projects that we received in the material for which funds were granted during the new financial perspective 2007-2013, hundreds of municipalities are from this title, more than a hundred municipalities have received funds from this title, went to look, I said, a water supply to Novo Gorica or a water supply to Brežice. Are we going to watch the city’s core arrangements in Kranj or another congregation? Probably not, because we all know that these funds are being controlled, that they have control mechanisms and that such a conclusion, as proposed here, is inadequate. On the other hand, it is necessary to reiterate that this was repeatedly stressed yesterday by the coalition Members, that in 2007 we were net contributors to the EU and not net recipients of funds, that this decision, which was obviously proposed, was also based on the wrong sub-menu. That you actually believed what some people were telling you and that you obviously failed to read the Court of Auditors report, which unequivocally states that the Republic of Slovenia was not a net payer in 2007, but a net recipient of funds from the European Union. I said more than €31 million 330.380 before, but of course in this same report, it is true that the funds, as planned in 2007, were not fully used. Hold it! However, we were net recipients. They were not exploited because 2007 was the first year of the new financial perspective, nothing negotiated in 2005 will be lost. Even more, you are given a greater opportunity for activities that are essential and essential more than when the economy has already been overheated, now you have a very important quota of money that you can use qualitatively to reduce the consequences of slowing down economic growth. According to the rebalancing forecast, unfortunately, you're not going this way. That is also why your proposals for conclusions go in the opposite direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 33. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 33.]] The proposal for a decision on the drawing-up of European funds in Slovenia is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Period of the agenda - This is for the defence proposal of the law on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the French Republic on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the second reading did not adopt any amendments, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND ON THE EXCHANGE AND THE INTERMINAL PROTECTION OF SECRET DATA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 75 Members and Members present, 72 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 6th A-point of the agenda - Defence proposal for a law on the temporary reduction of the salaries of the functionaries, urgent procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely, the Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Classification of Certain Functions of the Legislature in Salary Classes, the first hearing submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Bojan Kontic, and the Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Reduction of the Salaries of Officials, the urgent procedure submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice decided, at the time of its consideration of those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the motions for additional explanations. I give the floor to a representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken austerity measures in the area of public sector wages as part of the economic policy of the country, as it had to reduce the volume of public financial expenditure [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u97	Colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you to listen to me so the Minister can present her views.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u98	to align these with the real possibilities of the country. [[...]] Wage savings measures therefore represent the whole of the measures and will achieve a reduction in the projected wage growth in the public sector in 2009 from 9.9% to 7.1%, meaning 0.3 GDP, thereby ensuring the stability of public finances in the area of wages in 2009. In an important part, wage interventions were the subject of social dialogue, and for officials it was necessary to draw up a special law supplemented by the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee on the decision of the esteemed assembly. Seizures to wages are temporary in nature due to the limited impact of the financial crisis. The law foresees that wages will be reduced to all officials by deducting 4% from their salary or by reducing them by one wage class. I would like to point out that this is a temporary measure that will last for a year, but it is by no means a change in the relationship between the individual officials of all kinds of authorities, namely the judicial, legislative and enforcement measures which are all now regulated by this regulation. I stress this because the salaries set out in the mandate of the previous government have been wrongly established, inconsistent with the Constitution, and the proposal of the Government, which will address these imbalances, will come before the National Assembly. This regulation will reduce salaries to 1.690 current officials as well as 55 former officials. This will mean EUR 2.8 million less public spending per year as far as the regulation applies. I propose to the esteemed National Assembly to support the regulation, and I reiterate that this is not a symbolic gesture. In fact, it is one of the measures in the overall set of measures, which means significant lower public financial expenditure in the public sector in 2009. Officials are also one of the rare ones whose salaries are falling in 2009. All other civil servants with salaries and salaries set out in the public sector collective agreement will, I will say, suffer a pay gap in 2009 due to the non-compliance of wage imbalances. Wages will not be aligned with inflation, which will also affect officials and also civil servants' salaries. It is a policy in the field of regression, in short, as the Government has managed to agree with the public sector unions. So, as I suggested, the government proposes to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Kontić, the representative of the proposed parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law on the temporary classification of certain legislative functions in wage classes. With a decision and a proposal, we have proposed that Members and Members themselves reduce their salaries. This is a so-called self-limiting measure. The President of the National Assembly, all three Vice-Presidents, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and all other Members and Members would be ranked one lower class on the basis of the adoption of our law. Even though the government has announced austerity measures and wage cuts for all officials, we have decided to lower our salaries ourselves. I welcome the Government's decision to leave in its law the reduction of parliamentary salaries to us here in the National Assembly, and thus symbolically to preserve the independence of the two branches of government. The government has therefore proposed a reduction in the salaries of officials and proposes it by means of its law, thus putting a draft law on the temporary reduction of salaries of officials into parliamentary treatment. The parent working body has decided to combine both procedures into a comprehensive proposal, which is thus united, involving all officials, including Members and Members of the National Assembly. We have therefore pursued a common objective, and it is logical that the drafters of the draft law have agreed to merge the two procedures. This allowed us to take a decision at this meeting today on the reduction of the salaries of all officials. And, if there has been an act of Members and Members of Parliament for a so-called symbolic gesture, this is no longer the case. We are talking about an important measure, a measure that weighs EUR 2.8 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the president, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. As has already been said, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at its 6th emergency meeting on 25 February, considered the draft law on the temporary reduction of the salaries of officials submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. This is how the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided at its 15th session. 2. 2009 The Committee first decided whether, under the same agenda item under Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure, it would deal with both laws, namely, the law on the provisional classification of certain functions of the legislative authority in payment classes - or a simplified bill - and a proposal for a law on the temporary reduction of salaries of officials, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee first agreed that, under the same agenda item, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, it would deal with both draft laws for amendments to the law, i.e. the so-called parliamentary and government proposal. In the course of the debate that followed at this point, Members and Members of Parliament supported these provisions, with the exception being the representative of the Slovenian National Party. On the basis of Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the following conclusions: The amended proposal for a law shall be prepared on the basis of a proposal for a law on temporary reduction of salaries of officials, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Second conclusion: The draft law on the basis of which a proposal for a law will be prepared does not include any of the articles in the proposal for a law on the temporary classification of certain functions of the legislative authority in the wage class. This was for formal reasons, i.e. from the law of the Member States. In the light of the transitional decisions adopted, the Committee, pursuant to Rules 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure, carried out a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Reduction of the Wages of Officials, as presented in the text. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also adopted the amendment as an amendment to the Committee, which reads as follows: In the first paragraph, the words "to limit the effects of the financial crisis" shall be added after the words "to limit the effects of the financial crisis", and the second paragraph shall be deleted. Thus, in practice, in the so-called government law, we have introduced the provisions of the parliamentary law with this amendment. We have also come to the conclusion that the proposal for a law on the temporary classification of certain legislative functions in wage classes, the first consideration, or the law of the Member State, is not suitable for further consideration. Of course, I am talking about the formal decision that was needed. I may also point out that, at the time of the hearing, he was not present on the committee, nor did we have any notice of the position of the Council of Justice. It was only after the hearing of the Court of Justice on the working body that it informed us that it supported a reduction in the salaries of judges, provided that they were raised first in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, but not otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! The Group of Social Democrats will certainly support the proposed bill. In doing so, let me take this opportunity to say that in the process of thinking about how to reduce and how to achieve this, i.e. the salaries sent, we have also thought about several other proposals. We were thinking that the means that we said were symbolic heights and that our gesture was primarily symbolic might somehow be placed in the space of action of humanitarian organisations and thus enable them to improve, i.e. to raise the quality of their operation, mainly due to the scale of needs that is greater from day to day. People are asking for help, asking for help. We have been thinking about actually allowing some of the means to make it easier for them to operate. The final agreement within the parliamentary groups was to draw up our proposal for a law. This bill, as has already been said several times today, has been prepared, prepared on its own and, of course, we have also signed under this proposal. The solution that we have at this time, namely the proposal that regulates in its entirety, reduces the salaries of officials, given that our proposal, which has been incorporated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has been incorporated into this law by an amendment that has deleted the restriction of this law, that this does not apply to Members and Members of Parliament, has been supported by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Vinko Gorenak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Hello again! At the outset, I must say that we will support the adoption of a law on temporary reduction of salaries for officials in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, while at the same time reminding you of the following or I would like to say the following. However we rotate this amount, and in any way we mediate it, with the parliamentary reduction in wages already presented, we will save 130,000 euros on an annual basis or save a decent one-bedroom apartment or a wardrobe in Ljubljana. It seems to us that this is one of the kind of measures that we support, and I have highlighted this, even if Members in theory cut salaries, they would save 10 apartments of decent nature in Ljubljana. We welcome, fully welcome such measures and therefore support them, as you can see, by our vote, but point out that this is an example of management theory. Well, the government is in some way leading by example, and that is good, but there is a lack of what is called proper guidance, or proper action, to be taken. However, these measures are not and are not, which we have already pointed out practically in each of our performances. In the SDS Group, we continue to point out that we are expecting laws, we expect measures to pull the Slovenian economy and finance out of a state in a tree. In the Bible of the Government, so named by the Secretary-General of the Government, the government coalition wrote that between 1 January and today you would bring before this National Assembly, send, as you wish, 24 laws. The Bible does not respect the government; to this day you have only brought three laws from the Government’s normative program of work into this National Assembly. At the time of the transfer of power, Janševa's government has left you with a series of laws that would seriously affect the area of finance and economy and limit this train, which in the area of finance and economy lie and lie down, sinks into some deep. However, somehow you have not made up your mind or made up your mind to do so to a lesser extent. We also persist in making certain laws in the SDS, even though they eventually come out mutilated to the point that they do not deserve, for example, the names of the Visiah's law. Visjak's probably a little red, too, if anyone calls it that. Instead of dealing seriously with the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, which brings a number of people to employment every day, we are witnessing disputes within the government coalition. Just before that show, I looked at the unemployment figures. If the data is true, but I think they are true, we had about 59,000 unemployed in Slovenia at the time of the handover, and today we have 77,000. If you count it, if you share it with 100 days of government, it means that at the time of your government, 200 people lost their jobs every day. I'm stressing 200 people. It's still obvious that the Prime Minister is speaking one way, and the ministers are working for you another. Thus, the President of the Government announces measures on savings, on non-employment, the Minister of Justice says on the same day that he will re-engage. The Prime Minister of the Government is talking about cash, about fair staffing, the Minister cancels the call and recruits without it. Instead of laws, the government deals with affairs such as photocopying, supposed secret recording and so on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u107	Mr. Gorenak, do you have the impression that this belongs to the bill we are considering?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u108	Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u109	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u110	Please don't interrupt me. And with all other matters and in this way it conceals real facts, such as damages and so-called transfers. It seems that the Prime Minister of the Government has more understanding in opposition parties than in coalitions, because those who have lost in elections are essentially predicting his own replacement, which is unusual. Once again, I stress that we will uphold the law. President, I beg you, if you will not interrupt me and take my word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I interrupted you because you spent almost two minutes talking about a subject that wasn't the content of this law. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! I think that, on behalf of our Group of Members, I can give my support to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, because I believe it was entirely correct that he interrupted the presentation of the position of the Group of Members which was not. But it has been taken advantage of, I will say, this possibility for completely different assessments and other views which in fact do not touch this law in any way. We have received a lesson in the work of this government and, of course, a praise, as they have done in all 100 days, to the previous government. We have gained power, whether we want it or not, even the crisis. And I think it is very inappropriate to use these moments of crisis for political struggle. In the Group of Members, we have always supported the proposals that it is appropriate and urgent that we also give Members our contribution and example in the temporary reduction of the salaries of officials due to the crisis in which it occurred, along with other countries, including Slovenia. We believe it is right that we, along with all others, bear our share of the burden and contribute to the entire set of austerity measures. It is true that the total amount of savings, even given our number, is not high, but I am sure that the eyes of the public, the unions, the workers, those who are either out of work or their salaries will fall, are also against us, our actions. At the same time, we are pleased and believe that our example, perhaps at least a little, has contributed to the Government's successful conclusion and conclusion of the negotiations, according to our assessment of the extremely important and also rational and reasonable agreement on public sector wages. However, the entire package of savings from public sector officials is no longer so small and not so insignificant. It means a significant and important contribution to the stability of public funds and public finances. In doing so, we would like to reiterate, in the Group of Members, that the salaries of members of the National Assembly are not yet the only and greatest problem, as we may sometimes judge by some criticisms. Also because it sometimes opens up and it is right that we also talk about this here, the issue of reputation and the importance of the function of a Member or a Member of the National Assembly. In doing so, it must be said that the highest wage between us or the highest wage earner is the President of the National Assembly, compared to the salaries of others in the public sector, only about 60th city. While Members who receive the lowest salaries are ranked between 500 and 600th places among all public servants. And it is also right to stress this today, especially in this place, because of many, many, many, many, many, many, over-lightly flat-rate estimates based on unrealistic and incorrect data. In the Group of Members, we will indeed vote in favour of the adoption of the Law on the Temporary Reduction of the Wages of Officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The positions of the DeSUS Group will be presented by colleague Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u114	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a law on temporary reduction of salaries of officials. Reason for submission of the draft law on temporary reduction of salaries of officials [[Government]] and also the proposal for a law on the temporary classification of certain legislative functions in payment classes [[Members of the National Assembly]] , :relieving the so-called recession, the economic and financial crisis, which also affected the Republic of Slovenia. This is one of the austerity measures aimed at making public funds more efficient or reducing public spending. The main solutions to the bill are: a reduction of the salaries of all the officials and officials in Group A for a period of 12 months by an amount of 4% of the basic salary. A 4% reduction is also envisaged for compensation to officials after termination. At the meeting of the home working body, the two proposals were decided to be dealt with under the same point in the rules of procedure governing the hybrid procedure and the latter could only be dealt with if the proposals dealt with the same social relationship. The question raised is whether the two proposals actually regulate the same social relationship and whether the hybrid treatment provisions have been applied correctly or have been misused. In fact, the original text of the Government Act regulated the reduction of salaries for all officials, except for the salaries of the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Members of the National Assembly and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. While the proposal of Members covers exactly the last group of persons, the legislators of the legislative branch of power, which are exempted by a government proposal. In any event, a group of persons covered by the proposal for a law of Members was also included in the text of the Government Act. So now the same method of wage reduction is proposed for us as well. Why have we tabled our proposal for a law regulating the salaries of officials of the legislative branch of government? If, of course, we leave behind the main reasons for the reduction of wages due to the recession, the economic and financial crisis, in which we fully agree in the DeSUS Group, we believe that a special law regulating the rights and obligations of Members is absolutely justified. The legislation already in force recognises the latter, since Members' rights and obligations are governed by the Law on Members. Thus, it would be appropriate to regulate the area of salaries of the legislative branch of power in a separate regulation. This is based on the constitutional principle, Article 3, of the Authority's division into legislative, enforcement and judicial provisions, which states that the authorities performing the essential functions of the State's authority in their operations are relatively independent and independent of other authorities, so that none of them can prevail. The concept of independence and independence of the authorities in determining wages has been the subject of several decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which assessed protection against the reduction of judicial salaries. Similarly, the decisions of the largest body for the protection of constitutionality and legality and human rights and fundamental freedoms may also be interpreted in the case of the legislative authority. In fact, the Constitutional Court has established that the latter are protected from reduction, unless it is a matter of exceptional cases. As well as the situation in the DeSUS Group, we recognise the current financial crisis and the resulting economic crisis, so we do not oppose the reduction in the salaries of officials, including Members, to this end. However, as is the case for judges or the decision of the Constitutional Court, it should apply and the executive branch has not yet taken this into account, as is the case with Members of the National Assembly. In the DeSUS Group, however, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u116	Dear Minister, Honourable Vice President, colleague and colleague! We are now adopting a proposal for a law on temporary reduction of salaries following an emergency procedure. The reason for this is to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. That's the reason. By the way. Given that we have proposed a real 20% reduction in wages in 1996 in the Slovenian National Party, which is still in force today, we believe that such a law, which is only likeable in nature, should be more principled and more principled. Why am I saying this? Because of the fact that all directors of public institutions have, and this is the measure that the Government is supposed to propose here today; they have higher salaries than the minister, perhaps individuals have a higher salary than the Prime Minister himself. And it is here that illegal procedure, respected minister, when people are disgusted that directors in public institutions and directors in state-owned enterprises or in enterprises in which the country has a majority ownership, are home carrying 20,000 euros a month's net remuneration, while their employees are losing their right to work, even following mass cancellations. Two hundred unemployed are recorded daily or definitely more than 100 each day, regularly. The forecasts that we will reach more than a hundred thousand people at the end of the year who will not have the right to work and will be socially threatened give the government the responsibility to take more serious measures. And one of the most serious measures taken by the Minister is to cut wages for those in a privileged position today who are actually jeopardising this society. And these directors were appointed by you, the government named them. Their rights are as they are because the government allows them to do so. Although the Prime Minister himself wanted to prevent this from happening in the new year, one of the companies did not share the Christmas tree, but unfortunately he did not have the executive power. He remained in the middle of the road, laughing at the entire world of Slovenia. Sam pays for coffee and pays for the so-called team. But that's not the answer. It's really not a solution. The solution is to give up those privileges in state-owned companies that are unnecessary today and that all of us are squeezing the belt. I think that no director in a public office or company whose majority owner is a state must have a higher salary than the prime minister, no one. I would ask you to supplement this law. Then we'll back him up. As long as this law is not as it should be, we only take it as a phrase with which to praise the Government and the Prime Minister himself. These 2.8 million euros will in no way help us to avoid such unemployment on a day-to-day basis. Directors in public companies whose majority ownership is a country still have astronomical salaries. Individual tycoons who stole companies and then even closed them down later, for example, I am talking about the coastal part which, literally, has been economically destroyed by Mr Bavčar, and the fact is that we have closed down Kolinska and Droga as well. This gentleman still enjoys great privileges and will slightly reduce his salary, but he will still be tens of thousands of euros a month in his pocket. In short, I suggest you do what we have already done - to replace the parliamentary salary; this is what the Slovenian National Party did; for the labour salary. And that what we have accepted today should be turned into that we receive the workers' wages and the workers of the mission. At least once!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister. Let me start by saying that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support a bill that foresees a temporary reduction in the salaries of officials. We will support it because of the principle of solidarity, according to which it is right that officials also contribute to the resolution of the financial crisis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a reduction of the functional salaries in order to ensure the stability of public finances in 2009, and this measure is considered an urgent austerity measure. However, we need to know that this measure will reduce public spending by a total of EUR 2.5 million and 2.8 million. In view of the enormous discharges in the millions of amounts that have already been spoken about and which our system still allows, I can only say that this path of saving is not effective and is not real. The right path would, inter alia, be the immediate and comprehensive reform of the Law on Public Servants and other laws governing the work of public servants and officials and the abolition of certain unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. It would also be right to address wage imbalances in the public sector wage system and only then to take austerity measures in public sector wages. Above all, it would be appropriate to regulate once and for all the relations between the salaries of Members, Ministers, Presidents of the Government and directors of those companies where the State owns or co-owners. The aim of the State should be to establish, in the long term, a payment system in which capable and efficient workers and officials would remain or would like to be employed in public administration. Of course, it is right that the wage system in public administration is saved, but it must still be sufficiently stimulating to stop the escape of the best staff from state and public administration. Only through the acquisition of good staff would national and public administrations increase their efficiency. The proposed measure will therefore be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group because we want to be in solidarity with those who are employed in the economy, with workers and workers in the industry. With those who are actually the most affected by this crisis. However, we must admit that this measure will not help them much, since we will not save anything essential with it. It could only be by the decision of the Government to cancel or dissolve the contract for the purchase of Patri’s armoured personnel, in this way the State would save a much more important part of the funds. And no one would blame us for doing that at that time. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia would also achieve much more by regulating or limiting the awards in the supervisory councils and awards of the members of the administration in those companies where the state of ownership or co-ownership would achieve much more. And there would be similar cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to our minister and to all of you. However, the parliamentary salaries are always an interesting and attractive topic, but I am pleased that, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we can say that we support this amendment of this law on functional salaries without any calculation, without any malice in the heart, but with a sincere message, because we want to share the fate of everyone who is currently in a difficult, envious position in Slovenia. Nor will we take advantage of these minutes, unlike some others, to spit once again on our own country, which is in difficulty and is taking difficult measures in tight economic conditions, fighting fairly, providing financial resources for preserving jobs, for development, for assistance to the economy and for many social transfers. Of course, the contribution that we will all make in the public sector, €2.8 million, is good money, and for this country at this time is extremely important, and therefore I am even more pleased that we have been able to reach agreement with the public sector in this country, which is also a matter of sincere congratulations to the ministers who are with us. At the same time, it is also aware that this measure is temporary, but in the longer term, in better stable conditions, this country deserves good, perhaps even the best paid, best and quality staff in the public sector. I agree with those who point out to companies owned by the state that, say, the director makes a lot more than 10,000 euros and workers live at 500 euros. And let me draw your attention to another story from, say, municipal levels. When, say, we are looking for a lawyer or a construction engineer, we certainly do not get him because he is offered twice or three times the salary in the private sector. Finally, our full consent, frankly, to the reduction of functional wages. Then, certainly after this transitional period, after improving these times, a serious consideration is made that wages in this country will be equivalent to work, effort, expertise and knowledge in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The proposal for a law on the provisional classification of certain legislative functions as wage classes submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Bojan Kontic is not suitable for further consideration." We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 8th A-point of the agenda, which is on the defence of the proposal for a decision establishing and the tasks of the Constitutional Commission of the State. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the Decree establishing and the tasks of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. In doing so, we would like to stress in particular that we hope and wish that, as soon as possible, the content to be discussed by the newly established Constitutional Commission will also be subject to the regulation of the Institute of the Referendum, as we have already drawn up a proposal in this regard in our Group. In Real-New Policy, we believe that a lack of and inadequate regulation of the Institute of Referendum must be addressed, as it causes considerable problems and complications. The Institute of Referendum needs to be adapted to arrangements in comparable democratic countries and parliamentary systems. The amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia and certain provisions of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative are, in our opinion, necessary to protect voters and voters from meaningless referendums used for political games in order to prevent the playing, improvisation and instrumentalisation of the Institute of Referendum. We do not want to invent things new, but we want to change them in such a way that this extremely important instrument of direct democracy is properly regulated. The basic message that we want to give is that by finding comparable and appropriate solutions, we need to take a responsible approach to solving this issue. We are convinced that at this point the will of political parties has also matured to approach this, because it is a substance that has been in the air for a long time, if I say so. In Zares-New policy, we have for a long time identified the inadequate regulation of the Institute. It was therefore clearly exposed, as we have also made clear in the case of the last referendum, a survey referendum on the provinces. We also stressed the importance of regulating this issue throughout the parliamentary group and the party during the electoral campaign. The latest developments are only a reason to call on relevant political parties or to find sufficient political will to bring this area together. The regulation of this area has also been recorded among the 99 points with which we participated in the formation of a coalition agreement. As key points of the necessary changes, they would point out: establishing a quorum for the validity of the outcome of the referendum, excluding the possibility of a referendum for certain segments, such as fundamental human rights, the actual application of the so-called referendum day or two, ensuring the credibility of meeting the conditions of support with signatures of at least 2,500 voters, and the availability of a referendum initiator and proposer with a referendum initiative. In the first two cases there is a change to the Constitution, while the other changes require only a change to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. We believe that the change could be achieved already in the first half of the mandate of the National Assembly, because it is an extremely important matter that requires a month's work. The Institute of the Referendum has been in history many times, unfortunately, in matters of politicisation and has previously not served the desire to determine the will of the people and it is precisely the policy that we are obliged to settle the matter in an appropriate manner. This is what we are encouraged to do by the growing professional public, and we are also urged to do so by the voice of reason. Thus, we propose in the client of the Real-New Policy that this important topic be brought to the fore and that a debate be opened as soon as possible within the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. And for this very reason, we will support the Constitutional Commission in our party the Proposal for a Decree on the Establishment and Tasks of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposal to establish the Constitutional Commission. The content of the proposal is prepared in accordance with the usual content and allows the Council to discuss and propose to the National Assembly a decision on all acts of a constitutional nature. This is not only with regard to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but also with regard to the constitutional law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia to amend the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of Slovenia and to amend the constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I will not discuss in any more detail whether such and thus certain content of the decision is constitutionally correct, as no amendment has been tabled to the motion for a decree and I have not tabled it myself. The contents of the decree have always been so far, but I think it might be good that constitutional lawyers once, not in such a very distant future, critically consider whether, until when and under what conditions, the National Assembly is competent to decide on constitutional acts on the basis of which Slovenia has been constituted as a sovereign, independent and independent State and which are already subject to amendments and additions in accordance with the legal logic and principles for interpreting legal acts. The Constitution and the Constitutional Act on amendments and additions to the Constitution, which refer to the current living content of the Constitution, which can be amended and supplemented after this particular procedure, may be amended and supplemented. While it is true that we also have a precedent for amending and supplementing the Constitutional Law on the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia since 1994, this is 15 years ago when we dealt with the obligations of foreign exchange depositors of the former Ljubljanska Bank, but for this decision there were special reasons and special circumstances, issues that were dealt with before that were not the content of the constitutional law and not backwards, but since the adoption of these amendments to the constitutional law further. This time, the reason for the establishment of the Constitutional Commission is once again the amendment and addition of the constitutional law for the implementation of the Fundamental Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia of 25. 6. 1991, by means of provisions which are supposed to regulate the status of persons living in and in the Republic of Slovenia almost 18 years ago in different ways and under certain conditions to regulate their status rights. What we think about this behaviour of the proposer will be discussed in the debate on the content of their proposal, as this would not be correct in the debate on the adoption of the decision. That is why, I believe, I have only warned about these important legal issues. However, I think it would not be bad for Ucomisis to deal with them, as it is also too easy to adapt legal interpretations to political interests, often not to the majority, but also to the uncompromising demands of the opposition, not to the very good practice of working in the National Assembly. Finally, let me say that I am aware that, in addition to a concrete proposal in this mandate, it will be necessary for the Constitutional Commission to discuss some other issues which have already been recorded in the public eye and which we already have critical opinions on the regulation so far. Surely this is the case for a referendum, and this is true for the powers and manner of work of the Constitutional Court, perhaps for someone we will come to know together. Therefore, the decree will receive our support on all the concerns about the proposal for which we accept it, because otherwise it will not be possible to reject the requirements which are the content of the constitutional law, which formally proposes the establishment of the Constitutional Commission this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. At the E-mail Club, in which I speak and speak for myself now, we agree with all of this. We will be happy to support the decree, but there will be a fundamental and weighed debate, particularly on those articles and on the content that Mr Potrč has just presented and stated. I fully agree with this and support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[You're giving up. Thank you.]] Mr. Vito Rozej. [[You're quitting, too.]] Mr. Miran Potch. All of you who have been reported for discussion have been given the floor. The list is exhausted. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments have been tabled on the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. I am informing you that no proposal has been tabled by the Commission in relation to this point of the Rules of Procedure to the assembly, which is why I conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the third session of the National Assembly. Goodbye.
