ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I got a notification from the mags. Anton Ropa, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, who is still on the Committee's agenda item 21b, is the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the Liabilities of the Slovenian Indemnity Society for the Financing of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, that it is not yet completed with the work of the Committee and that it is expected to end within one hour, so I will inform you that we will continue today's meeting of the National Assembly at 10 a.m. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 9.01 p.m. and resumed at 10.01 p.m.]] They will immediately check to see if the committee will be finished as soon as possible. If it's just before it's over, maybe we can wait another minute, or we'll start moving on. I'm asking for patience for a few more minutes. Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We begin the continuation of the 6th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franz Jurša, Janko Weber, Mag. Branko Grimes, Anton Kolarich, mag. Andrea Richter and Ivo Wigel. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the public roads law, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. We'll wait for government representatives to arrive. I'm informed the minister will be here in a minute. If you'll excuse me, I'll take the criticism as well. We'll wait for a minute or two to get back to you. If not, we will proceed with the presentation of the Transport Committee as a working body. Procedurally, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. I don't know if this is criticism, Mr President, but the way you've been picking it up in the last days and weeks is not good. We have witnessed many interruptions, many pressures on your part and on the part of the ruling Members. In the event that it was a matter of dealing with one of the laws that was included in this meeting of the National Assembly and on which the discussion was carried out by the competent national working body of the Committee on Internal Policy under constant pressure and we constantly postponed and delayed the item on the agenda. Something similar has happened today, and we discussed the guarantee law of the Slovenian Compensation Society of €180 million on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. So it's 180 million euros for which the new government will additionally be in charge of this country, which is not an insignificant issue. And even in this case, we were under constant pressure, under some kind of stampede, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u3	Mr. Blackach, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u4	That we have to do this. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u5	directly abuse procedurally [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u6	point [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u7	a procedural option, a possibility for a procedural question or a proposal, and please make a procedural proposal or anything like that. [[...]] Otherwise, I'll have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u8	If you'll allow me, Mr. President, otherwise take my word for it. If you'll allow me, of course, I'll say it to the end. Otherwise, according to this new practice you have chosen, you can also turn off my microphone. You've already begun to hope for our reins, this is what happened on this committee, when the ruling majority voted to give us the chance to get our hopes up, as we said at home, tippers. That we can only discuss for as long as you can determine. In short, this is not a good way to work, Mr President. And I propose that, in the future, in colleges, you place on the agenda meetings those points, those materials and those materials for which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a discussion was held on the working bodies and those for which the working bodies had prepared the appropriate positions prior to the meeting. Otherwise, in the future, we will also be witnessing delays, interruptions, which are not good, not for the work of the National Assembly, but above all, Mr President-respected, is not good for the state of the spirit of democracy in this country. This country is beginning to turn into an authoritarian police state, which is bad. And please don't help or don't help with your way of doing that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u9	It is only by allowing you to say it to the end that the opposite speaks of freedom of speech in this country and the functioning of this assembly. The law under consideration on the Public Finance Committee is under urgent procedure and the report must be prepared for consideration of the point, nothing is wrong. No other interruptions or anything that has occurred have been made on the proposal or request of the President himself, but in line with the meeting's course - this has not been the first time, not even in this and not in the previous mandate, of course, and it will also happen in the future. This is a normal working procedure and therefore I strongly reject all your allegations. I now give the word to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposed law or amendment of the law introduces vignettes for a shorter period of time, monthly and weekly. At the same time, with the introduction of monthly and weekly vignettes, the Republic of Slovenia will remove semi-annual vignettes that will no longer be so interesting. The fact is that semi-annual vineyards have so far been purchased mainly by occasional users of the road network, both domestic and foreign. However, motor bikes will still have semi-annual vignettes in place of monthly vignettes, adapted to the duration of the main motorcycle season. The Republic of Slovenia, by means of a bill, follows the European Commission's view that the Republic of Slovenia has, in an official reminder, pointed out the discriminatory treatment of other European Union citizens or foreign residents who only occasionally use Slovenian motorways. She ruled that these, due to disproportionate tolls for transit or short-term use of motorways are in a worse position than the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, the European Commission has subsequently suspended the assessment of the application for funding from the Cohesion Fund for the Slyvnika-Drazenci motorway section, thereby threatening the total amount of EUR 88.76 million from the Cohesion Fund. Another problem that has been brought forward by the complications of the vineyards is the assessment of another application, namely for two motorway sections Pluska-Ponikva and Ponikve-Grastje, and consequently the use of funds from the Cohesion Fund amounting to EUR 86.45 million. This year, it is a matter of concrete resources, a refund of approximately €40 million, which should be received very shortly and this process has been suspended. The continuation of the decision on the allocation of these funds is conditional on the introduction of vineyards for a shorter period of time. The Republic of Slovenia expects the European Commission, as a result of its decision to change the vignette toll system, to release the funds currently detained due to the previous procedure. The fact is that the total gross revenue generated by the wine system will decrease for a shorter period due to the introduction of vignettes, but we have taken measures to neutralise this reduction, i.e. we have raised tolls for freight vehicles by 40% and date both, i.e. the introduction of short-term screws and the increase of tolls, coincidentally. In addition to this, the draft law also includes provisions laying down - this is a second set - that the investor of any economic public infrastructure facility that is being built or renewed within the framework of the construction or reconstruction of a public road shall fully ensure the financing of such construction or reconstruction, unless otherwise provided for in the law. The delimitation of liabilities between investors shall be governed by a specific contract. Those provisions have been made in response to the Court of Auditors’ audit report on the implementation and financing of the motorway programme. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Municipalities and Dars shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Act, be responsible for co-legislators if the intended construction lies in the area of the State road or the municipal road or its protection zone, which shall be considered in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Act in the protected zone of the public infrastructure. The deadline for determining the project conditions shall be 15 days for a less complex project and 30 days from the receipt of the full application for other facilities, unless otherwise specified by law. If the project conditions are not given, they shall be deemed not to be established and a consensus shall be given accordingly. On the basis of Article 50a of the PGI, the Construction Act, agreement shall be given within 30 days of the receipt of the full application, unless a specific law provides otherwise, otherwise consent shall be deemed to have been given. Since it is not operationally possible to carry out a quality peer review of the project documentation in such a short time, it is proposed to supplement the Law on Public Roads as a special law, which provides for a longer period of time to determine the project conditions and also a longer period of time for the issue of consent. Individual plans should be reviewed by experts, that is, experts in the field. These experts are from the areas of construction works, buildings, statics, drainage and so on, so that this arrangement is also nothing special. We also have something similar in the Water Act, which as "lex specialis" sets out the same hands as the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Happy Friend to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the parent working body or the Committee on Transport on the completion of the Law on Public Roads. The Committee met at its 5th meeting, on 14. 5. and considered the proposed amendment of the law. Representatives of Darsa and the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The reasons for amending and supplementing the draft law referred to by the drafter of the law relate to the elimination of any doubt as to the non-discrimination of the Slovenian vignette toll system, allowing for the purchase and use of vignettes for a shorter period of time, in particular for occasional users of the toll network, and introduce monthly and weekly vignettes. The introduction of tolling with vignettes in 2008 was the basis for the European Commission's decision, which in its first official reminder reminded Slovenia of the discriminatory treatment of other EU citizens and foreign residents who occasionally use Slovenian motorways. As a result, the European Commission has subsequently suspended the evaluation applications for the acquisition of funds from the Cohesion Fund for the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway section. The previously adopted decision on co-financing of the Slovnica-Drazenci motorway section by the EU is at risk of drawing around EUR 88.7 million from the Cohesion Fund. However, the second problem brought about by the complication of vineyards in 2008 is the assessment of applications for motorway sections of Pluska-Ponikva and of Ponikve-Grastje and, of course, the consequent indebtedness of EUR 76 million. In the case of these two sections, funds amounting to EUR 67.4 million, as has already been said, and the freezing of these funds would be an opportunity for Slovenia to continue with the motorway programme. The proposal, as has already been said and said by Minister Patrick Vlačič, also assesses the provisions expressly stipulating that the investor of any economic infrastructure facility that is being built or renovated within the framework of the construction and reconstruction of the state road fully ensures the financing of construction and reconstruction. This is the requirement of the Court of Auditors’ response report. The opinion was also put forward by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made concrete proposals to the position of Article 2 which is of a transitional and final nature and to Article 4. The Commission does not support the law for local self-government and regional development of the National Council. Due to the proposed introduction of monthly and weekly vignettes and planned promotions, the toll revenues will be reduced; this is the opinion of the Commission. The Commission is of the opinion that Slovenia should not give in, but should, before the change in the vignette tolling system, assess legally more precisely the alleged discriminatory nature of the Slovenian vignette system. The Commission points out, however, that Slovenia has not ensured that the European Commission will release the funds temporarily detained. In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee held a debate and a vote on the amendments tabled and adopted all amendments tabled by the members of the coalition and the amendment to Articles 2 and 4 proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The presentation of a solution to change the wine system in Slovenia in the Law on Public Roads again raises much controversy about the usefulness and purpose of the introduction of vignettes in last year. It is clear that this was a pre-election move and that it severely endangers Dars' financial sustainability. We are of the opinion that, in both cases, we are overly exaggerated because the objectives and purpose of the introduction were clear. The government wanted to increase the flow of our highways as soon as possible and at the same time make our highways more user-friendly. Therefore, as a temporary solution, she decided to introduce vignettes. In parallel, the Ministry of Transport is preparing a project for the introduction of satellite tolls, which, in accordance with the Government's action plan, provides for the introduction of satellite tolls for freight vehicles this year and the introduction of satellite tolls for passenger vehicles for the following year. Just before the elections, the call was completed, but due to political hygiene, it was not announced. It would not be fair and proper for such an important call to be issued just before the elections. Unfortunately, work on this project, at least as far as I have information, did not continue in the Ministry in the new composition. Of course, at the time of the introduction of the vignettes, it was not forgotten about the financial recovery. It is necessary to clearly present the figures and we do not understand why these figures do not enter the public at all. The fact is that in 2007 more than €210 million of tolls were collected, and in 2008, in which we also had half a year in use of vignettes, more than €248 million of tolls were collected, which is 38 million more. Of this, only 21.7 million euros were collected in personal transport more than in the year when we did not have vignettes. So the project is certainly not as financially flawed as it wants to be shown. It is shown almost in such a way that it will soon be the end of the world, that Darsa’s financial sustainability is threatened, that we will no longer build motorways in Slovenia and that we will not build development axes and so on and so on. All this is, I can say, just a strong exaggeration and it's a lot of manipulation when it's said that guilt threatens Dars' financial sustainability. The long-term financial sustainability of Dars would be compromised in any event, even if last year we did not decide to change tolls in passenger traffic. Today we would be in exactly the same situation. The reason for this is, of course, in the anuities for the recovery of Darsa’s credits, which are increasing year after year and therefore more resources are needed from year to year to cover these annuities. In 2018, the annuity will reach almost EUR 400 million. We wonder which toll system will be able to cover such annuities. Probably none. At this point, we do not see the possibility of tolling, but whatever it is, being 100 per cent and bringing almost EUR 400 million into the cash register. Even if it were, the question is, who would use highways on such expensive tolls? As is known, the height of the collected toll function is the price and of course the density of traffic. I would also like to point out that so far 815 000 years and 450,000 semi-annual vignettes have been sold this year. In total, almost some more than €60 million have been collected and we are only in May. Well, I don't see any disaster here either. The key problem facing Slovenia in relation to vignettes is the alleged but unproven discriminatory nature of foreign highway users and the consequent blocking of assets for the construction of the Slovnica-Drazenci motorway section. This is a very unusual move by the European Commission. It's political blackmail. And I say that Slovenia is severely discriminated against in this case. The European Commission has therefore condemned Slovenia without a court of law, which it has no jurisdiction over. This is still under the jurisdiction of the court. We hope that such blackmail will not occur in any other important areas. In the Slovenian People's Party, we ask whether there is any legal basis for such an action by the European Commission. As Minister of Transport myself, I was looking for an answer for this, and I didn't get that answer. In the Slovenian People's Party we are of the opinion that it is not possible to insist on the existing system, because otherwise it will not be possible to deblock the assets for the construction of the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway section. That is why we will also support the proposed law because we do not see any other solution for the funds to be decommissioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. The new law introduces the following essential changes into the Slovenian legal order: blames are introduced for a shorter period of time, that is to say monthly and weekly, which will be directed primarily to occasional, both domestic and foreign users of Slovenian motorways. This removes any doubt in this regard by the European Commission, the recognition of the discriminatory nature of the Slovenian vignette system and, consequently, the release of European funds, for which some important motorway sections, this is said to be Slivnica-Drazenci, Pluska-Ponikve and Ponikve-Crasti in the total amount of around € 160 million. At the moment, Slovenia cannot afford, at least in the opinion of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, the non-exploitation of European funds for the construction of motorway sections. Amendments and additions to the law also regulate transparent financing and the planning of economic public infrastructure, which is being built or renewed in the framework of the construction, maintenance or reconstruction of state roads. It should be pointed out that since 1 C.E. 7th in 2008 in accordance with the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads for Driving Motor Vehicles on Motorways and Fast Roads in the Republic of Slovenia, it provides for mandatory use of vineyards - annual or semi-annual. With the introduction of the system, a so-called Swiss model of the vignette system has been introduced, allowing for relatively low prices for frequent users a relatively cheaper or very cheap use of the motorway network. As a result, occasional users, in particular foreign users, began to make increasingly loud demands for the introduction of vineyards for a shorter period of time. In 2008, a weak and unfair toll system was replaced by an even worse wine system for the electoral reason at the end of the previous term. It was an experiment that was not supported by any serious economic study, even the government Umar was twice against the introduction of the vignette system. This experiment was purely an ordinary gambling with the sustainability of the highway programme and, consequently, with public finances, as shown in the 2009 budget year when our data is cut. We've heard some of them before, we're going to raise less than 100 million in 2009. The projects are between €80 million and €90 million under the vignette system, and we will need approximately 165 million to repay Dars' loans. This is said to be another way to ensure the difference, but even worse in the next five years, if we do not do something to change the toll system, more than 200 million will have to be provided from the budget to repay the loans, as the commitments will increase to around EUR 285 million. The principle of justice and the principle of equality should also be mentioned. The flat-rate toll system means that users who use less highways or motorway networks in some way subsidise intermediate users. The introduction of a flat-rate toll payment system also meant an additional blow to public transport, as it stimulates even greater use of passenger vehicles. We have warned about all these consequences in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in 2008. Finally, I would like to point out that in the LDS we support the Government to make the existing system at least more financially sustainable and to resolve the complication with the European Commission, and in particular we expect the new Slovenian government to accelerate preparations and activities for the introduction of the toll in the free flow, in which each user will pay as much as transport. In the LDS Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Before us are changes and additions to the law on public roads or the so-called story of vineyards. Another story about the mandate of the previous government and its law, which was introduced before the elections with a view to seeking political points and addressing voters. It is no wonder, therefore, that after a bad half year after the election of the new government, we have to amend or amend the Law on Public Roads for a number of reasons. The first, of course, is of course the most important, the financial aspect, the second cause, also very important, is the European aspect, because Europe, the European community, is blocking financial resources for the construction of motorways because of the discriminatory law introduced by the previous government. As I said, the Law on Public Roads introduces the following major changes into the Slovenian legal order: blames are introduced for a shorter period of time, which will mainly be for occasional users of Slovenian toll roads both domestic and foreign. At the same time, as I have said, it will also meet the requirements of the European Commission and thus resolve any doubt as to the apparent discriminatory nature of the Slovenian vignette toll system. The new law also regulates transparent financing and, consequently, the planning of economic public infrastructure, which is being built or renewed in the framework of the construction or reconstruction of state roads and, most importantly, provides transport security across the entire road network in the Republic of Slovenia. As of 1 July 2008, the vignette system for tolling the motorway was introduced. The purpose, as I have already said, is well-known, but today we find that this vignette system has had more negative consequences than positive effects. The fact is that the existing vignette system is due to the price itself, which has not produced any legal, economic calculations, studies, except for one simple survey commissioned by political parties to verify its popularity, has in the long term increased the unstable system of financing motorways with a tendency and the need to provide a significantly higher budget source of funding for the construction of the highway system in the Republic of Slovenia. The existing model of funding for motorway programmes is not sustainable in the short and long term, which is too large and growing too quickly. One of the main causes of the situation is, of course, the introduction of the vignette system. The changes in the toll system created after 2008 did not solve the situation in the financing of the motorway programme, but only accelerated and deepened the funding of the system. In view of the alleged discriminatory treatment of road users, the European Commission has also frozen the procedures for the granting of funding for the construction of the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway section of €83 million and has retained all further procedures concerning the acquisition of funds for the Circus of € 160 million. As a result of all this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Transport with the Minister in charge were forced to prepare a new law on public roads, which provides for the introduction of short-term vineyards. Therefore, the Government has also prepared careful calculations for the price of new short-term vineyards and hopes that this will, however, put out the fire of which the pyroman is known. That is why the Group of Social Democrats supports this amendment of the law, even though we know that the blames will be challenged for all citizens and, of course, also for foreigners, but we want to manage the country responsibly and therefore this is also an urgent procedure. Unlike the previous government, not or the upcoming European elections, and the result is not important to us at this time, but it is important to us that Slovenia begins to manage the country responsiblely - or the Government. The Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u20	Mr President, the distinguished Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group opposes the proposal for a law on public roads submitted by the Government for consideration. Why? The reasons for the adoption of the law are as follows, says the Government: the elimination of any doubt about the non-discrimination of the wine system. The Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič himself said many times in the performances that discrimination is decided by the European Court and not by the Commission. Whether discrimination based on citizenship, as the European Commission has pointed out, is true or not - it will not. In our view, we cannot talk about discrimination in relation to citizenship, as blames apply to all the same, domestic and foreign people who are either common or occasional users of motorways. Well, that argument doesn't hold. The next argument is price. The price is proportional both to those who use highways frequently and to those who use highways occasionally. The following reason: The government says, allowing the purchase and use of vinyl for a shorter period of time. The only consequence of the introduction of the monthly and weekly vignette will be that the annual vignette will be irked by 73% for the frequent users of motorways, which we are mostly Slovenian citizens. What about strangers? Foreigners are now paying €35 per half year, after this proposal they have paid €15 per week, which is not known because it is within the power of the Government, which is monthly for €35. It is clear that the foreigner who will cross Slovenia to Croatia will, of course, pay 15 euros for a week when he will return 15 euros and we are on 30 euros. So, no difference. Therefore, even this argument, which is supposed to cause a complication with the European Commission, is not true. I therefore think that insistence on this price will certainly not convince the European Commission positively. That's our opinion. And then there's the next argument. The government says in its proposal that it expects the release of retained funds. Well, the government doesn't even know if the funds are going to be frozen. And something else has turned out to be what you read your last article in Logistics. The government has obviously responded to a letter from an official of the European Commission who wrote that the Commission did not hold back the funds, but they are European: that the procedure has been suspended and that the Government should explain the new financial calculation due to to tolling. So it does not hold back the evidence of detention, but today we do not have an answer as to whether this system proposed by the Government is indeed such that it will please the European Commission. Because it is important for us to be liked by the European Commission and not by Slovenian citizens and citizens! It's depressing, but we had traffic jams on our highways. Please, let's not forget this when we discuss it! And that's the last reason. Extending the hand to give consent. I think that's unacceptable. The Directorate is able to do this within this period. Why extension of consent? This is not part of the removal of administrative barriers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have therefore tabled amendments to Articles 2, 4 and 6, proposing an existing system and deadlines that are as they were, because from everything I have said in explanation of our position, we do not see any need to change anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by Damian Perne on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Public Roads in the Group of Members, because we do not actually have anything left. The main error was made last year during the former Janša government when we abandoned the outdated electronic toll system for passenger cars and replaced it by flat-rate toll payments using annual and semi-annual vignettes. The previous electronic tolling system at 2.8 gigahertz was, of course, outdated and no longer suited to road traffic needs. Therefore, the current management of Dars in 2006 prepared a transition to an electronic tolling system at a frequency of 5.7 gigahertz, which is in line with the directive required by free movement tolling. At that time, the Government rejected this proposal at the meeting itself and decided to double tolls, i.e. electronic for freight vehicles and vignettes for passenger vehicles, for a year later for fast and without adequate study. Thus, in all 400 kilometres Slovenian motorways introduced a double toll system and thus double costs, which in fact cannot eliminate toll stations because of the dual system and has significantly deteriorated traffic safety and has not improved, as it was sometimes said. After all, we are also reminded of this by the recent tragic accident and the death of a motorist at a toll station. The Government justified the introduction of the vignette system by increasing traffic flow, while ignoring traffic experts' warnings that congestion at toll stations is due to an outdated system and increased traffic. After the vignette has been removed, the congestion will take place at other points in the transport network, such as in the entry places, construction sites and the like. It also based its decision on financial considerations, since it provided for the sale in 2008 of 800 000 annual vignettes at the price of EUR 55 and EUR 2 million 500 thousand semi-annual vignettes at the price of EUR 35, i.e. a total of 3 million 300 000 vignettes, totalling EUR 201.7 million in 2008 and EUR 217 million in 2009. Indeed, in 2008 relatively less than 3 million vineyards were sold. And what the scenario tells us is a moderately optimistic sale of vignettes in the government by 30.6.2009: a total of less than 800 thousand year-old vignettes at 55 euros and only 375 thousand semi-annual vignettes, with a total revenue of 56.905 million euros. So at half a year's level, less than expected. Misdirection with projected revenues from vineyards was one of the biggest frauds of the former government, which at the same time threatened the financial sustainability of financing for the construction of motorways and, as a result, another road network in two ways: first by halved revenues from the sale of vineyards and secondly by the Commission's actions, which, due to the apparent discriminatory nature, prevented the absorption of funds of EUR 88.76 million. I believe that there will be a lot of muscle tension in the National Assembly today, particularly with regard to the perception of discrimination, so once again, I would like to stress that the wine system so far is actually discriminatory. First of all, those Slovenian drivers who rarely use motorways, because they need to get an annual or a half-year-old vignette for driving or not going on highways, and in this way they actually pay for those who drive a lot. The transition to monthly and weekly vignettes will at least make it a little easier. In the same way it is discriminatory for foreign drivers, as they have to get annual or semi-annual vignettes for occasional driving on Slovenian roads. Here, of course, we must stop fooling around and, above all, we must not flirt with the Swiss system, because we know that Switzerland is not even in the European Community. The bill eliminates the most obvious injustices of flat-rate charging of the use of motorways, does not remove or even exacerbate the fact that with such collected tolls we will raise substantially too much money for the further construction of motorways, for the repayment of loans and for the maintenance of motorways. As a result, the construction of the third development axis may also be at stake. While we will vote in favour of amendments and additions to the Public Roads Act, we really expect the Minister to prepare a more fair free-flow tolling system within a reasonable time, i.e. this year. This project is already among the discarded papers in Dars and the Ministry. If anywhere, then on Slovenian highways we can expect to charge tolls according to the principle: pay as much as you transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on supplementing the Law on Public Roads. If we close a number of responses to the introduction of vineyards, we can say that most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia welcomed them, since the estimated price of annual and semi-annual vineyards is undoubtedly very favourable, even extremely attractive to most. The annual price today is €55 and €35 half a year. Members of the DeSUS, too, have no doubt that the blame for the individual's budget is a very good solution, of course at an appropriate price. Of course, the issue of fair or criminal and unfavourable or less favourable tolls for the distance transported opens. When the law does not provide for the possibility of buying a few days' vignette, the burden of covering the costs is elegantly exceeded by those who use highways only rarely. These are tourists, natives, and also pensioners, who can only be removed from remote rural areas once a year, for example, to the white capital. Therefore, the proposed shorter period of time for these groups of people is certainly better and cheaper. While toll collection for passenger cars is under the exclusive competence of the Member States, such a system does not lead to infringements of principled non-discrimination nor must it constitute an additional obstacle to cross-border trade between Member States. Only annual and semi-annual vineyards were the reason for the European Commission's warning and, consequently, for the freezing of funds. This is how we announced the European Union's instructions to DeSUS in the previous term when we adopted the amendment of the Law on Public Roads or at the time of the introduction of the vineyards, so we were not even surprised at the warning of the European Union. However, one question arises as to the price of vignettes as defined by the proposer. In fact, the annual vignette would later cost 95 euros, a monthly 35 euros and a weekly 15 euros. Viewed with the eyes of the common man, a worker whose car is necessarily sick to arrive at a job where he gets a minimum wage at the end of the month is the proposed price of an annual vignette expensive. In our view, it is a high degree of exhilaration, also in terms of the greater flow of motorways, as the latter are intended, but today we have just the opposite situation, almost once again we will give for the annual vignette, and the flow will become worse as parts of them keep closing down sections on motorways after a year or two at the same section. We are interested in what these workers are doing or what the Minister is doing to avoid cases such as the Šentwich tunnel, which has risen from 41 million to 123 million euros. However, as our country's duty is to introduce short-term vignettes, as the European Commission requires us to do, and this will also release the frozen financial resources from the cohesion fund needed to build unbuilt motorway sections. In this light, we support the proposed amendment by the DeSUS Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. We will not, of course, support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Why? Simply because the vignette system is as good and affordable for Slovenians as it is and as such enables the unloading of traffic on very poor and unmaintained state roads, which have been neglected by the construction of motorway links over the years. You blame the new one for reaching too deep into the pockets of citizens and citizens, for almost 75% are being auctioned and it will be collected, interestingly, less money into this cash register. This collection of money, however, pays for the borrowing of credits, ladies and gentlemen, and why would we instill the wine system simply because the European Commission has frozen the funds without any court decision, because it is remembered by a European Commissioner who does not see too much of our minister. Who gives him such powers and who is this gentleman from Italy, who can choose by choice not to give this money to Slovenia. Slovenia did not seriously object to this position at the level of the Ministry. On the working body, we demanded that we see a document in which Slovenia expressed resentment, a complaint over Brussels's will, and we have not seen it. However, a comparison of the discriminatory or non-discriminatory nature of tolling in Europe is possible as soon as we leave Slovenia, either on the Croatian side or on the Italian side. Ladies and gentlemen, the working salary planned for vacation stays on the Croatian highway if you want to cross it all the way across its length, or in Italy, because highways are very, very expensive there. Of course, I want to know why we're going back to increasing mortality on state roads. Now we're going to raise the price of highway access and it's going to increase, normally, traffic on state roads that are like that. But every year we die on these roads, ladies and gentlemen, for one class of children; this is what statistics say. Why don't we just introduce a monthly and weekly vignette, and leave these prices as such, annual and six-year-olds. Why are we teasing for 75% of a year's vignette? This is my question, Mr Secretary-General, and of course I would like an answer. What will Slovenia do if Europe, despite introducing blames for a shorter period of time, because we do not have serious guarantees that it will release resources, what Slovenia will do if Europe insists on its decision? If this Italian Commissioner continues to be stubborn and does not wish to withdraw his willful decision. Dear Minister, will you tell me what Slovenia will do? Will we then go with a delegation to Brussels or to the European cash register for this money? Alone? The Italians are actually very dislikable with the Slovenians, and if we look at who this Italian Commissioner is, this decision is simple, believe me, that there is this rabbit and this causal link in this bush. It is discriminatory for Slovenia to rape us into forming a price approach for the payment of motorways within the legal framework, but they themselves do not have more accessibility and I simply do not understand and we do not understand in the Slovenian National Party how such a measure could have been followed after the first official notice, which results in the fact that we do not understand it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The construction of motorway legs, which are in the final stages, stands. [[...]] Therefore, we would also further ask for answers to these questions by the Minister-designate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has Franco Yuri - no. The word is Rudolf Petan. I should have Rudolf Petan's word on the list, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. Well, I certainly won't support this marriage as a whole. But I will support our amendment for a simple reason, because the whole marriage is one stupid and harmful paradigm, obviously, of this new government. As an interesting situation has arisen, the result of these new vineyards is that services for Slovenian citizens will be raised almost twice and the country will, interestingly, collect less money. This is a really interesting situation. We'll pay the citizens more and the country will get less. So we'll all have less together. Obviously, only this government, the other government, can do this. Of course, the whole thing has a very rich history. On the basis of some concern from a third-class European official, the current government has changed the vignettes which are limited for a limited period of time. The Commission did not ask for it, it could only require a court, but I do not know if the Slovenian government intervened at all, whether it complained or whether it had done something or kneeled before I do not know who. I don't understand that either. But because you have so many excuses for the European Union - this is Larry Fari. You will not convince me of this, and I also doubt that you would kneel before a third-rate European official, who is even at the back talking about how you have dealt with him. Otherwise, I don't believe it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Anderlich, please, if you'll calm down so I can tell. [[...]] This amendment is broad and I can explain it quite broadly. I hope I have a word with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u29	Looks like you got it. I'd talk if I were you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The fact is that the Commission has not requested and there is also no decision of the European Court of Justice that would require Slovenia to change it under urgency. And I would also say that nothing was blocked in Slovenia, nothing was blocked. Moreover, as far as I know, these funds, if blocked, are also in all the funds provided by Slovenia for motorways, in this case Dars, so small that it would not be worth changing the vignette system. The fact is that the final effect of this change, which the Government has been preparing for a long time, has been immediately announced in the beginning that the Government will change after a rapid procedure and I can say that it has done well in this case that it has not rushed and has done too quickly - because it will do damage even this year. Because this is obviously the case, she kneeled down, say, in front of some third-rate European official, so she was still too fast, even though she was slow. The fact is that in this case the interests of Slovenia and Slovenia were not defended, but the interests of those who occasionally travel through Slovenia. These are the facts. It is also true that highways are built by the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say Slovenian taxpayers, and then it would be logical for the whole system to be built on the interest of those who pay roads which build roads, these are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is to say, the vignette system should be one that protects the interests of those who build, not those who yell to them if tourists want to come to them, that Slovenian roads are too expensive. How cheap are roads with neighbours if Slovenian citizens go as tourists to them? In Croatia, I think you can only get to Split twice and pay for an annual vignette, only twice. What about here? And the Slovenian government didn't say anything? Why do they have expensive roads? And that's just for paying for the tunnels! And there was no screaming here. Interesting! In Brussels, foreigners who are not members of the EU could possibly be referred, but Slovenia did not convey its views on how expensive they are. There is no conflict here with regard to utility and equality. I believe that, on behalf of the Group of Members, it has been made clear that all these accusations are not being held. What an interest he's taken over here, it's just not clear to me. I can ask myself, what hasn't been encouraged in this term, but let's leave other things at the side. We're only talking about using highways. Along the highways we have great pansies: Slovenia builds motorways. There is nothing to say that Croatia is building the Slovenian motorway. There's nothing in there that says that foreigners are building a Slovenian highway. It says: Slovenia builds motorways. According to this logic, it would be right for Slovenians to have words about what kind of payment will be, but if we build motorways, if not, then put those tables down. If so, we probably have something to say to Slovenians and Slovenes about how we're going to pay for it. Interestingly, I would also understand that the Government may have been apprehensive because it had only just taken up a mandate and if that were true, it would have kneeled before a third-rate official in Brussels who, I do not know, did not like the Slovenians, or the minister, or another official, if it had at least benefited from it. But no. Slovenians and Slovenes will pay more to use highways and the country will have less money. It's a phenomenon. I couldn't believe it at first. When I look at this amendment, it doesn't seem to be fully placed. At first, I couldn't believe that it was even possible to pay more, but the country actually has less. This is some kind of innovation that I don't know how it worked. At first glance, it's not possible to pay more, and you have less. But apparently in this case, the government succeeded. I'm in the final stages so I don't talk about how I'm going to vote in this law. I will, without being against it, I can say that I find it very harmful, unfair and unfair to those who build Slovenian motorways, which are taxpayers and who also most use roads. But I will support, of course, this amendment of ours, because we think it makes sense and gives, if nothing else, to think in the right direction that highways are intended for those who use them and also those who build them. Especially the ones we pay. We are building such a system where money is valid, where the payer must also have a certain right and a certain word, not that those who pay nothing in the construction of highways just use it, pollute that they have the main word. That is why, of course, I will not support the law as such, because I cannot support it because it is contrary to the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. First of all, what the current government has done. The former government has also been quite successful in what it has done. For example, it was able to block millions and millions of euros of European funds on the basis of a pre-election candy that proved to be so bad and inadequate that even the previous Prime Minister, Janez Janša, acknowledged that the current system would need to be changed when he was still Prime Minister. So there is no doubt that the system had to be changed and now this is happening. The pressure of the European Union - including Austria has tried to introduce the Polish system years ago and Austria has also received the same pressure, the same perceptions and Austria has changed its system. With regard to the system itself, vinjet, the flat-rate system. Each flat-rate system is basically unfair to those who do not use it. This is the definition of a flat-rate system. We could also agree, as we did in the tolls, that we would pay our mobile phones flat-rately, every 50 euros a month and a dot. It would probably pay a lot of money to many in this hall, but what about all those people who use it less. Is that fair to them? Well, the same goes for tolls. The flat-rate system is basically unfair and depends on how many options you have in the flat-rate system, and depending on how close this system is to some kind of justice, it approaches that everyone can choose the payment that is most appropriate for its use. The proposed amendment allows for more choice. It is therefore more appropriate, not for other drivers from the European Union or elsewhere, but for Slovenian citizens and citizens, because it allows them to choose more. I am surprised that this debate forgets those, almost 300,000 people who do not use or use motorways very rarely to whom this system is extremely unjust, and forgets about these people. These 300,000 people, who are mostly people who are economically less fit, just forget about them. This system will allow them to pay less if the highway is paid less. That is why this system is also more equitable and, of course, I fully support it as a social democrat. The question of the price of vignette. We can agree that guilt will be free of charge or that there are no highways, that highways are completely free and here I can see that even some of you are nodding. Do we know what that means? This means that then 100% will all pay the same. Those who use the highway every day, 300 times a year, for example, like those who use it once a year. And I'm wondering, does that seem fair to you? Does it seem fair to you that a person who uses a highway once a year pays the same price as one who uses it 300 times a year? It's not fair. And that's why there are systems that regulate this justice. Before that, it was with tolls, which actually accounted for the use of the highway on a transported mile, and today you blame where the consumption of the highway is accounted for for a certain time. And this change allows for a greater choice in terms of how long I will gain the right to use the highway. With regard to the apparent fact that this change will mean more traffic on state roads. It's a flat-rate omen without any real basis. I invite everyone, summer's coming, maybe we'll have some vacations too. Come to Koper, come to the highway of Škofija-Koper, to the state road of Škofija-Koper and take a look at the state of traffic. But please come before July 1st! And how catastrophicly traffic has increased and increased the risk on these state roads, because many, both foreign and Slovenian citizens, who seem to have almost paid €55 for those two, three kilometres each day from Ankara to Koper, for example, and are driving along state roads. The more chaos, the more people stop, the foreigners who ask how against, for example, Croatia, back to Italy. So already with this system, traffic on state roads has increased on certain legs, border legs, and so has the danger on these state roads. And we are already talking about the fact that we will have to introduce a light or a circle on some intersections where this was not necessary at all before - because of the fantastic introduction of vignettes, which of course predicted these things. Why have not the vinjets introduced the meriolation and upgrading of these roads? Besides, over the last four years, I've been wondering what was ever done to do this without allowing cheaper payment of roads, but allowing people to alternatively use a passenger car and use roads? What about public transport, what about railways where nothing was done? Catastrophe! What about the new Coper-Givics track, etc., railway upgrades? My associate Verlich and I had been in dialogue years ago when we were talking about Trieste, or somewhere else about railway upgrades, and we were also talking about actually professional data, and I was thrilled at what he told me. However, it is true that this reality has failed as expected or that it is going much slower. I am pleased that, as one of the priorities of the new Minister of Transport, he mentioned the railway and public transport, because if one of the prospects for transport in Slovenia is public transport and public transport on railways. Finally, what will Slovenia do if the European Union insists? As far as I am aware, even in direct discussions, the Automobile Club Italy has already expressed that it is true that prices cannot be discussed and that, although it considers that they are still high for foreigners, there is no possibility of complaining about the European Union at all about prices, we can expect to have responded to the one where Slovenia was weak and to respond effectively to the one where Slovenia was already in line with the rules. And here I am pleased that the Minister has decided not to simply react to any possible hints by Brussels that Brussels will set prices for us. You know very well how much the Commissioner of the European Union wanted the vineyard to cost - €5. And you know what the answer to the Minister of Transport was: "This is not the responsibility of the European Union." And that's where I end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Somehow we are trying to say that everything that the previous government has done is worthless, and that everything good for the little man that the previous government has done has to be changed. But people have a different opinion on this, so I would like to point out some things today, when we are considering at least our two amendments to the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, which also contains the definition of the vignette system. You know, you need to look back a little bit and figure out why the previous government decided on a transitional system. I repeat, this is a transitional system that has been urgently needed for several reasons, and let me list only a few of the most important: to increase traffic flow. You know, if we found out today and really wanted to serve with the right information, then we would see that this was absolutely necessary. Reducing environmental pollution - that was the second reason. I hope there's no one who disagrees. Let's get this over with. There's a lot more. What is very important, however, is that with some approach, with someone not to say social, approach, the previous government also acted in this system, and in this case, when it tried to protect our people, Slovenian citizens, who were already in the form of taxes for the construction of a highway network in the Republic of Slovenia. The ones you're seeing today as pre-election candy, yes -- they might even agree in some way, because people said hello, but it probably wasn't the intention of the previous government to hunt voters with this. If this, let's say, is evident today that you are doing this because they are European elections, they would say no. So we also reject these constant claims that it was a pre-election candy. People don't take it that way because they can calculate. If, after the current system has been in place, the purchase of a semi-annual vignette for €35 or the purchase of an annual vignette for €55, this is likely to be something other than what the current government proposes, that the annual vignette will cost €95, that the monthly vignette will cost between €30 and €35, and that the weekly vignette will be €15 if the European Parliament and Mr Taiana agree. You know, here's where my thinking stops in favor of the Slovenks and the Slovenians. Are we really Slovenians so frantic that we still want and want to meet someone else at the expense of our people? It is not right and it is not fair to encourage this in these times of crisis. Of course, I appeal to all of you to support our two proposed amendments and leave the vignette system where it has been, it is better and more favourable for our people. And let me have one more thing. If I recall correctly, the current Minister of Transport started to deal with vignettes, in fact, in last year's pre-election campaign. I believe that a lot of his time was involved in the vignette business. You know, at the expense of that, it must have suffered something else. I am afraid that road safety will not suffer, where the sectoral legislation in the previous mandate has been amended to allow the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior to pay more attention and work together, in the interest of certain measures to reduce the sea on Slovenian roads. And if we look today, the seas on Slovenian roads don't stop. We are just before the summer season when the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior presents some measures that would help improve road safety, but unfortunately the Ministry of Transport deals with vineyards that will be worse for Slovenian citizens, and the Ministry of the Interior deals with the politicisation of the Slovenian police instead of working to increase road safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u35	Mr. Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u36	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course I won't support the amendment. But I will gladly support the law on public roads for a simple reason, because it is time for things to settle. And as usual, so today a lot of manipulations have been said, a lot of untruths, and things need to be taken seriously and evaluated. I agree with my opposition colleagues that the actual introduction of vignettes was a temporary or transitional system, as has been said. However, this temporaryity or transitional system lasts, lasts and lasts. The communication was made clear at the time of the introduction that this matter was to be completed already this June. A clear statement was also made by the distinguished John Janša, in which electronic tolling of passenger vehicles will have been carried out since 1 January 2010 and so on. Well, there was actually a lot of promise. Thus, it was proportionately normal to conclude that this was a preeminent promise and a preeminent gift. But I don't put a lot on these things, which is why I just want to say what everyone kind of claims and doesn't hold. I can say clearly, and it's nice to hear that in the previous system we paid for the ride from Šentil to Kopra 10.55 euros. I'll say again: from Šentil to Koper 10.55 euros for one ride! Is it logical, then, that with 55 euros for an entire year's vignette we can fill up Dars' cash register? It doesn't make any sense! And there's something that needs to be done. This thing is ahead of us today. It is a matter of irritation, which is true that the percentage is slightly higher, but if this annual percentage were to be divided into months, it would be 6% and 3 euros per month. I will now stress what is most important and what you avoid most in the opposition. The 2005 study, Umar prepared it, showed that the price of the annual vignette should be between 125 and 166 euros - from 2005, the study of Umarja! I don't know why we'd say things today, make fun of them, and so on. I am also surprised that today you all say in one voice that our highways are expensive and so on. That's not true. Go to Austria, go once to Austria through tunnels, for each tunnel you have to pay separately. So on every ride for each tunnel pay separately. And by no means do I wonder who will use our roads. Our roads will be used by all those who so far use them, even if this vinite will be slightly more expensive. Of course, there are still some things that need to be cleared up. That is, I am from the Styrian end and the highway section of Slivnica-Drazenci will be completed within the expected deadline, of course, which is probably normal, because the European Union funds are being reimbursed and if we do not get this matter off the agenda, as far as the European Union is concerned, it is not said that this Slivnica-Drazenci road will now be compromised, but other projects financed from the European Union and will be frozen, as this is likely to be clear. Thus, nothing can be manipulated from this context. But I would only do the following for the end today. So, highway Slivnica-Drazenci, I have to admit that I'm happy to read this, is the width of one lane 3.75 meters, the lanes are 2.50 meters, the edge of the lanes is 0.50 centimeters. I said that only on account of it, because it's a real highway, not like we have in Pomura when it's not a real highway, which is why I gave this comparison. That's how I have to cheer myself up from this context, and I'll be happy when this opening comes. In the end, I want to make it clear that we want everyone who rides the highways to have the toll done electronically - and that it will be as honest as possible: let everyone pay as much as they transport miles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good day to all present! Well, from all this, we can only conclude one thing that the introduction of vignettes in the previous term or last year was a good decision. You recognize this by simply changing the prices of vignettes and not establishing a new system. You admit that this was a good decision and do not say that it was a bad decision. This decision was good for Slovenians and Slovenians. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose deleting these articles because we believe that the situation as it is is good and, above all, sustainable. What was the purpose of establishing a system of tolling with vignettes? In particular, ensure accuracy and make it as user-friendly as possible. Especially for Slovenian users, i.e. Slovenians and Slovenians, who can be said to drive a lot along the roads. It has already been made clear that the introduction of vignettes is a temporary solution which will later be upgraded by a single European toll system. And by doing so, I think there are no problems and no problems, and we are always and everywhere defending why we have introduced such a system. Even in Europe. In my view, the system is economically sustainable. This shows all the studies, and so do you, when you said that now that we are introducing new prices, will actually flow from 8 to 20% less money into the cash register than it has been so far when the prices were the same as they were. So now we're teasing the vines, but the budget or the funds will get smaller. It doesn't make any sense here. I object to the introduction or amendment of this law for one simple reason: because I believe that the argument that the European Commission is asking for it does not, in my opinion, hold back because the European Court, not the European Commissioner, nor the one who sent it to you or sent it to Slovenia, should decide on discrimination, I have seen it, and in fact it is not a Commissioner, but an official. I would expect more determination, more determination on the part of the government to stand up for ourselves and set clear limits, to where and to where we'll let go. Take a look at the example of Croatia. How Slovenian policy could be unified within Croatia. We have also received a proposal from the Commissioner, who made it clear: I want you to finally agree, I will make a proposal and so on. Look, you could say, okay, okay, the Commissioner said, and we'll do it. And we'll pull over. No, Slovenian politics has united and we said clear no. And so we should say here, and then judge the European Court which is responsible. So it's 73% of the annual vignette, so now the annual vignette is going to be 95 euros, and that's a number that I don't know what it's going to bring us, given that we're going to have significantly less revenue in the budget. There's no logic here, and I don't understand it, and I'll never understand it. Slovenians and Slovenians have estimated last year that this system is good, by changing the price of vignettes only, you also find in the Government that this system is good, so we insist on what we have, what is good, why we should change it. But I wonder what's behind this. There's got to be something in the background here. It doesn't make sense. Less money is going to go up. Prices are going up. So, I wonder if it is really behind the establishment of some expensive toll system introduced by a company based in Zagorje that is strongly linked to one of the parliamentary parties. I'm wondering because it doesn't really make sense why this law is changing. We must decide who we will work for in the Slovenian Parliament - for Slovenians or for foreigners. I think the answer is clear, and there is no need to change. That is why I am advocating this existing regime. I have to say this in the end. Mr Minister, I am seriously counting on you because you seem to me a determined young politician, a good Commissioner, but it is obvious that you have also fallen in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. So, in order to substantiate this amendment, why do we propose that blames remain the way they are, annual and semi-annual, and in view of the invitation of one of the Members to come to Primorska, I propose that, in order to remember why we have introduced them, we now introduce a closed toll system on 1 July at the section of the highway from Ljubljana to Kopra, such as the existing toll system. I suggest this, colleagues and colleagues, and that it is paid as you said, fairly, by a mile, fairly, back with toll stations. And let's see, of course I don't suggest that this would be a whole month I suggest that we do this only for the first weekend, from Friday perfect until Monday morning, and expect all our foreign guests first before the toll station here, on Brezovica, and then - do you know where? - before another toll station on Kozina. And to listen again to what was normal for us, that these columns were 6, 7, 11 kilometers long, to wait for an hour and a half, two hours in heat, in the sun, and that workers of the Red Cross were kind enough to share water with people who would pay a fair toll. Then maybe when we see that this is a real success, we'll do the same on the Stairway. There, too, a week later, and to remember again all the columns of trucks and all the projects listed, how to expand the toll station so that the trucks can drive. I suggest this, I suggest, to remind ourselves why we have introduced the blames, I guess I don't have to explain it anymore. The story of tolling is not the story of the previous government, the story of tolling and highway began in the 1960s, where it was really decided that all motorways that would be built would be built as closed toll roads, that is to say that every connection to the toll. However, on 1 October 1993, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision to terminate direct toll collection in the Republic of Slovenia on 1 July 2004. And then soon we come to a conclusion, also adopted once by the Committee of the National Assembly at the time for infrastructure and the environment, and then by the Government - depending on how the laws were adopted and what the powers were between the National Assembly and the Government - to go to an open toll system, first to Stajerska highways and toll stations, which were already built there for a closed toll system, have been discontinued and the front toll stations have been built. Well, we had a fair toll system! Not 2004-2008, earlier. The system that caused this - I will now say - that those who drove from Ljubljana to the sea paid by mile, those who drove on the Stairway - you know how: by avoiding tolls. It looks like a mountain highway. In short, a solution was sought and a system was created that began to raise less money. And then in 2001, at the end of 2001 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - which government is it? - decided to build up toll stations in order to raise more money. Just remember which were: Vodice, Vogrsko, Ivančna Gorica, Krtina, Lukavica. And what happened? It has happened that from the customers who are now very intensely rooting for the change of the vinite system, they are to encourage the locals to - start something: civil initiatives. No toll stations will be built! So we need to be pretty balanced here! And I am confident that the suburban highway with new toll stations that would be built with a closed system - today would be a civil initiative that would ban any construction of the toll station. Between finding solutions with satellites, microwaves. Here, too, something has to be acknowledged that the European Commission has also passed the exam here, one of the European policies, the White Paper on European transport policy, predicted that in 2008 Galileo, which would release the possibility of interoperability of toll systems, would already be operational. This has not happened and here Slovenia, as a Member State, could be retorting the European Commission, demanding how the Member States believed that something would happen but did not. Here, you know, there are a lot of questions for the Commission and the Commissioner! Because then some hands, some introduction of domestic systems cannot be tied to the promises made by the European Commission. So, you see, Slovenia also has quite a few arguments for the European Commission. By now talking about guilt being the worst possible solution we could have made in the previous term, it is not true. We wanted exactly what I said in the beginning, that could have happened this year if we didn't have a vignette. Transport flow has increased, and it is certain that smaller congestions, smaller congestions and much better environmental balance are associated with this, as far as greenhouse gases are concerned. Here I think we are very comparable for one of the European policies. There's nothing here, because we can't argue with it, and I don't think any of us would object to it. Why, then, change something that has brought benefits? And a fellow Member who says that this system is weak, but it comes from the end, where - I'm talking about the Goran highway - the average annual PLDP, is said to have increased the daily traffic by 12 thousand vehicles on the highway, which means that you have 12 thousand less on the side roads. So if it's not good for traffic safety, for traffic flow, then I don't know. Then I don't know where the argument is to say it's bad. Of course, it is bad, bad, because it will be 73% for Slovenian citizens, because nothing will change in relation to foreigners, nothing will change - whether it will pay twice as much as 15 euros when it crosses Slovenia, then it will be 30 euros, or 35 euros will remain, because proportionality must also be given in price. I do not understand this proportionality in this case, and I admit that then I am closer to Commissioner Taiani's position that there should be €5. That's proportionate. And it is a shame, when we were barely at the beginning of the journey, when we received only the first warning, where the government has a great opportunity to react and defend its views, even for all these reasons mentioned, we do not do so. I don't know why. I really don't know. And I don't know if we're being judged on the committee now, our determination, by how we advocate something that is for us, Slovenia. I have often said that highways, which are crowded in Slovenia, do not have them in Brussels. And if we're so determined to defend Croatian positions, then I don't know. Then the Commission probably has no hard work with Slovenia, because in the case of vignettes - very easy - you send one official reminder and the official writes one post - and the vignette system changes. I don't need it! And I don't think there's any need to change that. Let him stay, for this equation, that the price of an annual vignette will be higher, but less money will be collected, is clear. Because as soon as you tease, you lower your interest in driving on the freeway. But probably - I think that the interest in having highways is not that people will avoid highways because of high tolls or vignettes, but that highways will be used. If we went back now to look at all these magnetograms, and if we started in 1993, when the first decision of the National Assembly was adopted, we would probably come to the conclusion that the desire was to slowly find that highways no longer serve Slovenian citizens, to close and serve only transit, to domestic needs, and not Slovenians. And that's probably why we're thinking this way to open the highways. And if this option is given and allowed by the Member State to bring blame and we have had that courage and we have done so, I think it was for the benefit of all of us, for the sake of traffic safety. Too bad to change, we will only do this: Slovenians will pay 73% more and foreigners will have confusion when they buy vineyards, not to mention all the other aspects and complications involved. But when we talk about Dars' financial sustainability, nothing is said about how much money would cost those toll stations that I mentioned earlier, and the new ones that would build them and so on, which are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. I'm aware that this is not a popular measure. And of course any measure that is not popular, but is necessary, is difficult and requires, of course, a certain explanation. At first glance, the system looks non-discriminatory. But when you get a little deeper into things, you find out two things. The first is that there are two types of discrimination. One is direct discrimination, where the price of guilt would be for our citizens, for example, 55 euros at an annual level, and for others 110. That would be direct discrimination. Then there is indirect discrimination and indirect discrimination has already been established in some cases and case law of the European Union shows what the Court has shown in the European Community in the Oflin case, that the evidence standard is sufficient that the system is more likely to lead, is enough that it is more likely to lead - there is no need to prove with court numbers that discrimination has taken place. Thus, such a low standard of evidence is needed that it is likely that a foreign citizen is discriminated against. In this legal assessment, it would be too much poker to go to court and try to argue that such a system at a six-year price is not discriminatory, because unprecedented law shows this when we have, of course, in-depth examination and determination, so also this different attitude towards this issue. The fact that the country will now look out for domestic users is, of course, an insidious matter. It is also a gruesome matter because it is a time of recession, but let us drink pure wine: very few citizens of the Republic of Slovenia believe it is a real price, 55 euros a year. I can tell you on my case, there's a lot of people on their own who can figure out how much he's paid for highways before and how much he's paying now. For every euro over €55 that you have paid before and now you don't, we have to pick it up somewhere. When you accepted this system, you even wrote in the file that we were going to pick it up from transit passengers. Of course, the European Union is not so unrealistic that it does not look at the material that has been written in the introduction of the law and is direct evidence that our government has given to the European Commission if it goes to court! Direct evidence, which would put us at risk of a severe punishment that is so high that, of course, everyone turns to these numbers. It's not true that we're going to raise less money on this system right now because we've been tossing trucks. Of course, at this time of recession, it's disgusting because we've encouraged 40%, but we've gone against one other measure that's going to help us - we've reduced their spending, which is going to go beyond what I'm going to bring. Moreover, Croatia and Switzerland cannot be quoted as being not members of the European Union and not bound by the acquis of the European Union. That's all I have to say. Of course, there is a lot of talk that an official wrote one letter in Slovenia and that we are kneeling. Look, this official who wrote is the official who approves or does not approve the funds. This is the Director-General of the Regional Policy Directorate, and we have his letter stating that the Commission has examined our role for that major project - I am talking about Slivnica-Drazenci - and that the condition of compliance with other Community policies is not met: the legal basis of Regulation 1083/2006. So that's what they stopped us from doing, and that's the person who's competent to write it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and colleagues! All present! In the introduction, the Minister-General said that the Government, on this proposal coming to the National Assembly and which irritates the guilty and, at the same time, we heard in the Government's argument that it would be collected from this title less money because it is illogical for every average Slovenian, following the European Commission's admonition on discriminating in vineyards. He said that the European Commission has concluded that foreigners are in a worse position than citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. A little earlier, he also explained that it was necessary to distinguish between direct discrimination or discrimination at different prices for foreigners and households and indirectly where he referred to the position of the Court of Justice of the European Community where it was found that if the system was more likely to lead to discrimination, it was discriminatory. I've already talked to the board about it, so I'll be here a lot shorter, obviously I haven't convinced anyone. The reminder that came came on October 2nd. It was a relatively irrelevant matter. However, since it was a transitional government, it responded and proposed to extend the deadline for reply, which would also be determined. And the conclusion of this note reads: "After reviewing the comments, or if the comments are not submitted within the prescribed time limit, the Commission may issue a reasoned opinion." Only a reasoned opinion should be reached in order to be able to talk about whether the European Commission is right or wrong. We didn't come to this because we still don't know if you answered anything or not in writing. Apparently, you didn't answer anything and you didn't justify anything. For if we respond to what has been written in this document, it has been written that it seems, this is how the new Slovenian vignette can act primarily to the detriment of nationals of other Member States, as it essentially punishes those drivers who do not reside in Slovenia and only occasionally use the highway network. And then an example was mentioned in the Commission's opinion of someone who goes from Graz through Slovenia to Zagreb, paid 1.50 euros earlier, now paying 35 euros. And what did the government or the ministry do? Did the government or the ministry say that there is a Slovenian citizen in the same situation who travels on the same route and wants to drive only once a year? She didn't say that! There is no direct or indirect discrimination. None! We all pay the same price for the same uses in the vineyard system as we now have. And discrimination, discrimination, not direct, not indirect. She's not here! We also have alternatives. Those who use the motorway network only once or twice a year and do not want to pay €35 per semi-annual vineyard will be driven on state roads, which are free of charge. So it's all over the world, and it's not true that the current system of vignettes is too cheap and that many people think it's too cheap, so it's normal that it's right to imitate. That's not true. Let us look at neighbouring countries and see that far from being 55 years old, 35 years old, among the cheaper - it is sustainable, as has been proven in the past. And there is no basis for us to turn it into a bad one, to tease 75 per cent a year, to tease six times a month, because from 35 euros a half a month we come to 35 euros a month, and to introduce 15 euros a week, which will not be of any use to this citizen. For him, this system will be just as discriminatory as it was now. Exactly the same. If it goes eight days ago, it will pay 30 euros, which is almost half a year's present value of vinyl. So, instead of the government, the Ministry against this warning, based on a formal way that there was no discrimination and acted as a good, responsible master, it fell to the full, at the expense of all, not only Slovenian citizens and citizens, even at the expense of those foreigners who are crossing Slovenia to the sea and will pay even more than they are paying now. So the revenue from the vignette system is going to go down despite the irritation, you raised the toll for freight traffic, you inspired the story on the whole line, and there are no effects. It's about justice. You say the system is fair. Is the annual reimbursement system for the use of roads that we all pay when we register a vehicle and the insurance is fair according to this explanation? We all pay for annual road refunds and annual insurance. Someone makes the same price a hundred thousand kilometers a year and someone makes five thousand. So is this system unfair? Are you going to change that, too? The amendment must be supported, because what you're proposing is one great stupidity to the detriment of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! I would suggest that the Government act as an EU member. This is not Belgrade, which specifies something, and then we accept it. As a member, Slovenia has many ways to achieve the desired goal. We have a European Commissioner who is very high on the scales and could probably do something about it. We have the opportunity to defend our solutions, to explain, to complain and so on. I must say that I am very troubled by your constant suspicions, you assume that something will happen, that the European Court of Justice will punish us, the Second Minister believes that there will be no lawyers for free legal aid, and the Third Minister assumes something else. Let us deal with specific matters at a given time, not with assumptions as to what will happen if it ever happens. In your explanation of the amendment of the law you write about a moderately optimistic scenario - according to moderate optimism it will be so, otherwise it will be so. I'm glad you're optimistic, but at the same time you're telling us that the system was unrealistic, and with such an unrealistic system, it's almost incredible that we were able to gather more than we're going to be in your moderately optimistic scenario and so on. Obviously you have no other ideas like raising such excise duties, raising prices of vignettes. I would suggest that we just start working for the benefit of our citizens, not everyone else. The approval of funds for the Slivnica-Drazevci project is a completely different story. If this government were to work for the citizens, it would also be able to explain and take all the roads it has at its disposal as a member of the European Union. As has already been said, it is legal to justify that the law, i.e. the vinite system, is not discriminatory on the basis of nationality, with some lawyers who are probably not so few in the transport ministry, could properly explain these things and, as it is said, use all the ways we have, from the European Commissioner to the possibility of appeal and everything else that makes possible our membership in the European Union. I will, of course, support the amendment to Article 2 proposed in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u48	Your Honor! We have on the table a so-called "fireman" law that corrects what is necessary to fix, because it's not good because others find it because we find it. And it would be right, in my opinion, to look at what the system itself is, how from a technical point of view, how it is financially sustainable, what it brings in all other respects, when we are talking about collecting or collecting some money for that, because someone is using something, some benefits and, of course, is obliged to pay it as well. We would also have another possible solution, yes, you can go 16, 18 years ago and you say in 1993 a fancy Member proposed, and it was also accepted that we would stop tolling in Slovenia within a period of not knowing how long. That's impossible! If we could do that, then we would do it somewhere else, in another country, but obviously national economies, as well as Slovenian economies, are not being tolerated. Part of the costs arising from the construction, maintenance and management of the motorway system are passed on to users. It is a system that operates everywhere and is introduced practically everywhere, except for the rare exception they are and so it is with us. I was sure that we would be looking for solutions - what today, tomorrow, for the longest time for Slovenia would be the most appropriate, financially sustainable and even comparable with other countries, where possible or done in such a way as to legally maintain these decisions. The Holy Forgiveness is when you talk about the need to stand up and we will win and we will defeat no one in the European Union who will no longer give us the brains and the like. It is underestimating, and I really ask that when someone speaks underestimatingly about the European Commissioners and the European Commission in this area - today we have heard everything possible - just give him a warning. If we do not respect the European Commissioners of the European Commission, after all this is our commission, there is no one up there. If you used to stink at Belgrade, then probably the same practice cannot now apply to the European Union because it is based on some different arrangements, on, I suppose, democratic arrangements and, of course, applicable to all parties. It bothered me when we were changing the toll system, of course, with the behaviour that - some Members, but in the government - were actually trying to shut down that system that was just because they didn't like the operators of technology equipment, as well as some other solutions that had been used and that someone else had to come. It is therefore necessary to go two steps back in order to take a step forward, and to introduce a transitional regime, that is to say, you are guilty of then arriving at free-flow tolls, perhaps with a system that has unfortunately also been promised by the European Union and an agreement within that it will be uniform, accessible to all, and that it will be possible to do more with the help of the satellite. However, the most disturbing thing was that an action plan for preparation had been adopted in Slovenia and some things would already be very far off in order to enter the free-flow tolling system, and this action plan had been cancelled, and it was supposed to be adopted by a new one, which would allow for this free-flow toll during a period of time. I believe that all temporary regimes last as long as possible. There's an incredible amount of experience. I am afraid that this temporary solution with these vineyards will also be irrelevant, regardless of whether we will be negotiating here on weekly, monthly, semi-annual, annual prices of EUR 5 or 30, which is irrelevant, but the fact is that this Slovenia, even in the previous system, with Minister Bajuk, has been incredibly persecuted when some of us begged that we should not replace the budget portion of the highway financing and the earmarked money for this from the previous petrol toll and later after the Law on the Purposeful Collection of Road Construction Resources, not to lose this money in the integrated budget, but to devote one part to the construction of motorways. No, credits are so cheap that if we didn't take them, regardless of the fact that we warned them that they would be returned as soon as possible, we agreed on a funding system that is not sustainable. That will be said by all those who deal with it. If they talk about the repayment deadlines of 30, 40 and more years, while we can monitor how the renewals and at any time need to be carried out and also financed, it is more or less clear that if the structure of the revenues from the use of motorways and, of course, also other payments that Dars receives from the rental of premises, services, etc., is changed and if we do not make at least approximately predictable depreciation by the end of the repayment of credits, then we are poorly written down. These highways are not something that is there from Maribor to Šentil, from Šentil until I don't know where. We benefit citizens and citizens as many times as possible and as much as possible, this simply does not work. That's not working. For the cost is such that the account which is made at the end shows a great difference. Many arguments, which have already been repeated several times, why this system was better - the flow, have been overcome by congestion. If we analyze it, last fall, September and October was the most stagnation in the history of highways due to two wrong decisions. One is that roads must not be repaired during the summer, where the least traffic has been demonstrated and roads are being repaired throughout Europe from 15 July to early September, the least traffic is at this time. We didn't fix the roads at the time. I am not saying that certain tasks should be interrupted during the weekends when there are the largest migrations, but when you find that out, you will come to the conclusion that this was just an excuse and the delays were exactly the same or greater. If you really wanted to remove congestion at toll stations, then you would simply give everyone ABC cards on the ABC track for free. At least I'm alone, but I'm a daily road user, never stood up, never stood up. Even against Postojna no, against Grosuplje anyway, or against Ivančna gorica, where the mayor, who has demonstrated for many years there - today you are talking about a civil initiative. No, it wasn't a civil initiative. They didn't let us set up toll stations, organized. But that doesn't even matter what it was, what it was. We have heard today about the error of all decisions, almost since the beginning of the serious construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, since 1993. But I wonder whether, on the basis of these experiences and assumptions that are now realistically assumed, when Slovenia can get a changed system and that this is true, what we now have is a temporary patching of a hole, which has been created in a legal sense, but I am not talking about meeting the requirements of the European Union, but simply that we are right to our institutions in Brussels, which are acting as if it is going to cost, but not who will beat, and how it will beat. As it can be predicted, the Minister could explain, however, I believe that he already has certain ideas or suggestions on the table, as with a plan that would in some future give other solutions. Because if we just consider that there was a plan, but the previous government had called it off, it could have been completely different for me. I'm not getting into this. However, I know that it is necessary and possible, at a time when technological development is so rapid, to find a solution that will be more effective, which will correspond to current or future times. Therefore, in this sense of this innovation, which has been emerging in several laws recently, we are monitoring that all articles are simply deleted and that the law is empty and will not be adopted. It's not so eager to actually fix these things in a direction that would be better than what it is right now. Especially because we don't do anything, it just doesn't work. On a proposal from the Government, the State must amend the law, make it in line with those concerns, objections, demands if you want, which we have on the table and also the Slovenian budget, to provide some more money for us to repay or continue to provide resources for the construction and maintenance of motorways.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I think if someone, who listens to us today through means of communication, electronic media, I'm sure they think we're discussing that you blame yourself as a payment for the use of highways end with this law. That is roughly what our debate today looks like. It is, of course, the other, on the one hand, for the promotion, and on the other hand for the sharing of these vignettes for shorter periods of time. I cannot assess now whether this measure is really necessary and how it will contribute to the release by the European Union of the resources needed to build this infrastructure, or whether the decision and the legal basis on the part of the European Union are so strong that it can continue to block these funds. Nevertheless, I find it a little humiliating that some individuals talk about third - grade officials. This does not seem right to me because I am sure that the President of the previous government did not speak to third-rate officials in Brussels at the time when he himself said that Slovenia would probably have to consider the wines for a shorter period of time. Certainly, the previous President of the Government did not speak to third-class officials. The road system on Slovenian and other motorways is a complex matter and is not played every 14 days to keep the toll system changing. As a result, it is not possible to make different experimental changes over the weekend, but it is possible today's science, with good simulation, of course, to accurately predict the situation on individual sections, on individual subsections, what will happen at a certain point in a certain day on these sections with different tolling systems. The various conclusions of the various bodies were mentioned several times. I also agree with the National Assembly whether in 1993, 1994 it adopted a decision on partial opening of tolling, a partial open system or an open system within individual Slovenian provinces, such as Maribor, the region of Celje. In this way, the case took place at the beginning of 1997 by obtaining frontal toll stations and within individual landscapes an open system. This has certainly been one of the worst conclusions that has certainly not led to the fact that tolling would be fair to all users. Let me just start by saying that I calculated myself how much I would have paid for the toll at this point in time if the previous toll system were in place. Roughly or almost exactly as much as I'm going to pay for the wine that the government is going to pay, or what we're going to make possible, which the government is going to undermine on July 1st. It's about the same price, but for a month, that's an annual contribution. About 100 euros for my 60km of highway consumption per day times two, so it's 120 kilometers in both directions, about if someone calculates this contribution according to the previous system, that's it. So, 100 euros per month compared to what is now proposed, I think 95 euros per year. Today we are talking mainly about this, this is a matter of calculation and a proposal from the Government, how it thinks it will close the financial structure. Such a proposal has been calculated by the Government, calculated by the Ministry and with such a proposal, the relevant decision will be taken at the government's meeting, and we will only allow this law to introduce more short-term blames, which are conditional or unconditional, I cannot judge this, with the European Union or with the envisaged decisions of the European Union. Finally, let me just say that I do not imagine that I would be able to answer the question of which toll system is the most fair, fairest and most appropriate for Slovenia, so I have not gladly accepted some information in today's debate that there is no further procedure at the Ministry, with no project to address the proposal for a more fair toll system in Slovenia. I expect the Ministry of Transport to continue this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I think why change what's good, what's running away, what's good for people. That is why I certainly support our amendment to the bill, and the law itself does not make sense to adopt the amendment when the amendment is not adopted. People got used to this toll system and, above all, the main acquisitions, so that there are no more columns, that there are no more quarters of people in the waiting sheet and so on, this problem is solved with vignettes. As we have heard today, it may not have been necessary to jump immediately to the first ball that came from Brussels, but it would have been possible to negotiate something. If, in the end, they might actually have landed on the vineyards for a shorter period of time, perhaps they could negotiate "tuninels" such as those negotiated by the Austrians or perhaps in some other way preserve the existing situation, since the threats from Brussels were not only so severe. Of course, the new higher tariffs will hit the pocket mainly of Slovenia and Slovenia! And since something that is more expensive becomes available to a smaller number of people, it is expected that more expensive vines will buy fewer people and return to state roads. Of course, the higher price of vignettes is not justified by the quality of motorways alone, or it can be asked whether in the construction of the motorway there is no way to find any internal reserves, since we have received analyses and warnings from abroad, and we are also aware that a kilometer of built motorways in Slovenia is too expensive. On individual sections too, quality is very questionable. It took a lot of repairs in the tunnels in the last period to talk about quality construction. So the price of building highways is almost like on the challenging terrain of the Canadian tundra, which is on a floating basis, a demanding construction venture, not in fact the highest quality. I must say that I have met better performances on the European Union road system and it was not necessary to "flash" the first mistakes immediately after the opening. Perhaps the new law is the introduction or preparation of the ground for something else that is happening in the background. In fact, I am thinking of transferring communications from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, so someone is preparing a field to be able to introduce as a solution to the complications that have arisen, problems that have arisen, some electronic or satellite tolling we cannot yet talk about, because the Galileo project has not yet been implemented, but some electronic tolling that will be very expensive. I emphasize, ultra-precious! Especially in the execution of those technical devices itself, plus how much longer will it get the system to build motorways. Today it has also been mentioned, and let us go back to the old system, to to tolling as we already knew it, that is, to toll stations, etc. Every year, when you wait two hours in the hottest sun before Little Chapel and before the Holy Year, there are 16 miles [16 km] in front of the Holy Year, they are not the best starting point for such an opinion. Although I would have personally obtained it because I was returning from office through Vodice, and it was already in the past due to the fact that this was so appropriate for our fellow Member of the Party that he could transport it, it was so much over Vodice that some other Škofjeločniks, etc., were taking advantage of it for free. Even though I wasn't, and I wasn't, and Styrian, I was soon, if I was headed towards Maribor, I soon realized where to turn in Vransk, and when to return to the highway, I drove for free. So, the system in the past was inappropriate, inhuman, anti-environmental. When the vinite system was introduced, it brought so many advantages that the current government only beautifully fixes, beautiful, unfortunately, especially the Slovenes and Slovenes. Since the price will be higher, it will no longer be available to a larger number of people, less wine will be sold and the financial purchase will ultimately sting. It's a shame they're trying to change the system that's been run away and worked well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Brunscoll.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, representatives of the Ministry of Transport, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is a habit of listening, but it is difficult to listen to those who have had the opportunity and the opportunity to do something good for us. It is true, however, that the question is whether they were able to make a change at any given time and, above all, to be fair to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It was not sufficient for some in charge of transport infrastructure, according to data and public information, to primarily travel around the world, to check highways, for example, in Germany, perhaps even in Japan. Why, for example, would today invite members of the Transport Committee to the first weekend of July 1st, from Friday afternoon to Sunday evening, if, despite the introduction of the vignette at that time, the area remains tense. So not just when we had, as some say, a fair, just payment a mile away. However, there was also discrimination, for it was not fair and fair to all of us. We would expect more determination from the government, it was said today. I must say that those who have discussed this have given no or no argument to believe here that these debaters know what it means to be determined. There's no need to change. Interestingly, we would pay nothing, as the former Minister of Transport mentioned earlier, or even less, but we would like to build highways and rebuild roads throughout Slovenia. This is what each of us expects, including the economy. This is also the case with the valley leg, which leads not only to the New City and the White Land, even to Posavje, where some of our colleagues and experts come from for their area. It was also interesting today's debate at the Committee on Finance's meeting that during the economic growth period, we had the largest investment in public good, with minimum public funds, because, of course, the past government has consciously decided to finance the construction of motorways almost exclusively on credit. Finally, the introduction of vignettes, which does not financially allow the repayment of these loans, poses a further threat to the State guarantee scheme as the loans are secured by State guarantees. In this case, I really wonder, as one of my colleagues said, about financial sustainability and, above all, about the business decisions of the introduction of vineyards and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance at a given time. October 2008 was made clear by the previous Government, and it was also stressed that shorter time vignettes would have to be introduced as requested by the Commission of the European Union. At the same time, I wonder whether the realization of this need, i.e. the introduction of vineyards for a shorter time, means the determination of this government, the determination of the Minister of Transport and its co-workers, or even courage and courage. As far as I can see, there is a re-examination of magnetograms at the time of the previous government and the competent ministries and listening to today's debate about some kind of discriminating debate, rather than discriminating the debate, but the contradiction, yes, you have just heard the contradiction, because in October 2008 it was said that it would be necessary to introduce blames for a shorter time, and today it is obvious to the current government and to the Minister what he is doing. Interestingly, today's debate does not take place without demagogic procedures. Work for the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what one debater says, and then another colleague, and so on. Also, there are indications that it is not right that the concern of this government is only in the sense that something is pleasing to the European Commission, but not to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is interesting, however, that we are all united and that in Slovenia we want to improve traffic safety on all our roads. Above all, I think another fact is important. At the moment and from previous mandates, the country is discriminatory to all those who live on the outskirts of Slovenia, whether it is an area along the Schengen border, for example, I live in Beli Krajina, or someone who lives in the Poljanska Valley, perhaps someone in Prekmurje or in Styria or anywhere else, perhaps also in Idrija and Bovska. Everywhere in Slovenia, where we do not have the slightest chance to have, let me just use the expression of one of my colleagues before to have, say, ultra-Achaek access to Ljubljana, to central Slovenia. That's what we'd like. Therefore, I do not think it is right in the debate to talk about the benefits of Slovenian companies if they do not, and in any way to insult anyone. Let us be fair to all, non-discriminatory and reflect on the fact that also by introducing vignettes for a shorter period and also by encouraging vignettes, we will not harm those who drive a lot along highways, but we will act and act as we would like. We live in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We challenge the hungry lion. We do not really know how to do a good work in the National Assembly, much more so as Christianally speaking. Let him know who can. It's smart, you're saying you blame yourself for highways. At the same time, you say that I will be less money in the budget or that this measure will bring less money. At the same time, send us to the National Assembly a document, Members and Members, to the kluk - Proposal for a Law on Consent to the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of 329,000.073. We've had enough of these in the National Assembly, and we've confirmed all the guarantees so far. This measure, presented to us today by smart men in the government coalition, will bring back a minus in unpaid credit accounts, which have also been used in a suspicious way to bring us back a little. You know how the distractions go down, and how the highways are destroyed, how many annexes there were to the contract, and so on, and so on, it's nobody's business, I believe. This minus, which will be accumulated by this new measure that you are proposing, only because Europe so wanted, will bring such a paper back to the National Assembly. Who are you going to owe this debt to? Again to citizens and citizens. While you're already putting a higher price on their shoulders for highways. I have a proposal, leave this price of an annual vignette as it is, and half a year and listen to Brussels and introduce a daily vignette if you want, and weekly and monthly vignettes at your discretion be as affordable as you wish for the Croats. Some Members are so hot cheering from the kind of Mr Luke would mention Yuri, both of them. Croatia is now a problem, Croatia. Who are the Croats? Go from Zagreb to Split and you will see, but I cannot compare them because they are not in the European Union, you said. I'm not gonna compare them. I'm gonna be Italian. This same Commissioner, who cannot see our Minister, because he has too many "streaked" hair, reminds him too much of Sicilian, he has cooked it. He cooked it. It is not, indeed, an upstanding official, a diplomat, perhaps even the President of the Government should react in this case in order to write a protest letter in order to pursue Slovenia and Slovenian interests. What are you going to do with this measure, and that's what I want to say? For years and years you have not invested in state roads, they are in disarray, because we are building highways and with this accessibility to motorways we have actually enabled those who have cheaper wallets to go to highways today and ride in a decent way, and they are finally paying for it from their contributions. Employees are subject to so much and so much tax paid for motorways as well. Slovenia has been building to remind you of these motorways, especially for the needs of Slovenia and Slovenia. Today we are subject to foreigners, Europeans, who think we are discriminatory to them. Tomorrow, when you encourage these highway vignettes by 75%, you will force these people, of course, citizens and citizens to go back to the old, unmaintained, wasteful state roads. We've barely stopped mortality. We haven't cut it down. Once again, for one class of children, we die on the roads. Now you will not increase this measure. If only one traffic operator dies more than a year, you are responsible for this because you are taking this measure. It was about the railroad. What did we do to make the transit more difficult to get on the railroad? The Road Safety Act has been revised three times in the previous mandate and I know all three objectives well. Firstly, to increase the authorisation of axles pressure for truckers, secondly, to reduce the price and, of course, thirdly, to allow gentlemen's truck drivers to carry the cargo at subsidised prices wherever they want, with their requirements, not with ours. And there's no safety, no ecology, no environmental aspects, nothing. They can transport anything. Go transport the environmentally-controversial cargo to Austria, and you will see how well it is arranged there. All such cargo must go to the railroad. And don't let the minister say there's no way to do it. With a single meeting, which can also be convened by telephone, correspondence, it may be decided that such a decision will be taken and that order will be made tomorrow. But no, he's afraid of this lobby that's gonna be at the Department of Truck Traffic tomorrow, and all the engines will be on fire, and the hooves will be full. Why don't we do something that we can do for citizens and citizens, that's what I'm asking myself? Once again, when this account is issued, which is missing in the state budget, I would like to hear from the Minister today, from the representatives of the Government, the person responsible for this action. You're doing something that's puzzled with logic, and these mistakes have to be paid. It's ignorance and ignorance, I don't know, negligence. In fact, we can also look for criminal responsibility in the individual. Now you're convincing us that there will be less money in the state treasury because you're teasing the guilty. Let him who can understand, I don't understand. Excuse me. Once again, this amendment makes sense. Accept the weekly, also daily, can also be the monthly vignette and leave, for God's sake, this price accessibility to citizens and citizens who are happy that we have done it for them. Don't tease this system and put it again with some flossules to a future generation, because we already over-indebted our generations, not just children, but probably your grandchildren, by what we accept. Do you know what kind of debt Slovenia has today? Bigger than Yugoslavia was previously in charge, not once. That's the only thing you don't care about. On what other occasion? Minister, although he is not here - gentlemen of the Government, please warn him - I have previously asked him a clear question: Where do we guarantee that we will really get this money when we take this measure? I want an answer today and here. Second. Why are you teasing the vines, and you claim, nonsense, that less money will be collected from this title? Why don't you leave the price the way they are and introduce, as already said, daily, weekly and monthly vignettes, for half a year and a year, leave the prices the way they are. And where is our government's appeal to the first warning from Brussels that prompted the freezing of the funds mentioned above? Please, clear answers. Where is our response to this warning? Whether we reacted at all or just nodded, we bowed to Vaseline in hand and nodded to all the demands. I want an answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believed that we were members of the European Union and that we are today with our debate in the National Assembly. For moments, I feel like we're in an eight or a pub, which is really nice. I choose those places myself when I want to, with or without wine, thank God there are also a few roads where you don't have to have wine and you can get to eight and say everything. You can also refer to Commissioners, who you call Commissioners or third-class officials of the European Union, but that does not help. In the end, this will not help us, and in the near future it will cause us additional damage, 200 million euros, perhaps even more. There seems to be some spark, some spark and some brief contact between Slovenia and the European Commission. It's obviously something that doesn't work in communication. And, of course, such discussions as we are hearing today will not contribute to this. They will not contribute to overcoming this short contact. It is necessary to act effectively, prudently, I think, also with respect to the institutions that are our institutions, that is also to say the European Commission. The vignette system was introduced just before the elections. He liked it, because he offered very cheap offers to our drivers, all of us the opportunity to ride on Slovenian highways so unobstructed, uninterrupted and cheap. The fact is, we're driving cheap. But the inventors of this system knew exactly how short the legs of such a loving system were and that sooner or later all the accounts that would come afterwards would have to be settled. And that's exactly what happened. One account was specifically funded, a lack of resources for further development or even a maintenance of the entire Darsa network, and one was a political problem. The political problem has been the intervention of the European Commission because it has detected some discrimination towards those passing through, but actually less use our road network and are forced to pay, just like everyone else, as well as those who travel in a very convenient way almost every week, at least every week from Kopra to Ljubljana, or from Montenegro to Ljubljana and so on. The fact is, some of the beautiful mistakes of this system had to be corrected. And what the government is doing right now is trying to fix what else to fix. We do not have an ideal system, and I also expect that this is just the beginning of certain adjustments to reality, which will actually lead to a system comparable to the best vignette system in Europe. In doing so, I would also add the remarks made by a member of our party, Peter Česnik, who is a staunch advocate of the system they know in America, Australia, Canada and other Anglo-Saxon countries, where tolling is the most burdensome of freight transport, in particular transitional freight traffic based on tonnage and kilometres. In short, if we can better cash this dimension and Slovenia, I hope that we do not move, we do not have roads alone and exclusively for us, for our carriers and for our citizens. We know that Slovenia is on the famous fifth corridor and that this transit of Slovenia is actually part of the transitivity of these European veins. We have to deal with this and we must try to make the most of it, based on our interests. And we can actually do this with a more efficient toll system for freight transport, which is the most burdensome of our roads and the unloading of passenger or individual traffic. The second side of the medal is also what is happening at local level. Recently, the president of the city committee of Zares presented a very concrete initiative to Minister Patrick Vlačič to exclude certain segments of fast roads and roads in some places from compulsory tolling or from the vinjet system. In particular, it is a segment from Škofij to Kopra, which is used not only by foreigners, but also by our local population, which is now, of course, not to pay the vignette, reuse the old road and increase safety problems on them. Recently, there was also a tragic accident in Škofija partly as a result of the reoccurring of individual drivers along the old road, passing the kindergarten in the very centre of Škofij. This is what's going on, go to Kopra and you'll see what's going on in there with traffic. How much traffic on local roads is again due to an attempt to avoid vinjets. Why people, ours and foreigners, try to avoid vigil because vignettes allow them to use a fast road about 10 kilometers from Skofij to Kopra, then it's over, then it's a deadlock, then it's a disaster. Meanwhile, and it is necessary to say this when we talk about the prices of other countries, I travel every week to Goriška hill and for the journey to Goriška hill I choose the Italian route because it is shorter and because it allows me to use the highway free of charge from Škofij, Tržič, to Lisert, to the start of the highway and then turn, of course, after Doberdobski Kras, and in 10 minutes I am in Gorica and pay nothing, colleague Tanko, I do not pay the euro. Therefore, it is justified to require that no tolar should be paid for those 10 square kilometres that end up in traffic jams in Koper. So, I repeat here, also on behalf of Zares, Barbara Vernik and other local residents in Cyprus, I once again transmit this message and hope that we will subsequently find the right solutions for these local problems, which Minister Vlačič knows well, because we come from the same territory and area. But I repeat, this system that we are now introducing is actually necessary, there was no other way. We will pay 95 euros for the annual vignette, for us, for the average driver, it is still cheap. The fact that we are introducing short-term vignettes is not only a favour to the European Commission, but a somewhat fairer distribution of this price and costs, although we could still improve this system and bring it closer to the concept of justice for all. But the fact is, somewhere has to be started. What we now have on the table is more real, if not better and more beautiful, at least more real than the previous system, which has caused major holes, inconvenient in the European Union and although we are building, and I agree - we are building roads and, unlike many other European countries, Slovenia has in fact been able to build a network of roads and fast roads and highways that it can envy in Europe. In fact. I lived in Spain for a while, and I know how much was being built there, but only at the expense of European money. In doing so, Slovenia has proven a greater confidence, it has built enormously, but we cannot move from here on out. From here on out, we still need a European system of financing large infrastructures because we have become part of this fifth corridor. If we want to manage it and want to develop it in a way that works for us, we cannot do so in an autocratic way. There's been a lot of calls to the autarca today. And we are, and Europe is, these are foreigners. Excuse me, have we forgotten that since 2004 we have belonged to the European Union?Oh, my God! We keep forgetting that. We are here listening to autocratic discourses, which, of course, lead nowhere, leading only to a new "conflict" of relations with the European Commission, with the European Union, we will remain alone. I don't know, I don't understand now what our strategy is inside the European Union. And if we want to be part of this large system called the European Union, which connects, it is mutually beneficial that contacts and trade be easier, from Slovenia to Spain, from Slovenia to Poland. We have this privileged position - in the middle of Europe, in contact with the Mediterranean, at the intersection of different axes. We also need to make wise and rational use of this. Well, once again, I will not support the amendment. I will support - not with great enthusiasm - the law, however, is a step towards correcting some mistakes that are not only beautiful and I expect from the Ministry and the Minister that our approach to transport policy and road policy will continue to improve. My support, of course, is conditional. Once again, I stress that we have taken some initiatives and we also expect positive feedback. Once again, we call on all our colleagues to stick to some of the frameworks of proper debate and also to the right attitude towards the European Union, because we are part of the European Union. Don't forget that and keep shouting enthusiastically on behalf of some out-of-date autarchy that won't help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Come on, let's do it again, because it's a master's exercise. The fact is that the former Government of the Republic of Slovenia informed the European Commissioner for Transport on 6 May that it would introduce a vignette regime, bearing in mind that this is the so-called Swiss model which Austria had tried to introduce years ago, which this time was in a very similar position as our country. The fact is that our government and our minister have a certain way of communicating with the European government and the European Commissioner, and that this protocol exists and that all dispatches and all conversations are also, after all, activated in some way. It's not just playing with some beings and some innuendo, how and how someone communicates. Things are protocol, they're just things of an official nature. The fact is also that the decision at the time, the right decision of the former government at the time to introduce the vignette tolling method, was the original sin for all the current acts and for all the current ceasefires and for all the further steps of the Slovenian government. The fact is that this temporary measure, like all temporary measures, has a lot of consequences for staying too long and gaining the character of a somewhat long interim measure that can and may last. For my understanding, this was then a very welcome action by the Government, which has had the consequences that we feel today, and we will certainly discuss and talk about it. At that time, promises were so sweet that they found it hard to resist. I must admit that I, like Silva Montenegro and not as a Member, can say that I benefited from this measure of the then government and that I still have it. But the measure must be seen in its entirety, with all possible consequences and all possible advantages and weaknesses. I can tell that it was that promise, it was said that the government would certainly switch to electronic tolls in two years, even tempting for some. And that if we look at it in the long term, it must have been kind of illusional and kind of too optimistic that we're going to go to electronic tolling in two years, given that we know how long the trial time and testing and so on is going to take. This sweet promise has led many astray, but now we must move on. Of course, the flat-rate way is not a just system and it will never be, and always will be, those who will do worse and those who will do better. But tell me if there's any fair system, because there's been so much talk about how righteous he is and how unfair he is. I can say that this one was just for me because I speak for myself. Certainly nature is the one, this is the true Slovenian nature was perhaps happy and pleased with this measure, because it was and will be on the air and actually this measure was environmentally friendly and no one can deny it, but we actually have to keep working and go our way and optimize as much as possible, but not just go back and see how and what. Who's gonna like us? In the end, the bill always runs out, someone has to pay, someone more, someone less. About whether we will like Europe or we will like Europe and what it will tell us. We have to follow one strategy. These strategies are certainly written down and Minister Wlačič tries to follow these strategies as much as possible, but it is not easy, it is always one dialogue, it is always one communication, once it gives way, another so it is not easy. And finally, I believe that some people believe in a lot of things, but that Mr Rob was so clearly visible before 1990, when the toll station in Vodice was set up when he was a high school boy that he could have predicted it at the time, and I really don't believe that. No one's going to convince me of that. And among other things, if I tell you, like, for a lot of people, this system is unfair, one of the Ljubljana women who came to my office said, "Why do we have to pay the vignettes on our territory?" You know what? This is also a faster mode of transport, so, you know, each side has a nicer and worse or an ugly side of the medal. I will not support this amendment. I admit that my marriage isn't my thing, but I'm voting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Damian Perne has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted, once again. I have to say that when the vines were introduced, of course, I was thrilled, like most Slovenians. Great, I said, but now we're gonna shit. Because at the end of the day, I was mentioned at this Hornish end, not by name, but the last time we had this debate. At the end of Gorenje we paid according to the old system, which I say was not good, much more per kilometer than anywhere else in Slovenia, because of this open system that was. But no one's saying that the old system was good. However, some of the moves were made, which were very attractive, great, and most people liked very much, but they were said to be too little thought. No real study or studies were made where they knew how to do it and what to do with the economy of work, and they advised a much higher price to cover the issue. So the vignettes were introduced for a much lower price, which would even allow normal investment in these roads, normal road repairs and more. In short, this is where the mistake was made. And one of my speakers said earlier that the conclusion of today's debate could only be one, namely that this introduction was correct. There can always be more conclusions. Always. Whatever's said and whatever's said. But the fact that the introduction was purely correct is not true. This law now, so the amendment of this law, is indeed a fireman's execution of something, as we have done quite a few fire-fighting things this year. This only corrects the worst mistakes so that the thing can function as much as it can. And to talk about it, the easiest thing to do is juggle numbers and percentages because 90% of people who watch it on TV don't even do the math afterwards. To talk about 73% of irritation is nonsense. I personally gave a year after the old road and toll system up to EUR 1000 per year for those tolls when I drove up and down. And then this was reduced to the price of vinyl - 55 euros. And now that goes up to 95. It is said that the price that someone will pay for an annual vignette will still be much lower than they would pay for the old system, and no one says that the old system was good. We know that there was a proposal for a new, fair toll system in the free traffic flow, that it was also presented in the Government, and this option was rejected, then rejected, and this dual tolling method was introduced, which brought all its problems, we have already talked about. I think we need to be honest here and tell you exactly what the situation is. And to talk about how unfair it is now, but before it was fair, it's not true. There was no fair tolling with the vignette system, not because it was great for me because I was a highway user, someone who used the highway once, twice or three times a year, but very, very expensive to pay for it. And let's leave it as previously said, because it can be driven on alternative roads. Foreignly, if we compare ourselves with them, they actually pay tolls only for highways. Along with those highways, there are others who drive a fairly fast freight road. With us, this regime also falls on bonds and bankrolls. There's a lot of people who'd drive down local roads and they'd have to cross the curb, and if a cop gets caught there, I'm sorry, they'll pay the fine. So much for this justice. It was a little funny to me that debate about how we should resist this European Commissioner appointed in all sorts of ways. This reminds me so much of how kids in the class "fuck" Mihca because he got a flower because he didn't do his homework, and then they tell him what this teacher has to do. Sorry, we got our homework. When the vinjets were introduced, it was clear and loud that a short version of the vinjet would also be introduced. It was promised if you wanted. And we didn't keep these promises and they warned us about it, and of course now we can re-smooch back the way you want and give it to Switzerland and everything else, only Switzerland is not in the European Community after all, and we know why it can, because it has such basics, financials, etc. Let's drop it. It's not a matter of debate. In short, I don't think this innovation is ideal, but it saves a lot of things that need to be solved. And I can't support the things that you're proposing as supplements, because this novelty would lose everything that it's trying to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u63	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have talked a great deal with the European Commissioner on the subject of vineyards, not with what is now the Commissioner, but with the previous Commissioner, with whom we have worked very well throughout our Presidency and had a very respectful relationship and, of course, I agree that a respectful relationship is the basis of true communication towards the European Commission. However, there has been a change in the European Commission's attitude towards our vignette system. You are well aware that Commissioner Barrot said in our informal meeting of transport ministers in Brdo that this system is acceptable to him as a temporary solution. That's what he said publicly and you could read it in all the media. Just before the end of our presidency, the Commissioner was replaced because there had been a change of government in Italy and Frattini then went to the Foreign Minister and then there was a change of source, so that Barrot became one other Commissioner of Taiwan and the Transport Commissioner. And the position now represented by Mr Tajani is, in my opinion, questionable. I don't know if the Commissioner can tell what duration of the vineyards Slovenia must introduce and at what price. I think that these powers, but we may not yet know how respectful of the Commissioner, simply do not have. This is the jurisdiction of our country and we will decide what kind of guilt it will be. However, I would like to respond to a few other questions that have been shown here in such a flat-rate manner. It was said that the introduction of vinjets significantly deteriorated traffic safety. This can be said by someone who does not know what happened before, or who forgets what happened before. Remember, during those pre-election moves, we also changed the Road Safety Act. In this law, by the way, it does not speak as a pre-election move, and then the entire opposition of that time was against this law. Why am I talking about this marriage? Because the combination of this law and the introduction of vignettes brought the result that we have achieved, as far as the number of dead on Slovenian roads is concerned, and this is minus 80 or 81, 82. I'm talking about 2007/2008. We went down to 1965 by the number of victims. And I'm not going to say what the density of traffic was then and what the density of traffic is now. By the way, traffic on motorways increased on average by 10% to 40%, at toll stations Krtina by 150%, and Thorovo by 170%. We have achieved the goal we wanted to achieve, that the Slovenians will use this highway and that we will get them off parallel roads. These results are verifiable. 80 dead less on the roads last year. And if I follow the data correctly, maybe the minister will confirm it, even this year, even though the number has been growing a little bit lately, but we also have a total number lower this year than it was last year, please correct me if it does not. Several times it was said that we would raise significantly less money than we had collected before. I'd like the numbers. Once again, 210 million euros were raised in 2007, 248 million of which were vehicles 118 in 2007 and 140 in 2008. And this year, I said that by last week, 815.000 years old and 450,000 six-year-old vignettes were sold, amounting to 60 million. And as for the study that was mentioned, if there were no calculations and we didn't have any calculations, that we were just beginning to decide what kind of system we're going to put in place, we'd be doing a little bit of recalculating this moderately optimistic sales based on the data we have. Last year we sold 2,376,000 semi-annual vignettes. This year 800,000 annuals were sold. This means that these annual vignettes were probably purchased by Slovenians, and these 800,000 Slovenians also purchased semi-annual vignettes last year. The difference is probably foreigners. And if we consider this difference, it's a million and a half vignettes purchased by foreigners last year. Since this new option also takes into account 400,000 monthly, it is good to subtract from this million and a half of these 400,000 vineyards and get a million 100,000 vineyards. In this case, only 800 are foreseen. It is important to know, however, that we have probably introduced seven days in order for those who will go to Croatia to buy these. This means that it would be right to take these two wines into account here. Not one, not one. We've taken less than one into account. If we have 800, we figured out that there's a million left. This means that at least two should be multiplied, and two million vineyards would be given, and then the final number would not be 83 million, but around 100 million. And these are the numbers that we've reached, that we have, and on the basis of which we can very precisely calculate at least roughly how the matter is going to move. And by the way, Mr. Perne, we've never promised shorter vignettes. I would also say that if we really introduced another way for Primorska, toll treatment, but that would be discriminatory for everyone else in Slovenia. Maybe that's the information. In the UMAR study, the price was 40 times more expensive than it was last year when we printed the vineyards. I'm talking about the production price of wine.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I find that something doesn't work on traffic and it doesn't work. If I look at the last two documents we received in the National Assembly, this is the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways and the guarantee law, I can only find that the Government has adopted something that, after one month of consideration, has withdrawn from the process and submitted new documents. It is said that matters at the Ministry of Transport do not take place in a coordinated manner. Laws were removed from the procedure, which should not have been in accordance with the rules of procedure, since the process should continue and should have been rejected if you wanted to, the National Assembly or the Transport Committee and later the National Assembly. So much for how this work is done at the Ministry of Transport. I have to say, I don't agree with the blames being teased. In fact, one who proposes a change in prices of the wine system, with so much irritation, and at the same time comes here to say that about 10% of the revenue due to this change will probably have to be asked for health. Because I don't know anyone who would go anywhere to review the existing system deliberately in order to get less in the end. I don't know that. If we really want this vignette system, which you say is unfair, to be upgraded, then it should be upgraded to give at least comparable or at least the same results so that the conditions they prescribe are met. Thus, this system, which you claim to be unjust, works only more unjustly. We're just moving it even more in the direction it doesn't, if I quote you or use your statements, "no logic." And due to the introduction of the vignette system, probably there will be no less crowding or upgrading of the system in the Scofia. As this vigil system is so irritable, no one wonders how many vehicles will disappear from the highway system again and move on state roads. This is one of the basic data. The wine system was introduced primarily to increase the use of motorways and to make matters more rational and to eliminate the permanent fixed closures we had installed on motorways. That was the point. When we removed the toll stations, we achieved that these permanent roadblocks had been lifted. There were always miles of columns there, and there were some pretty bad accidents. And all those who advocate this vignette system with this magnitude, this change in the vignette system, in fact, you create the conditions for this system to get more and more banal. And I firmly believe that this change in the vignette system is also closely linked to the state administration law because they transfer competences over certain segments of telecommunications from one source to another. And in fact, in this country, this orange chill began to reign. All of this, because it is of interest to someone, is transferred in one way or another to that appropriate jurisdiction. I think all those who want the state to operate rationally, to act rationally, that we should prevent such excesses. I hope that this amendment, which has been tabled by two members of the Social Democrats, will be adopted. That telecommunications will remain where they are, that the Minister of Economy will not have only mines and that there will be some way of preserving what is expected or remaining where he is. Certainly, however, the finding made at the Social Democrats Congress, which was made by one of the unelected vice-presidents, that there was no longer a profession there, is true. Because when you propose a solution, you are consciously proposing a solution that brings worse results, talks mainly about the profession, talks mainly about whether it is a special or exclusive political decision, which is made only to bring about a costly supplier, some other form of payment for the use of tolls on motorways. This is just a basic concept, a fundamental goal. All those who are just talking about not somehow understanding this with us will have to find very good arguments to justify it and explain it. The slogan that you had for Slovenia to be able to lead better is, with this and similar projects that you have actually carried out in this mandate, that we have developed in practice Slovenia more expensive or you are running more expensive, that is all the point of these measures in the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u67	Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In this debate, I have heard some arguments which, for the most part, are flawed or constitute half-truths. And if we say another half-truth, we find that this argument doesn't hold or hold the other way around. I've heard about the ecologicality of this system. They taught us that things need to be seen in a multifaceted way, such as in the short, medium and long term. In the short term, this system is more ecological, because the system is more flowful, less inhibitions or less accelerations, less waiting. In the long run, however, this system is by no means more ecological. On the contrary. It goes against what are European and global trends in the issue of pollution. And that's the polluter pays principle. The fact is, whether we support the vignette system or not, that the vignette system is not as effective in principle as the polluter pays. In fact, it is cheaper to drive and is more disincentived by the use of public transport. Today, the railway map has become relatively more expensive because of this. Can I discuss it? Thank you very much. You can wait here and listen! Since Mr. Verlich is not interested, I will continue with the other associates. The railway map is today, and I will say this relevantly, given that Mr Verlic has dealt with this, it is relatively more expensive, for example, from Kopra to Ljubljana, than it was before. The system therefore further stimulated the use of public transport and encouraged the use of passenger transport, which we know is the one most polluting. So it is not true that the system is eco-efficient. In the long run, the system is poor from an ecological point of view. Of course, there is the hope that, technically, it will be possible to establish free movement tariffs as soon as possible and that this argument will then fall. But when we make an argument, we say it in full, not just half-truth. And I remember, half the truth is a lie. I heard that the daily movement of vehicles increased by 12,000 units on the upper leg and that the movement of vehicles on state roads decreased by 12,000 units. Don't hold it. It's not that simple math. The absolute sum of the units of vehicles using the roads on this leg has increased. 12,000 less on the highway does not mean, unfortunately, 12,000 less on state roads. In what confusion we came with this debate, he showed a proposal that came about half an hour ago by the SDS bench to introduce tunnels, i.e. to pay tolls for tunnels on Slovenian highways. Well, this actually shows what is the vision of those who are proposing the amendment today with regard to the Slovenian toll system. To bring in the tunnels!? Please! Besides the fact that the system is bad because it will stop traffic again, it is also extremely unfair. Those who will drive from Kozina to Koper will have to pay twice, but those who will be from Maribor to Mursko Sobota will not have to pay the tunnel. Those who will drive from Celje to Maribor will pay, those who will drive from Celje to Ljubljana will pay, and those who will drive from Kranj to Ljubljana will not. I wonder if the amendment's proposer has even found out what tolling system he wants. If he's offering tunnels, then I wonder if he's actually figured out what he wants. Or there is a discrepancy between the motions for an amendment. Another half-truth is that the tolls will be more expensive. And that's half-baked. Roads, so the vignettes will be more expensive, holding, as far as the annual ones are concerned, but we will have cheaper short-term vignettes, which will be cheaper than the current short-term vignettes. It will cost 15, not more than 35 euros. So it is not true that the vignettes will be more expensive for those who use more highways, but still much cheaper than the previous toll system, but will be significantly cheaper for those who use less highways. And please, when we discuss it, let's not just think about a million 700,000 citizens and citizens of this country, but about two million people, that is, those 300,000 people who don't use highways or almost don't use highways that pay a lot more today than they will pay when this novel law is passed. I ask you to acknowledge what is good and what is bad when further arguments are made, if we give the arguments. If we continue with the half-truths and the polarizations, we will have no debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u69	Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good day to you all. Sometimes it's really better old than bad new, so I support the amendment tabled by our Group of Members. More expensive annual vignettes for 73%, higher excise fees, today we will open doors for new or reprogrammed old tycoon credits, the abolition of notary towns in the country, and after all we can really ask ourselves whether this coalition really leads this country better than my colleague Tanko said. No, he leads this country more expensively, significantly more expensive. Brussels has given us a nice lesson around vinjet, right or wrong, of course we do not all agree on each other. Of course, it is interesting that we agreed to such a dictatorship, that we capitulated relatively quickly. We have listened to foreigners, but in some ways we do not listen to the locals, the Slovenes, especially those who have limited access to highways. Look, we from Koroška need 70 kilometers to the first freeway. Otherwise, we have a total of 15 kilometers to neighbouring Austria, and we are on the highway and can ride all over Europe. The same applies to the inhabitants of Ribnica, Kočevja. And here we are in an unequal position. Someone who comes to Ljubljana to Parliament from Murska Sobota is driving 150 kilometers along the highway. I have to drive to the first highway in Arja village 70 kilometers after August and then nice 40, 50 kilometers to Ljubljana. But we both pay the same price for Winniet. That's discrimination, too. Not even the old tolling that was in effect another year, two years ago, nor is this system of vignette fair. Not one and not the other. What has been said many times today would be fair satellite tolling, that is, each pays by a mile. Unfortunately, we have not heard when we can wait, if we wait at all, for this system that will be just for all citizens. Therefore, Minister Patrick Vlačič, I invite you to try to edit the third development axis as soon as possible without discussing the third development axis to bury the first shovel there somewhere in 2017 or 2018. Given that you are well aware of the roads in Koroška, because you have also spent your youth in Mizica, it would be good to look at the current position from this side of your salary at this end of Koroška. When the third development axis is built, Koroška will open up completely differently to the world and towards the centre of Ljubljana. It will be closer to Koroška Ljubljani, and you will look more easily at this end, which will make it possible to develop more quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u71	Mr. Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I had not previously reiterated to the Minister when he mentioned that the Director of the Directorate in the European Commission was deciding on the allocation of funds. Article 41 of the Official Journal of the European Union, where the Regulation is, states that the Commission shall evaluate the project and the Commission shall take a decision and not an official. The debate also heard that we do not have a respectful attitude towards the Commission. That's how it was supposed to be. I don't think that's what this is about. We know what the commission is doing, and we know what officials are doing. I don't think the term "officer" is bad. He's never been said like that. But all we talked about all the time was being firm with the commission. If the Minister of Agriculture has filed a complaint against the Commission, as we read today, for a million and a half euros of the high penalty imposed by the Commission on appeal, I think we could also file for the lack of the 200 million euro penalty. Regarding everything else that's been said, I think the amendment is still in place. Slovenians, who are often users, will pay more, more expensive, there is virtually no difference for foreigners. And that's a fact. But I can't understand the logic of the objection, as I have heard from some of the coalition Members, that they can't really understand that they should use motorways anymore and pay less. Then why were we building highways?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u73	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say, as an introduction, that my position is not different from that of the DeSUS Group, I support the proposal for amendments. However, it seems important to me to emphasise that any difference could only be made in the sense that even now the highest prices of vignettes for those who use roads most often are not too high. If it were up to me, these prices would be higher. In the meantime, the question was asked why to change what had proved to be good. I don't want to change what turned out to be good. For good it has proved to be, if, of course, this is a consequence, probably not a direct causal link - fewer accidents and fewer fatalities of these accidents. It's a good thing that the big columns have been reduced in front of the toll stations, and we're not stopping it here either. There is nothing to suggest that anyone would advocate for lower traffic safety and that the columns would be longer. And neither does anyone advocate that what was good would increase redundancies if they were restricted by the law last year. But it is true that in that last year's law, which we believe was quite good, there were some weaknesses that I did not support last year and I would like to point out this year. Let me remind you that last year I used a sentence about these vignettes that said that when the government falls, they have to go to the correctional people, the people. And that's what's happening to us now. Since that proposal was bad in many last year, we are now also correcting this by paying different and higher tolls. Worse still, in my judgment, is that we do not build motorways or acquire funds from the European Union than we would have liked and expected. The bill that is now proposed is, in my opinion, good and needs to be supported. I don't support the amendments, because if these amendments were to be supported, it would be the same as if the law were to be removed from the ground. In other words, it would not have been and would not have been anything to discuss or would have stayed with the elderly. In the case of the old, however, there were some shortcomings that can be listed as such. The first major drawback, mentioned earlier today, has been solidarity with those with lower revenues who drive less along highways, with those who drive more, and who pay for our rides. Another problem has already been mentioned, even today, that what we have put in place is in direct contradiction to the fundamental environmental principles that speak of greater polarity, greater burden also means higher costs. It wasn't like that with us. So those who charged more, which drove more, which caused more emissions and so on, had a relatively lower price for an annual vignette, especially if compared with what we should compare to - the costs we had before. And they were dramatically, and I don't know why, even in a socially unsustainable way, they changed. That's a few reasons why the amendments that are now on the table are probably unable to get our support. I am absolutely not in favour of them, and I am aware that we are now on what we announced last year, and also Dr. Fräulein announced this, "if this is not sustainable, what I have calculated, we will correct." So now we're in the correction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! With the collection of tolls in Slovenia, we really have no luck. This is discriminatory measures throughout the history of toll charging. The fair and therefore the relatively expensive tolls were only on the closed sea side of the highway cross. Everywhere else, there were a number of holes where drivers could avoid paying tolls. There's nothing different about vinjets. The fact is that the price of the annual vignette determined by the government of Janez Janša was a populist pre-election move of the then coalition. In the case of the wine system, this is a flat-rate payment, stressing that any flat-rate payment is unfair to occasional users. A fair system will only be introduced with an electronic toll system where the toll will actually be paid by each user. With the change in passenger tolling, according to the introduction of vignettes, the revenues from this title have decreased from 150 million euros to 80 million euros, I repeat, from 150 million euros to 80 million euros. But it's not just the vines. In the period leading up to the national elections, it was a whole system of legislative changes, which was fully premeditated in the second part of the Government's mandate, Janez Janša. Let's see. The budget has lost as much as EUR 468 million to the numerous tax advantages of the previous government at the annual level. Let me list some of these laws, such as the amended Income Act, the more favourable law on corporate income tax, the abolition of wage taxes and so on. The current Ministry of Finance has also calculated that Janša’s pre-election candy, as we have told them popularly, has caused an additional €300 million of budget expenditure. Let me list some of them, as I mentioned earlier: free student nutrition, free kindergarten for another child, paid reform of Minister Gregor Virant, pension increase by 8% and so on. The budget deficit was about 3% before the government of Borut Pahor performed. To avoid falling into other areas, let's say the country's external debt, which increased to almost €40 billion during the previous government. Janša's government has significantly deteriorated the sustainability of public finances. For example, Dars, the Company of the Republic of Slovenia for the Construction of Motorways, was already in charge of EUR 3.77 billion at the end of September 2008. In 2007, €234 million was raised from EU resources less than planned and could be absorbed. Even at the time of the previous government, it was comparable, I speak in a comparable way with other EU countries, very little foreign direct investment in our country. A lot of money has also been lost in the non-transparent sale of state shares in Mercator. If we sum all this up and add up to the great economic crisis that took place at the start of this new government, then we can see that the previous government, Janez Janša's government, has left a catastrophic economic balance: only because of the change in the wine system from €150 million to €80 million. However, it is not only highways that are important for the inhabitants of our country, but also state roads and local roads. It is therefore appropriate to invest a little more energy in the reconstruction of state road infrastructure. I'm not going to talk about local roads here because we're in the National Assembly. I think we urgently need a national programme to build state highways. Since we would have appealed to the Government, the Finance Minister, the Minister of Development, the Minister of Transport, just prior to the consideration of the second balance for 2009 to maintain development-oriented investments in the State budget, which are certainly investments in the state, road and highway networks, because these investments in infrastructure can also lead us out of the crisis, because our economy needs investments and investments in infrastructure are certainly those development investments that can mitigate the crisis of our economy. I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would like this system to become operational as soon as possible, to begin to draw on those European funds that have now been stopped for individual sections of the motorway cross, and to build our road network on such an accelerated basis. However, there will be a transitional period when we actually get to that system that will be fair to all users, which will probably be even more expensive, because those who drive more on highways will also pay more by electronic tolls, not as today when payments are made on flat rates, lump sums that are essentially unfair to all people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. There's only one thing I'd like to say very clearly. The fact that less money is collected through the new system is misleading and not true because the whole system needs to be looked at together: trucks and passenger vehicles. And that's direct deception. We've calculated the entire system so that no less money will be collected. I said that with numbers before, and I don't think you need to do that again. There's another thing I'd like to tell you. About 230 million a year gathers with tolls. I could leave the price the way you gave it at the annual level, and I proposed to the Government and the National Assembly, but in 2013 annuites would, if we stopped building motorways today, exceed this amount. This is, of course, beyond the mandate of this government, however. The 2013 annuites, if we stop building motorways today, would amount to 247 million, 2014 - 260 million, 2015 - 280 million, 2016 - 282 million, etc. To date, we have spent 4 billion and a half in the construction of motorways, in the completion of motorway programmes, in the additional highway programmes, we need 5 billion more resources for development axes. Probably a lot more to add to why we try to keep the system sustainable, with these numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Check-in is on. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. Mr. Minister with the co-workers! In the government's paper you sent, it actually says something other than what you just demented. It says here: "Despite the selected scenario, it is necessary to take into account the fact that the total gross revenue from vinyl, tolling with the introduction of vineyards for a shorter period, will be reduced according to the current situation. According to an optimistic scenario, the reduction in 2009 would be between €8 million and around €20 million." Minister, on this basis, there has been a lot of debate today. And since you have time, I've highlighted it solely because maybe someone wrote something in the material, and they didn't warn you about it, so you can explain it. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If we have done something fair for these citizens and citizens, then, among other things, we have done good with the introduction of these vineyards. It's not fair that some of them are from Domal to Vrhnika and here around the vehicle, I don't know, a quarter of a million people in this country, totally free, really totally free. The ones from Haloz and the Slovenian Mountains, of course, already paid tolls in Slovenska Bistrica and then here in Ljubljana. We stopped in between twice or three times and paid this toll. To talk about a fair tolling system for passenger cars, I hope that those of you talking about it are talking about freight traffic, that is, a kilometer satellite toll. As far as freight traffic is concerned, I agree. As far as personal traffic is concerned, I disagree. Even those of our workers who earn 450 euros in Slovenian Gorica pay 20% of taxes on every issue. And even with this tax, with their taxes, the Ljubljana bypass was built, highways were built, etc. And because they're far away from this "cursed" center, that I can't say otherwise, because it's repeating this centralisation again, they're in a significantly worse position. The introduction of this weekly and monthly vignette doesn't bother me. Let them be. But you know what bothers me? It bothers me, however, that you have raised such a drastic amount of vignette annually, at the expense of these citizens and citizens. That's why it's completely unacceptable to me. Moreover, have you calculated by introducing monthly and weekly vignettes how many administrations, how much red tape, how much more and how much less control, so that we will experience transparent checks on highways because of how many times the motorways will be closed down to guide us through the traffic to control, or do drivers have weekly vignettes, monthly vignettes and so on? For these six-year and year-olds, I can see that they are looking from a distance and can be very easily and quickly detected and not stopped by traffic. Before the elections you Social Democrats said "we know better to lead, this country is better to lead". But please, you knew what we've done, what we've done for the citizens, and you didn't say anything at the time, that you're going to ruin all of this, that you're going to give students scholarships, scholarship money, that you're going to raise the prices for the vignettes, that they're going to close jobs. You didn't say any of that. Pensioners spoke of 1,000 euros in pension. You didn't say you'd pick them up or lower them to a minimum. Social Democrats, what you already have in your title, in fact, seems to me like you're becoming more social democrats of encouragement and less benefits for citizens and citizens, or even more socially democratic for some individuals. These individuals are very, very few. These are different Cordegas and Kramars and so on, all that's left around here. So once again, Minister, consider, the government will decide on the assessment of this annual vignette [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister with co-workers, honourable Member, honourable Members! I firmly believe that in this mandate the Government will also need to adopt some unpopular, unappealed measure, to amend some law, what we have adopted in the last election year in some way with our left hand in the National Assembly. According to my assessment, we have behaved more as we would for the next 100 years have high economic growth, high surpluses in the state budget, and that we will also be able to service all that we have adopted or put into law in the coming years. As far as the agenda item is concerned. I will not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because there is no such law. However, if we want to act as members of the National Assembly, we must do something in this area to unlock in some way the European funds that stand for us to build or modernise the highway network. I believe this is the right step in the direction. You all claimed that this vignette system was good for the Slovenes. I say he liked it, but he was good. This vinite system was bad. If we look at the sustainability of the vignette system, especially the highway system, then we see that we switched the toll system with an even worse vignette system. I've said some numbers before, I've been talking about numbers for passenger cars. Some of these numbers were summed up and you added freight traffic, where the tolls are included. If we just look at the passenger cars. According to the old toll system we collected in 2007, approximately EUR 118 million. In 2008 we are in the first half of the year with an old toll system and from 1. 7. With the new vinjet system, they did raise 140 million. But because it was a combination of both. The 2009 simulation produced results to raise some over 100 million euros in collected tolls according to the adopted vignette system. Loan payments in 2009 amount to 165 million. Over the next five years, the repayment of loans will require around EUR 285 million. It is said that the toll system is not sustainable, that money will have to be provided from the budget for the repayment of credits. What's the lineup? I say there will be less money for certain development projects. Also in the field of road transport. There won't be enough money for the developmental axes we all want. I agree with Mr Friday, the development axis is necessary. We are now in a competitively subordinate position, which is not located at the fifth and tenth motorway corridor. Who will come and invest in an area that is not adequately connected by infrastructure? What you're saying wasn't a pre-election candy or a gift, I'm saying it was. I claim it was a pre-election gift. And you're telling us what we're doing. We accept amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Roads in Pre-election Time. We have European elections ahead of us, and this action is not liked. I don't like every show. I believe that this is how people accept it, but if we want to be responsible for the public finances system, for the state budget, for the repayment of credits, then something needs to be done in this area. There was a lot of talk about the various conclusions of the National Assembly on this subject. I remember all the debates from 1992 until today. There have been many conclusions and many commitments when we will introduce, in my opinion, a fair system, this is tolling in free traffic without stopping. This system will be most fair because every user will pay as much as they will transport on the Slovenian highway system. I am sure that the Government will do its utmost not only to adopt this action plan as soon as possible but also to lead it to the end that this toll system will also be introduced in some real time. Everything depends not only on Slovenia, but also on some others. As far as the amendments are concerned, I'd like to say the following. We already had a cross on the Transport Committee with the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You saw for yourself that you filed these amendments wrongly and then you fixed it on the board. You have also tabled these amendments twice today, first to Articles 2 and 4 and then to Article 6. I would like these discussions to be as few as possible, so that the Minister and the National Assembly will be involved in transport policy. During the six months of the mandate of the new Slovenian Government, we deal with two stories that you have committed. The first is the Road Transport Act. You knew that the concession contracts would expire at the end of 2008, but nothing was done. In the first months of this new mandate, the Minister had to deal with this story, otherwise public line traffic in Slovenia would have stopped us. And another story is the law on public roads. You knew that we were going to make a bad, financially unsustainable system, and we brought it into the country irresponsiblely, and today it needs to be changed, as the Government has proposed. I myself will support amendments to the Law on Public Roads, of course, with the desire to release as soon as possible European money for the construction or maintenance of important motorway sections under the national programme on the basis of this decision. However, I would like to see the introduction as soon as possible of a free-flow toll system that will in fact be the most just for our citizens and citizens, or all users of motorways.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Check-in is on. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll support the amendment. But I'd like to remind the minister of where this idea is going to be raised less money. At 10.11 a.m., the minister said: "The fact is that the total gross revenue from the wine system will be reduced for a shorter period due to the introduction of vineyards. However, we have taken measures to neutralise this reduction, for we have raised tolls for freight vehicles by 40%." That's true, but, as I know, you could only do it by promising to the motorists. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That you'll give them back their excise duties. [[...]] This means that you will have less in both pockets because you will give one pocket to be neutralized in another. But it'll be less on excise duty. This idea is from here, because I quote you as you said. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members. The amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported. As a matter of fact, in this debate over a few hours, it is no longer surprising that we are talking about a coalition agreement, but now the SDS have just forgotten that it is an agreement, not a treaty, about which we were so pleased to be taught at the outset, about what we have and what we have not promised and so on. It is no longer worth talking about, since no matter what marriage we are considering, we listen to the same stories. However, if I go back to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads and on the Winning Story, then I must say that I can easily support this amendment because I was impressed by the scepticism of the introduction of vignettes when we adopted this law. As a resident of the municipality of Maribor, I was well aware of the concerns and problems of citizens and citizens of our city, who had a number of comments about the introduction of vineyards and on slopes, suburbs and the like, as well as about transit transport at our end. But that's over now. What was then heard as promising promises and as a contribution to a better life for all of us, and in particular for those who are driving a lot along the roads, has now proved to be an empty promise not to say anything else, because it is simply a necessity to fulfil some of the obligations that, I think, we have to fulfil if we are to provide funds from the European Union. And this is the reason why I think it's worth answering this topic, which is increasingly the domain of all those who are very careful about how the local body will react to their statements and then reward it in the next election. I rarely get involved in infrastructure discussions for this reason. But it is irresponsible for people to tell us how socially insensitive Social Democrats we are, because we warn that there is a need to ensure some financial sustainability while not saying that if we do not receive European funds, if we do not worry about development, the citizens and citizens of this country will be even more warm than they will receive an increased contribution to wine. You know, I could now list a whole bunch of stories about what was promised. But let me remind you of just one more year's story. We wrote in the RTV Act that the RTV contribution would remain unabated. The former Prime Minister of the Government promised RTV to increase the RTV contribution in the middle of last year that this would have to happen. But as a sly politician, he left the execution of this present government. And so this government awaits the realization of a number of very good moves by the previous government, which thought it would be rewarded for what it was doing. With regard to speed and slowness, I just have to say this, when inflation has proved to be a major problem for the good part of the population in our country in mid-2007, the previous government has taken one year to adopt the Law on the Draganjska Supplement to say so. This is about speed. It would be so good to have a little look at dates and what you've been doing in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u87	Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! Colleagues and colleagues. I cannot support the SDS amendment myself, because it essentially wants to eliminate efforts to change the law that is necessary, because the vignette system was attractive and certainly did not regulate things so as not to be discriminatory towards transit traffic and in some part to domestic citizens who rarely use motorways. In fact, one who goes once a year to the Prekmur Clinic or twice to Brezje or something like that will now be able to do 15 euros with a week's vignette, while he should have paid 35 euros in the previous system. The problem is also that, for example, it is not true that the system has been introduced in the sense of social action, in order for citizens to be cheap vehicles, etc., because it is also a cheap fault for those who have money to pay, more and should cover solidarity within social security in this country. For me, the vignette proved to be a savings of 1,000 euros not a year. I would have paid about 20 times less for the toll than I had previously paid in the old toll. And even now, when it costs more than 95 euros, it will still be nearly ten times cheaper for me than it used to be. The same applies to all other users in the toll system, since all those who used the motorway more or less on a permanent basis will also be in the future, irrespective of the price of wine, and will all, even for more expensive wine, be a few times cheaper on motorways, while it is necessary to establish that we cannot build motorways with social services, that we need a lot of money for the motorway programme, which must also come from the toll system, one such or another, and that it is not possible to obtain European funds with social manoeuvres in order to together provide the necessary means for the further construction of motorways. As far as the social orientation of such a measure is concerned, the true cynicism exercised and offered by the SDS, which was achieved in a period of relative prosperity in that country, is that it has frozen 43 social transfers, of which 40 are still frozen, because only some minor corrections have been made later. It is not possible to talk about socialism when it comes to cheap winery in the start, and there is no doubt that this was a pre-election manoeuvre, which also concerns studies about which were discussed. We do not know that any serious study would be done. But certainly there was a study on how to convince voters that we were right to get another term and to win the elections. That's why there's been a cheap vignette. I spoke to a number of citizens, including those with 500 euros in salaries, all expected a much more expensive vineyard when it began to talk about it. The talk was even about 150 euros, which would still mean more expensive use of motorways for most, and this is basically cheaper than before, that there will be no less money than before. Here I welcome the Minister's repeated teaching that talking about the collection of less money is one of the lies that help create a public opinion against thinking when it comes to the moves of the current government. It is true that this government does not think about electorate when it works, but thinks that solutions would be better, even more acceptable to Europe, including the area of tourism, where last year we received a minus due to those who came and left our country early, or only those in transit. Thus, we must finally accept the fact that we are trying, within this government and the ruling coalition, to fix things that need to be fixed, to improve things as much as possible, no matter what anyone thinks right now. What will ultimately be the result, and this moment doesn't matter to me. This moment is important for us to adopt the amendment of the law that was necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I see you want to discuss the amendment to Article 2. I'm opening the application. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The whole debate reminds me of someone whose milk cup fell to the ground, broke, and the milk spilled. Then I'd understand if I was angry with myself, because now he has to clean up his intestines and make another cup, but it's paradoxical that he's actually mad at another guy who's cleaning up his intestines and preparing a new cup for what he's doing. The whole debate reminds me of such a parable. Another type of polargment and half-truth that we have heard today is the argument that more money has been collected from the vinite system. That's not true. It is true that in 2008 we collected more money, but not because of the vignette system. In 2008, we collected money on the basis of two different systems; half a year on the basis of remote tolls and half a year on the basis of tolls; and not on the basis of that, after months of cheaper annual vignettes, where there are 55 euros for 12 months, but monthly more expensive semi-annual vignettes, where 35 euros for six months. And if you divide 35 divided by 6, you see that it comes more than 55 divided by 12. Thus, to claim that we have accumulated more on the basis of vinjets, is half true or half false. If we had a vignette system all year round, we'd pick up some money. There's no debate, that's what calculations are. Please, let's say things the way they are. As for the flat-rate, once again, the decision for the flat-rate was made by the previous government. And the flatline in theory is unfair. Now, with a greater choice, this lump sum changes so that it can be at least partially more just and remains unfair. So, the decision was on the previous government, it did what it did -- and who did it help? Let's just think about who's driving on the freeway. Is one who is on a minimum wage and can barely afford one car, or is he regularly using highways all over Slovenia, paying for fuel and driving up and down? Is it possible that he is using a middle and higher layer of highways and those that he is commercially using? Thus, the former government helped the middle and higher layers and those who serve on the basis of transportation along highways, not the poorer layer. Those pay more. This change, however, will allow them to pay less, making it socially fairer. I think that the rhetoric on how we can be brave and not give up on the European Union, and the creation of two halves, on the one hand, Slovenia, on the other, on the European Union, is the wrong rhetoric. We are part of this same European Union that we are talking to. And we know that there is a principle in the European Union on the free movement and prohibition of indirect discrimination. We know. Austria had to agree to the same thing, and then other countries agreed to the same thing when the vignette system was introduced. But Slovenia is doing - we would say - a Frenchman. "No! She's doing Swiss," but that's not going to happen in the European Union. And one more question. If "she's playing Swiss," why "she wasn't pretending to be Swiss" to the end? Why did the government only do it in half? We'd only have one winch, one year's worth of vignette, which would cost 45 euros. Even better, of course, for those who use highways throughout the year, but everyone else would pay more. Well, we can do it like we did in the Middle Ages, but there's someone with a gun on every bridge, and if you don't pay 5 euros, you don't go ahead. This is not progress and this is not a vision we supported when we decided to join the European Union. All the advantages we have gained by entering also represent certain responsibilities. We cannot do things on a chorus, and what is most paradoxical in all this story is that Slovenian Democratic Party President Janez Janša, then Prime Minister of the Government, himself admitted that the wine system would have to be changed. So, please, all this argument before you tell her in the National Assembly, tell Janez Janša and convince him that he made a mistake. But when you two get along, it would be good if we could talk about it here. And to talk to a coordinated conversationalist, not someone who says: you need to change the system, the other says no, and the third one would even introduce tunnels. It is necessary to reconcile and know what kind of person we are dealing with and what attitude we are dealing with. Once again, I would like to draw attention to another dimension that we simply forget through and through. We talk about motorways, we talk about passenger transport, which is by definition the most polluting and we forget about public transport. Why did the Government not, in addition to the measures imposed on the motorway, make an effort and introduce measures in the rail sector? Why, for example, didn't we introduce blame for the railroad? Everyone pays 20 euros and rides the rail as much as they want across the country. Why? Because it's a stupid suggestion. That's right. And because flatteners are always problematic and need a type and type of improvement so that they can be acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u91	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Although I have a high tolerance threshold, but since I have listened for two hours now, I still have something to say in the end because of credibility, because some statements have been made. First time. I must say that I believe more and more to the minister who has done some analysis - both the Ministry and the Government - and they have found that this system, which is now enshrined in the law, is unrestrained so that we can return the money we borrowed for the construction of the highways. Therefore, the amendment proposed to this article, if adopted, puts the law back into its original state and, if it is the basis for change, the amendment of the law was that it is bad and that it is necessary to ensure this sustainability, then it is logical that the matter should be changed. Your proposal with amendments, in no way changes or complements, but simply brings it back to the way it used to be. That's why I can't accept this amendment. But since you are discussing Ljubljana, the ring around Ljubljana, something that has discussed you, and around the money that we Ljubljanans have been privileged to do, I would just warn you. We pay two things in Ljubljana as residents of Ljubljana: we pay the toll and pay the parking lot which is in Destrinnik, as the colleague said, is probably not paying. And in Grosuplje, you don't pay for parking. And I'm going to the other end of Ljubljana, but I have to pay for the parking lot. Also take these things into account that the cost when you talk about us Ljubljanans, that we do not have and that we drove free of charge around Ljubljana. Those of you bikers will pay for the bikers in time, I think. Finally, given that there are quite a few debaters, I am particularly annoyed that the leader of the SDS Group is speaking about our congress, the SD Congress. I have a feeling for the last month as if you had a seminar or some workshop where you discussed and discussed what we wrote down at our SD congress, what we agreed and what we will do in the future. I have this feeling, and I'm going to say in a parable what it's like, and maybe it'll turn you away from repeating these things. This interpretation of our agreements and documents that we had at the convention is even more similar to one saying: When a coffee pooper tells us how black the ravens are. And that's what you've been doing for the last month, two months intensely, and in some ways I suggest you avoid it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! For the second time, I am announcing this item of the agenda, because I would like to say one more, in my opinion, the most positive side of the introduction of the wine system. Although the former minister had already spoken about it. In fact, the number of deaths on Slovenian roads has decreased significantly. I think it's about 80. I think that, for this reason, it was somehow justified to go, but whatever this system of blames is already disputed and unfair to individual segments of people - but what does this data mean? This data on the number of deaths in traffic accidents means that we have very dangerous state roads. It is said that a large transition to highways has reduced the death toll on state roads. It is said that our state roads are also because they are inadequately maintained, because for years and years they are basically just a rag and finance individual shorter sections, but they are not making major investment interventions on state roads, meaning that these roads are very dangerous for traffic. This also means that more resources should be invested in the modernisation of the state road network, from regional to other state roads, not only in the motorway cross, but also in the short run. Now, however, in my view, most of the investment in this area should be diverted to state roads. Even so, people on these roads could drive more safely than they do now. Let me mention, in 2008, only at the section between Idria and Lower Idria, where there were virtually never any serious traffic accidents, there were three fatalities. If we move forward towards the Church, this number rises to four, it is said, at 25 kilometers of state road in last year's four fatalities. That's really not good statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I can still see, Dr. Pavel Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nevertheless, I'd like to take a few minutes to tell you my position. Of course, I will not support this amendment, as I did not support the law when the vignette system was introduced. At the same time, I support this law, which has been brought into Parliament today, because it at least slightly improves the obvious illogicality, injustice, discrimination in the current vignette system. When Mr Verlic, the former Secretary of State, spoke about the old toll system, he showed desperate images, crowds and similar things. I can't help but disagree with him. That's exactly what it is, and if you want it, it's worse. The old system, electronic tolling, was inappropriate, was inappropriate in terms of volume of traffic, was inappropriate due to a double system, open and closed tolling, etc., there is no doubt about it, and there is no doubt that it was necessary to upgrade or change the system to a better electronic toll system allowing to tolling in the free traffic flow. Such a proposal was prepared by the former Darsa administration, and such a proposal was also made by the government and was rejected. So it's not true that the vignette system that was introduced was the only alternative to this outdated old system on 2.8 giga of actors. That's the first thing you need to know. The other thing is, of course, this vignette system, everyone's talking, and we've also given our position that we are counting on the Government to go with the electronic tolling system in free traffic, but of course we all know that probably the vignette system is not a transient phenomenon, that it will probably stay long if not forever. No country has ever introduced a popular vignette system and has been able to change it. Austria, too, according to my information from the competent circles, would give anything if they could turn the vignette system into tolling in free traffic and tolling in principle: pay as much as you transport. Well, of course, "no way," because this vignette system is good. It's great, it's great for me, it's great for you, because we who drive a lot on the roads, of course, pay less, and those who drive less of course pay for us. But they are not organized in drivers' clubs, they have no positions, they have no jobs, they have no influence on the media, they have no lobby in magazines, etc., and they are more or less without a word. And that, of course, is the problem. Because of this system, although I also stress that you want to go to the system in the free traffic flow - pay how much you transport - the question is whether we will ever be able to do it. Even when there is a satellite for trucks, of course we will probably not be able to do so for passenger cars, and of course also a number of other problems. Is this system discriminatory? Of course it is. First of all, he's discriminatory, just like anyone who's discriminated against him. Clearly, first of all it is discriminatory for drivers and drivers who use less highways or never or little because they have to pay more than they actually use. That is particularly clear. Above all, I would say that I would have no objection to this system, as I do not object to the fact that the other roads are paid for by this flat in registration if the motorways were equally accessible to all people - but they are not! Large pockets that go from Škofje Loka to Cerkne, Idrija, Upper Soča have no connection to the highway system. Large pockets in Koroška, then Bela krajina, Kočevsko - the so-called pockets are completely away from the highway system for more than 20, 30 minutes and they are "de-facto" de privileged, while at the same time they are even the farthest from the centres, and are even twice deprived and discriminated against. Because it is discriminatory for all those who use less motorways, it is clearly discriminatory for foreigners as well. Nothing helps us if we say that, Croat, Slovene, German pays the same toll. It doesn't help us, it's clear that we can't afford such discrimination to pay differently. But since the cross-sectional crowd of foreigners matches the cross-sectional crowd of "little use of Slovenian motorways", it is clearly a "de facto" discriminatory system, whether we recognize it or not. And let us stop deceiving ourselves with such arguments of another, for it is clear that no one will believe us unless we convince ourselves in this Chamber. But we would have borne it, however, from the point of view of all these matters, but with regard to traffic safety - this was warned. One link was pointed out, namely that each additional kilometer of built highways reduces the number of dead on Slovenian roads. And since several new motorways have been opened in the last period, of course this has also reduced mortality on Slovenian roads. This should not be attributed to the vinite regime, but to the fact that we have several kilometres of highways and that when we have more of them, this result will be even better. What worries me, colleagues and colleagues, is the financial sustainability of the wine system. I'm with the mags. I couldn't agree more about the cranes. Even with the old or significantly more expensive way of tolling, we would not be able to ensure sustainability at EUR 400 million in the long term, that is quite clear. But the fact is that we have wasted this with the fact that in 2005, 2006 we reduced the budget for the construction of motorways to a minimum and committed ourselves to the loan. And in this way we have brought the largest part of building highways to future generations. However, we added to this mistake that we have reduced our toll revenue. Twice! If we have done this before, at least this second step should not be taken. And that's the clearest thing we're going to face. To understand each other, motorways will last longer than the lifetime of one generation, and it is right that those generations who will come after us and use them will also pay. But in order for such a large share, so to speak, to bring an exclusive share to the shoulders of future generations, it is, if I use this term, unsustainable. There are numbers, there is a remarkable study, which I received with the help of an authority to access information of a public nature. And this study says that according to the 2008 plan, 201.7 million euros were collected by the vignette system, due to the combination of both systems, in 2009 - listen! - the vignette system - €55 per year, €35 per year - is expected to raise €217.5 million. So far we've picked up this system, I've got 46 million euros here and up to 1. 7. we'll pick up 9.5 more. More, about 56 million euros. We are still 160 million euros short of this figure, not to mention the 2010 issue. How could you be so fatally wrong?Oh, my God! Because it's not a study at all, it's just a simple prediction. That's why I'm warning you. This system will beat us over the head because of the injustice that is now being reduced, especially due to future costs. And this system, not the next generation, we're going to be paying this system hard in the coming years. It was actually one of the biggest mistakes. Unfortunately, you said earlier that we are only criticizing the government of Janez Janša. A lot of good was done, but if you ask me what was the biggest mistake, then I say that the introduction of the vignette system was the way it was introduced. I don't think we're gonna get rid of this anymore, even if that's what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? I guess not. There are two more amendments, both the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The first is to Article 4, which is to be deleted. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 4? I guess not. The following amendment to Article 6 of the same parliamentary group. This Article is to be deleted. Anybody want to talk? Anyone else? Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Technically, the amendment is linked to the amendment of Article 2, because if it were adopted it would also make sense to adopt the amendment to Article 6. In substance, however, it points to the approach taken by the Slovenian Democratic Party to this law. So, instead of opting for a constructive approach to finding solutions in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, she decided that she would simply face up to her own trenches, defend herself, not because of the content that had already been many arguments that showed that she did not. Many claims in the defence of this content were polargment which did not "go through" but not because of content, but because of prestige - wanted to mine the law. That's why this amendment can't go through, but it's an excellent syntax of how the opposition went after this amendment and how it looks at the question of vignette. As for the question of your child, fine, fine, but unfortunately, this child no longer thinks rationally, but emotionally. And hardly anyone dares say a word about this child, jumps in a hysterical way and, of course, every debate is then further disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am concluding the debate on the amendments. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on police, by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Madam Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u100	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! As Minister of the Interior, I have little responsibility to ensure an adequate level of security in Slovenia. The proposal for a new law on the police in front of you is being adopted by emergency procedure. And there was a lot of controversy about that. Why the emergency? Because the legacy of some former governments in the field of organisation and police recruitment is also catastrophic. The Ministry of the Interior has not had a system of human resources policy for many years. Today, Slovenia is on the very tail of European countries by the number of police and police officers per capita. According to human resources plans, there are about 400 jobs unoccupied. We only have 495 criminals in the whole country. By the way, lawyers are almost three times as many. Maribor, Postojna, Kranj are police administrations where there is a shortage of dozens of police officers. In Ljubljana, 300. Up to 200 police officers retire annually and have been transferred to the southern border only in the past. This information is worrying. People therefore rightly wonder where the police are, where they should be. As Minister of the Interior, I am responsible for improving the human resources problem. This is life-related to the security and respect of human rights, and that is for all people who are in police procedures: victims, victims, suspects. Therefore, this novel introduces the possibility of further training of border guards and then moving the best of them into the interior of the country. On the other hand, we allow the reactivation of some retired police officers for individual tasks performed today by police officers who should be on the ground. The new law before you is just the first and necessary step to resolve the situation, followed by measures that are systemic and long-term. This is a matter of change from reorganisation to rationalisation of the work of both the ministry and the police. The law is also necessary to complement it in segments that provide greater security for police officers in the performance of their duties. It was necessary to clarify certain powers, in particular in the area of seizure of illicit drugs, and to define the constitutional principle of proportionality in the exercise of coercive measures. In doing so, we have limited ourselves to the most urgent and precisely because the law is adopted following an urgent procedure, we have been particularly careful not to unduly extend police powers with it, we have only defined them more precisely, and in particular in areas that have in the past been targeted by the Ombudsman, the courts and the police themselves. In its first opinion on the amendment of the law, Parliament's legislative and legal service had certain comments, which, after further coordination and clarifications, had mostly withdrawn, she also explained. That the comments were withdrawn was consistent and I cannot say otherwise than apparently deliberately overlooked by the opposition Members who participated in the debate at the home committee. I have no doubt that we will be hearing the same argument today. With regard to the new procedure for the appointment of the Director-General of Police, this novel is undoubtedly a major qualitative leap from the existing system. First of all, it significantly increases the conditions for the occupation of an existing city. It also introduces different types of selection procedures, from public or internal competition to call. Second, the proposed amendments introduce a new guarantor body into the appointment and discharge procedure of the Director-General. The decision of the Government on choice will be linked to an independent expert committee composed of the President of the Official Council, a representative of the State Prosecutor's Council and a special external expert on the work of the security authorities, the law or the protection of human rights appointed by the President of the Republic. The proposed model strengthens the role of Slovenian constitutional democracy and, above all, the symbolic and professional authority of the Director-General of Police. Politics has a lot to do with it. And that's right. The police need an autonomously unburdened and confident leadership. It is my duty, as well as the duty of the Government in which I participate, to provide the police with a framework of action, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that he can get back on his own feet. [[...]] Not to the ministers, not to the government, but to their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The Law on Police or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act were discussed at the Committee at its 12th emergency meeting on 18 May and in its three sequels on 19, 21 and 22 May. The draft law was tabled by the Government, and it also proposed an emergency procedure, which was accepted by the College of the President of the National Assembly. I would like to point out that we had available time for six minutes for a member of the Committee, at least that was the time after the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. 6 minutes per participating member of the committee! This is also the reason why the committee has stalled, that we have done the matter in three sequels. Otherwise, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is not the only committee having problems with the decisions of the College of the President of the National Assembly. Today we witnessed this with another committee. As regards the work of the Committee in all these meetings, it must be said that we had the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, a letter from the Ministry of the Interior and were without a position of the Council of State. We have only received the position of the Council of State in the last part of our meeting, and this negative view of this bill. With the proposed amendments, according to the Minister, exactly what she has just listed before me is also recorded in the law in the same order; that is to say, by starting with the human resources issue and ending with the appointment of the Director-General. So, the same explanation was given on the committee. As far as the Legal and Legislative Service is concerned, we have received comments on Articles 2, 3, 8, 19, 22 and 35 of the Law. The members and members of the committee were in all respects divided into two parts - coalition and opposition. In most cases, I think I can also say that the vast majority of the coalition Members have expressed, as well as the opposition, considerable concerns that such an area, at least this second part, is being regulated by an urgent procedure. In short, there was no terrible support for emergency procedures by the coalition members. This was particularly opposed by opposition Members, who expressed a clear statement of considerable indignation. We spent about 1.5 hours with one amendment to Article 19, which was tabled by the coalition members, supported by the opposition and supported it. The coalition did not support that work, so later this coalition Member withdrew this article and was taken over by the opposition Member, Mr Grims. In the following words, I will say, the opposition Members objected, in particular, to Articles 8 and 13 of the Law for a fundamental reason, because, I emphasise, the opposition Members have identified and have agreed that the urgent procedure is not necessary, that we support those articles that speak about the employment and training of police officers, and that we do not have any essential comments there. We have also made it very clear that we are opposed to such a way of appointing the Director-General, who is in communist times, not today. The Coalition Members also agreed with this way of appointing the Director-General of Police. Let me further say that some Members have raised quite a few concerns about this re-establishment of the working relationship with retired police officers, and in the final stage it is necessary to say that we have adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, 16, 22, 27 and 31. These amendments were not supported by the opposition MPs. However, the text of the law as adopted by the Committee is a clear annex to this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, Secretary. Respectable present. It's nice if for a pleasant afternoon a man's report also smiles and makes him feel good. Now to the marriage. The law is certainly necessary, well thought out, legally and professionally justified, and it certainly means a great step forward, because if there is greater security for the people of Slovenia and the police, if there is more respect for human rights and greater determination of police procedures, then it is certainly good. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the amendment of the law on police, and let me start by saying that not only because the ministry is well, successfully and decisively headed by our minister, but also because we believe and are convinced that most of the substantive issues of the law require urgent changes. In particular, let me stress the substantiation of the staff force, where it is a real, real problem that is seriously threatening security tasks today and requires the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. What's our job? It is certainly our job to adopt a law, so that the police will not be bomb-throwing, there will be no assaults with a knife, and that there will be a number of public places that are meant to relax and have fun, the rest of them, but not that there will be tragic cases. The mentioned human resources malnutrition is the first reason, not the only reason, for urgent changes. However, there are certainly others for whom practice has shown that they are necessary, and they are linked. I am talking in particular about the security, optimal functioning of the police, police powers and last but not least important and unnecessary, as may be expected, the procedure for appointing or dismissing the Director-General of Police. As a result, and this has been said repeatedly by the Minister and the Secretary of State on the Committee and today, in a comprehensive, reasoned and reasoned manner, it is reasonable and understandable that all these content sets are adopted at once. It is said, in a package, and not in any particular procedure, which in some cases could otherwise be done, but then there might actually be some apparent ambiguities as to what is being done, when and why it is accepted. However, such an argument with legal and substantive grounds could also be accepted by the opposition, because when we adopt a number of laws, it is clear to us that we are not acting and that we are merely thinking and thematic. In this case, we act decisively, effectively, in the well-being of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. We want to ensure that more police officers will respond more quickly and more effectively to the call of the citizen than ever before, where it is necessary, where it dictates the security of people and property, so that they do not exceed the police's authority. Where this is necessary, when it comes to illicit drugs and substances, they will have more power to act energetically, decisively, in accordance with the law. There is also a lot of talk about the appointment of the Director-General of Police. Because this process is in sight with a new selection process, which seeks to prevent politicisation and for this purpose, and to avoid all doubts about the expertise and appropriateness of the choice, the law introduces an independent and professional three-member committee. With regard to the openness of the system, it is the establishment of a European, modern and democratic police concept, thereby moving away from a militaristic, closed concept. It must be realized that the police are not and must not be an army. That's why it's got to be different for the police. Also with regard to the change in police powers and the optimal and effective functioning of the police, the objective has always been one and simple: the safety of citizens and citizens. With powers, we do not bring enlargement, but on the contrary, even limitations. A number of measures have been proposed to protect human rights in police procedures, as well as a number of measures to protect police officers, their neighbours and all those involved in the process against threats by perpetrators of crime and could also be listed. We are not in favour of any police state at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. It is only about improving the functioning of the police, it is not about politicisation, but about modernising and democratising the police, and that is why we will support good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. It will support it because it is convinced that its content is properly directed, that we have examined it thoroughly in the home labour body and that, with the very constructive and critical cooperation of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is shown in this part only to praise, there have been indisputably good decisions. In doing so, we have also been critical of the procedure in the Group of Social Democrats, but no more so than other urgent and shorter procedures, which the Government sends mainly to the procedure of the National Assembly. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that it is worth seriously considering because in some recent cases we have found that the opposition has found this fact, not the content and issue of content, the abuse or the use of procedures to make it difficult to discuss without need, not the substantive issues, but the repetition of the same views and the same issues, which reduces the quality of the work of the National Assembly. With regard to the content, the proposals presented by the Minister today are well founded. It highlighted the essential content we want to achieve: this is greater security of citizens, people and property; this is also a greater security of police officers in carrying out their tasks: it is an extension of the possibility to resolve some of the human resources dilemmas and, above all, the human resources problems that are in the police on operational work by allowing part of the police officers from the Schengen border to be able to perform operational work with additional training, and in particular by allowing part of the police who are younger and still are still retired to come back as an instructor - mainly I am simplifying, but in the sense of non-operational work - so that young police officers can undertake operational tasks. Let me say that our belief in one of the fundamental issues is that it is a good way to propose the election and discharge of the Director-General of Police, a proposal prepared by the Ministry and Government. That there are ingenuity claims that it wants to go back to any old system - just the opposite. So far, there have always been strong criticism that there is too much influence of ministers on staffing, on the functions to be proposed by the Government or by the relevant minister. Here the impact and the proposal of the Ministry is diminishing as the Minister or the Minister cannot propose to anyone who has not received a positive assessment of the independent expert group on appropriateness for the Director-General of the Police. And the claims that it could be anyone are demeaning the provisions that are in law. This can not be anyone, but very difficult conditions are required to carry out the work so far, it is a high professional education with specialization or a high professional education with master's degree and master's education. And finally, as far as the circle from which it can be selected is concerned, either the police or anyone - it is not true, it is not anyone, but a specific circle, which also knows the problem of police work, these are security or intelligence authorities, detection or prosecution authorities or criminal courts. And one more thing. There have also been many criticisms as to whether the police are given the right authority to use certain funds when it comes to danger. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] For tying up and locking up to protect yourself and the suspect as well. [[...]] These things were also well thought out after the debate in the Legislative and Legal Service and there is no reason not to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that the SDS Group will not support this law. The bill is based on an explanation and everything else is based on a burning staff issue, the need to train Schengen police officers and after hiring retired police officers. If the Minister had such a purpose, she would have changed four or five articles and brought this law to the National Assembly. Thus, the alleged human resources problems and problems in this regard represent its backdrop and a fog that can change the law in those articles, which is unacceptable to us. Also, the data published today in the daily newspaper, which is the latest, discusses the following matter: the interior ministry with the police or the police is occupied 90.14%. Of these, police administrations are a little bit more; the general police administration has a little lower employment. As I recall, that's 15 years ago, there was almost never such an ambush. Between 85 and 95% were staff employment, and therefore, for my understanding, the Minister's argument also falls. Even though we did not oppose or oppose this part of the law. So, what's the problem? The problem is, therefore, where it is said: Minister Mate issued an invitation for the Director-General of Police in October last year. At the time of the handover, the Minister placed 15 or more deposits on the table, and, of course, the Minister could choose. She said something else if the invitation to tender was flawed. The invitation to tender was cancelled, corrected, in that part, that it was more or less clear from the invitation to tender that it wished to bring the outside person. He also reads Democracy, and I published one contribution in Democracy, where I made it very clear that this Director-General would swear himself in front of the'speck' because that is what is envisaged. The invitation to tender itself also received 15 or some such, competent people, of which 8 have gone through the entire selection process. Among them are doctors of science in this field who write books in this area that write books and textbooks for all Slovenian police officers. All the ministers liked her and made a good impression on her. However, no one was chosen, a third person was chosen and appointed as the perpetrator of the duties. This is the person who has not applied for this invitation to tender. Let's go to the other regulations of the law. You've been writing this law at the Ministry for three months. 40 out of 140 members amend the Ministry. That means it's not a human resources issue. We can solve that with four articles. Justification of the emergency procedure: 2,700 police officers work at Slovenian police stations - terrible, 400 missing, we can't; the bomb and I don't know what the speaker was saying. It's fog. Part of the fog, nothing else. Slovenian taxpayers pay 9,700 police officers, not 2,700. But the truth is, they're too big for office space. That's right. And that there are too few of them on Slovenian roads, that is true, but it is a matter of reorganization. That's a different subject. According to the means of communication, it was clearly stated that they had argued in the Government over this procedure because one of the ministers, namely President Zareza, was opposed to such a way of appointing a director. The government legislature objected to the urgency of the procedure. None of this has been accepted. The roller's moving on. This cylindrical comes to the National Assembly, comes to the committee I am leading alone, and the president of the assembly gives us six minutes to deal with this law. Let me say today, gentlemen of the coalition, leaders of the parliamentary groups, do not expect anything other than the free work of Members by the rules of procedure and my leadership, no matter when we end up with any law. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Let's keep looking at things. The content concerning the Director-General of the Police is very clear: we have also now heard confirmation: a modern, Western European system and way. That's not true! Liar! The manner introduced by the Ministry has been abandoned by the Slovenian police in 1988. In 1988 they appointed the last police leader to come from the Communist Party. It never happened again that police leaders came from civilian species. And how is it abroad? The Ministry is deceiving. In the UK, London County, Metropolitan Police. When the Director-General leaves, only his assistants may apply to this post. Today's data from Belgium, today I got it - the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u110	Dear Mr. Vice President! Madam Minister and Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Desus Group to supplement the Police Act. The amendment to the legislative procedure for the proposed amendment of the law on the police for multi-layer, system-wide and more comprehensive solutions, and not just to amend one or two articles, which is certainly commendable. However, according to our assessment, this mass of amended articles is also a search for the Director-General of the Police, without the necessary public invitation to tender, but a person for this position would be sought by the interior minister herself. Of course, certain conditions to be met by this person are proposed. This is what the DeSUS Members support. The current invitation to tender, which the Minister refers to as non-transparent, European unacceptable and inappropriate and replace it with a new system, is a risky move, according to our assessment. Why? We are convinced that the current system is transparent and objective, of course it is not perfect and the rules can be avoided or adapted so that the invitation to tender is only sand in the public eye. However, we believe that the degree of objectivity of the current system ensures the choice of the professional and responsible person. Despite the fact that this is a politically motivated solution, we are pleased that at least the so-called preliminary procedure is defined in a way that prevents arbitrary decision-making. Here I am referring to a commission that gives binding opinions, I repeat, binding, so that it represents a guardian because the Minister is limited in this respect. Therefore, we will not oppose the new appointment process by DeSUS Members, even though we are skeptical, withheld until this solution, as it also allows for a significant policy impact on the choice of the Police Director-General. However, according to our belief, the law certainly needs to be amended, and the proposaler has gone in the direction of extending the powers of the official police officers. Some believe that by implementing the proposed solutions in this direction we can already talk about the police state, which we cannot agree with in any way in the DeSUS Group. We still believe that the Republic of Slovenia is a democratic country in which the power of an entire people respects human rights and freedoms. Police Slovenia would have a police force when the police would only act on the will of every political authority, where the law-making rules of men's conduct are of blue secondary importance. Since verification of individuals is constant and similar, overstatement with such markings is not in place. In short, Members of the DeSUS support a better, more consistent regulation of the exercise of police powers, and we are particularly pleased with the ministerial confidence in pensioners. Indeed, the solution that allows a fixed-term working relationship to be concluded with a retired police officer is certainly welcome both because of the lack of police officers and because of the re-engagement of socially beneficial groups with rich experience and knowledge among the working active population. Such a model is also known by Scandinavian countries, and we see no reason for a person who is already retired if he expresses his own desire to do so and if he is able to do this work, not to allow employment for a certain period of time, even in view of the actual lack of police officers. Members of the DeSUS are also convinced ourselves, we are proof that the population of pensioners is by no means, so to speak, "for an old pattern", not even a mere expense or a burden to our society, on the contrary, we believe that on the basis of our long-standing rich experiences in certain areas we are more than welcome and that we can actively contribute to the better future of our society. Therefore, certain segments of the proposed law are certainly receiving our support, while we have some reservations, and yet the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Police is supported by the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]] As extensive a law as the Police Act deserves a broad and thorough debate and not an urgent one. While changes in human resources policy are also necessary through long-term planning to ensure the quality of the staff that the police deserve. This high-quality cadre came from a high-school police school and, as it turns out today, the abolition of this school was a big mistake. The police academy provides personnel that are not always suitable, as some also have a questionable past, which is evident through their work and behavior in their spare time. This is often summed up by the media and told by their coworkers, the police. To train police officers who are on the Schengen border and hire them indefinitely is one of the solutions and not the best. As is known, there are four hundred open and unoccupied jobs at police stations. Of course, we need to think about why the police are leaving their species. Certainly not only are early retirements to blame, but they are primarily guilty of: poor salaries, poor working conditions, overcrowding due to lack of personnel and also bullying by police leaders. The state must not afford that a repressive body such as the police loses its power because it gives power to those who are consciously violating the law. Police officers must be restored to their dignity, their reputation, which they once had, and especially their authority, which is now at the bottom. We can't afford the rioters waiting for the cops to come to the scene to insult them and deal with them. It is necessary to end this and to severely sanction such offences. This is also the part of the debate that refers to the removal jail and the argument that offenders belong to the closed-circuit prisons. Calling and hiring retired police officers is only a temporary solution that will solve the problem on short notice. Perhaps it would suggest hiring people from offices to operational services and thus solve the problem in the police, and we would be able to get rid of the excess staff in the administration. Better police security is certainly one of the sensitive chapters that deserves a broader debate. Police officers do not like to talk about this, and it is therefore necessary to adopt such a law that will allow the safety of police officers in the performance of their duties and that the citizens have a corrected procedure. The establishment of police powers, such as the use of coercive means, personal checks, examinations of things, visible parts of the vehicle, is an authorisation which is an integral part of their work, but which is not specified in the law. It is therefore necessary to record clearly and unequivocally in this work procedures which are undoubtedly very important for the personal safety of a police officer and for the safety of people. This will also protect police against possible abuse of charges and disciplinary procedures, which is now a daily routine among the police. In the Slovenian National Party, it does not seem right for us to get involved in the writing of the Police Act, in people who have no idea of the work of the police, especially in the part that talks about the procedure and the use of coercive means. Especially here is the Ombudsman, who is always on the side of those who are guilty, but never on the side of a police officer who has led the proceedings. In the Slovenian National Party, we advocate that the law be written by the profession. Even those who do this work in the field, for only then will marriage be good and acceptable to everyone. The modern concept of appointment and discharge of the Director-General of the Police is a topic in which we cannot fully agree, because we believe that the Director-General should be of the police, in short, of the profession. We have opinions in the Slovenian National Party, as well as in practice it is clear that the Director-General must be of the police type, of course, with certain practice in the police and appropriate education. It is not serious to think that a repressive body such as the police would be led by someone who does not have the appropriate knowledge and practice that he has received in the police ranks. I hope that you will take our proposals into account when appointing the Director and thus contribute to the quality of the staff in the Police. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Police Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u114	Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The new Police Act brings a number of innovations, particularly in four areas: in the fields of personnel, in the area of security and better police work, in the area of police powers and in the field of the appointment or discharge of the Director-General of the Police. Let me first touch the procedure itself. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is wrong to consider so many proposals for laws under an urgent procedure. I don't know, maybe only the essence of the emergency procedure is misunderstood. Maybe he understands and abuses himself. Whatever the case, there are basically three treatments for the adoption of the law and, of course, enough time to eventually adopt such a law as is necessary. I have a feeling that we are a little too involved in this anti-crisis action and that the Government has brought this anti-crisis thinking to all areas. All of a sudden, it's all very urgent. And if we don't adopt a bill at light speed, the whole system will collapse. I ask you kindly to make a more selective determination of the necessary procedure for the adoption of laws. And if I go back to the content. In explanation of the bill, 400 unoccupied posts in police stations have been mentioned as a reason for the urgent procedure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the idea that these cities will be filled by the work of so-called Schengen police officers and by reactivating retired police officers. It is true that human resources problems are detected on the ground. In particular, as regards emergency action. We warn, however, that these problems will not only eliminate a large number of employees, but also their expertise and ability. Changes are also promised in the area of police powers. Police officers should be able to carry out a so-called personal examination concerning the examination of persons, goods and vehicles. These are cases which in practice often happen when police officers, for reasons of public safety and for the purpose of seizing items, carry out a review of the person and the things he or she has with him. We also agree that the law clearly defines the conditions for the use of means of fastening and tying. It also creates the possibility of using technical means to detect and prove violations and use photo, audio and video equipment. Finally, I should only touch on the changes relating to the appointment of the Director-General of the Police. The bill states that there are stricter and more precise conditions or criteria for candidateing this place. Again, we are with the so-called Human Resources Accreditation Councils and professional commissions, but in our opinion they are far from providing a really good and professional choice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, therefore, we believe that a modern and complicated concept of appointment does not mean that the appointed one will really work well and professionally. Somehow we tend to think it would be better for the director to be appointed by someone who is home in the police field, not from the outside. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that it is very important that the Minister or the Government chooses such a Director-General of the Police who really trusts him and in whose ability he truly believes and, most importantly, that he then bears absolute responsibility for such a choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The SDS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 2 and I am opening the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? I'm opening time for an application. [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Gorenak, we'll do it again later. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u116	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I support the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, which has prepared amendments to the law on police in this area. In fact, I think the arrangement proposed ensures that an expert will be selected. I certainly cannot agree with the issue of opposition colleagues, especially from the SDS, that this is a political choice. Let's see what the candidate for the new CEO needs to do. It shall have at least 15 years of working experience in the field of the operation of security and intelligence authorities, detection or prosecution authorities or criminal courts. A minimum of 5 years of working experience is required in management jobs. Tell me which politician or political person meets these criteria, of course not, this is professional. And one more thing, this new guardian of the three-member body or expert commission is also, in my opinion, well placed. Indeed, the Minister can neither appoint nor resolve - which is news, the Director-General, if this three-member commission does not approve. Let's see who the members of the three-member committee are. For the first time, this is the President of the Council of Officials. The Official Council and its President have already been chosen very precisely and professionally under the current legislation of the Law on Public Servants. Then he's a representative of the State Prosecutor's Council. We'll say here, too, it's probably a professional function. And thirdly, a distinguished external expert appointed by the President of the Republic. Here, of course, they had the most concerns of their colleagues from the SDS in the debate of the Committee on Internal Policy, but I think that, if it is ready, and according to the assurances of the representatives of the Ministry, the President of the Republic is to appoint his candidate, an expert from these types to the commission, to raise the reputation of the work of this commission and, of course, also of the selected candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister of the Interior, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, I might like to briefly touch on the very procedures of this adoption of the Police Act. For I believe that it is totally unacceptable and unacceptable for us to adopt this law in an urgent manner. I believe that this is such an important and sensitive issue, which should certainly be discussed more broadly, to have a public debate and then to deal with the law on a regular basis. In particular, because it seems to me that we are introducing some new powers within this law, such as a review of a person and things where there is an extremely sensitive problem, which also concerns the integrity of each individual. Therefore, I believe that the procedure would be significantly better if this law were adopted and dealt with on a regular basis. As for the amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which states that paragraph 2 is deleted - this is the article that speaks of the appointment of the Police Director - I can say that, in my opinion, it would be better if the Director-General were someone of the police type who would actually do his job professionally, especially those who would fully know police work. But let me just say, it doesn't really bother me that much. I am more disturbed by something else that Mrs Klasinchev mentioned at the outset, a matter that I myself have already raised on the Internal Policy Committee. This is about the fact that the appointment of the Police Director is involved or, so you have determined within this law that the President of the State is directly or indirectly involved. In my opinion, this case is a major politicisation of the police. The fact is that this is a major problem when the President of the State himself is involved in the appointment of the Police Director. On one occasion, the President of the State said that post-war killings were a second-class topic, and today he is obviously dealing with significantly more important topics than the appointment of the Director-General of Police. And that seems to me to be beneath every level, that the president is doing whatever he can with that appointment. This, in my view, is a second-class topic for the President or should be a second-class topic for the President of the State. Of course, I do not think that this is because the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made it clear that it is necessary to consider whether the President of the State could actually interfere with the appointment of the Director-General of the Police. I will therefore, of course, support the amendment itself to delete Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, do you have a replica? [[The ad in the hall: "It was named."]] Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u120	Look, I would react to the dictates of colleague Irgle regarding the involvement of the President of the country in the appointment of the Director-General. I don't think the president of the state is involved. Nor is the President of the State a representative of any political party to be a political person and thereby discredit some decision-making process, as I have already said, I think we should just raise his price with this. Secondly, I do not understand how some of the statements that have been ripped out of the context are being warmed up here. The President of the Republic never said postwar conditions were a second-class topic, but he said they were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u121	Mrs Klasincheva, you have the opportunity to explain your position and your debate. I agree with you on this, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u122	I understand. But you know this truth, Mr President, this lie becomes the truth if it repeats itself repeatedly. And that's why I'd like to deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So before that, in my report on the Committee's work, I have heard that, of course, I do not agree that the majority of the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration has been assessed that the way in which the Director-General of the Police is appointed is, as proposed here, some way that was in force in the communist regimes. So, in the communist regimes, if I recall correctly, for example, it was far from the fact that the Presidents of the Republic would be elected in direct general modern elections and therefore I find this comparison completely inappropriate here. Nor is the fact that the Chairman of the Committee calculated that only six minutes had been available to each member of the Committee to discuss this law. Indeed, we know, on the one hand, that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has brought to this committee a number of Members who, of course, could, like all the other members and members, have been able to debate, but they could not vote, and of course, this was also known at the time that we spent this consideration. But I also don't give much money on how long it's available to discuss some law. Winston Churchill once said, if the speaker can't say anything briefly and he can't go deep in his speech, it goes wide. And this was at this meeting, at these meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, more than obvious. It was also more than obvious that it had tried and also succeeded in stalling the work of this committee. So, on the contrary, I do not think I know what the term should mean for the President to interfere. What does that actually mean for the president to be involved in some matter? I imagine that just as the President of the Republic is in charge of appointing a third member of this commission, someone who is an expert, a respected expert, an independent person in specific areas that are substantively linked to the late work of the Director-General of the Police and the police as a whole. I consider this to be more important than what is positive in this bill. And that's what we thought most of the time, so I don't think there's anything wrong with that. We object that this amendment would be accepted, because by adopting this amendment we would in fact destroy the basic purpose that the proposaler here represents and enforces. And one more thing. That's all I'll remember. More than a good year ago, I asked the previous Minister for Home Affairs whether it was true that the police were so highly malnourished. In fact, every day we received individual notification from individual police officers and from the police union. And we ourselves have sometimes had the opportunity to face the fact that the calls to help citizens, citizens, for police officers working in the field to respond to votes were not enough. And that was an undeniable fact. At the time, the minister silenced that fact and said that these officers were enough. So let's ask ourselves this way. If it holds that the police are understaffed, then the general security in this country, citizens and citizens, is distorted and is then necessary, more than necessarily, that we change this matter and this situation and, of course, that is why I cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In her explanation, Madam Minister said at the outset that the police policy had been disastrous in the past period. After six months of running the police station, the police are obviously in the wind. So, we need to be precise, we have not heard that anything would be catastrophic in the police in the previous term, but that there is obviously a lot going on in this mandate. We have also heard that today's comparison, I have no objection, was such a diction as that in this country lawyers have too much power at the expense of criminals. However, when we amended the Law on Lawyers, everything was wrong in the previous term because it was done in connection with the Law on Lawyers. This is how it is used from hour to hour for daily policy arguments I find counterproductive and it will certainly turn to Mrs Minister. Even in the introduction, as we move on to Article 2, which is, to put it mildly, an attempt to write a free file in the fifth grade as widely as possible. In fact, I cannot agree that the matter of the appointment of a commission, or the appointment of a Police Director, should be extended to six or seven articles, in which some of the dictions are, I must say that ridiculous or very awkwardly written, I will find the right expression, and then I will quote something. It is no wonder that these solutions, among which it is far more controversial, involve the institution of the President of the State in a very undignified way in this matter. I will defend the institution of the President of the State, and I imagine that the President of the State, as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, cannot go so low as to appoint a member of the Commission, who will then propose to the Minister of the Candidate, who is not required to act as Police Director, but at the same time the President of the State already has an impact on the composition of the Editorial Council. His function has already been captured there. No one will convince me that such manoeuvres are in a double function: politicisation and abuse of the police for political purposes and degression or mine clearance of the reputation of the President of the Republic. No wonder the Law-Legal Service immediately found this, the non-conformity of such a solution, even with the Constitution and Madam Minister, is very, I must say, today tried to inform the assembly here that anything had been withdrawn. In Article 19, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said, for one thing, that she was accepting an explanation from the Ministry. When we discussed Article 2, there was no change of position and the written document of the Legislative and Legal Service was meroded and not withdrawn. So it would not appear that the dictions that are here are in any way withdrawn. And here they say that what is proposed can mean an extension of the powers of the President of the Republic as defined by the Constitution. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 107 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic has no jurisdiction to participate in the procedures for the selection of candidates for the performance of public functions, but may appoint public officials where provided for by law. Now a member of the commission to propose to the minister is not a state official. If someone convinces me that he's a state official, then we've become a banana state. Maybe the goal of this coalition is to become a "banana state". The aim of this article and this law is to completely blur the power of competence, to lay the groundwork that it will be politically fit and that, obviously, because certain other dictions in this law are instilling it, they will, if necessary, violate and restrict human rights, beyond what the Constitution foresees. Therefore, this Article should be repealed and repealed. This, however, is the coverage of the Minister's conduct when she rejected the current invitation to tender, the applicable choice, the recommendations, which is why she denied any other commission which would have a legal basis. That invitation to tender was withdrawn. He was named V.D., the perpetrator, and we didn't say a word of regret about this person. I hear, however, that he has taken too seriously speaking to the current authorities about the independence of the police, that he has indeed acted independently. And I guess he was, I've already said, he's been in a lot of danger, and I don't know what he is, because the police are investigating Jankovic and being held accountable in a corruption case, when millions of euros were just for fictitious business. He understood that any citizen who had committed a crime could be investigated. And now it is necessary to find a way, of course, in many words, to eliminate it gallantly, seemingly gallantly. I do not like much here because practically this law also provides for the expansion of the use of specific methods and means, which is a special procedure. However, it will be clear to you that it will be clear to the public what else it foresees, what is not necessary, which in itself is reasonable or also raises certain questions; when Article 5c breaks down when the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, can prematurely resolve the Director-General of Police, it says, for the first time, if it so requires. But if he asks for it, he can get rid of it. Due to the permanent loss of working capacity to perform the function. And, thirdly, if he has been legally convicted of an alleged crime that is being prosecuted on official duty or sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, we say, for more than three months. From what you've written in here, I have a feeling that you will also be recruiting during probation, with your people in prison, who are being convicted. They're part of the police case, but I can't imagine anyone coming into the Police Director's box who's supposed to have committed a premeditated crime. And keep this side because it's a disgrace to the state. In that way, it's so low that it's ready to go to the police. So, as has been established by the Legislative and Legal Service, this article is in conflict with the Constitution, contrary to the Constitution, it will be rejected in the Constitutional Court, and I still have so much confidence. And because of this, Madam Minister, it is now an opportunity to withdraw this and not sink below in how to disrupt our constitutional system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. Well, I will try to be within the framework of the amendment to Article 2, although this is very broad. What is worth pointing out in our proposal is the explanation of our amendment, but we are trying to make one positive contribution so that the ministry can come from some of the tested methods and principles of good staffing, such as in the Slovenian Army or perhaps in the prosecution's organisation. This is just our appeal, which we were sure you would think would not happen what happened at the New Ljubljana Bank, where you forgot that you have some cash, that you have no idea what else, some commission, I don't know how many of them you have, from now on. And, of course, with the ability to begin by going into a change of law is one of the worst possible options, but at least, we understand this very well, one of the most solid ones you can rely on when someone asks you a question. And there's something else to be warned about. You know, in the coalition and the opposition, we know the coalition agreement you signed, which led to the proper respect of some of the cooperation agreements. And on page 50 of this coalition agreement or coalition treaty or whatever you want, you have it written in paragraph 1 that you will not do what you are doing today. That's too bad, because in the end you get the feeling that you're talking one thing, you're doing the other, and you're writing something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinic. Excuse me. They're still picking up. I'll give you time to report. I'm starting with the time to report. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you. So, I have to find out in this law that we are dealing with a similar practice as some others. The minister or ministers assure us that there is something urgent, that there is a problem, and then let us resolve a few things that are not a problem at all. Thus, free legal aid was a problem for the Minister of Justice, and we had to do something quickly. There is a human resources problem with the Minister of the Interior, and we will also arrange for the Director-General of the Police, but that is the way it is. It is obvious that we have to agree to this or that we do not agree with or agree to the words of our colleagues who say that we are delaying the proceedings. We could then feel that this morning, too, the coalition president of one of the committees, Mr Rob, who failed to complete the meeting and therefore had a suspension, delaying the proceedings or meetings of the committee. I think he's trying to change the law to legitimize something that wasn't honored by the Minister by the appointment of the Director-General or v.d. the Director-General. I'm talking about the last appointment, when we cancelled one of the calls, we put out another one to which certain people applied, and you didn't choose any of them, but someone else. Apparently, this one is not right now, or has failed, and you are not happy with him. And you keep telling us that it's not a political appointment, that you want to lead the police differently, or that you want to lead the appointments differently, but even your coalition partner, DeSUS, notes that the change you're proposing will have a significant policy impact on choice. They're very skeptical, but apparently not enough to reject the law, which means they'll confirm it. You are also talking about the fact that so far the system and appointment has been untransparent, but for me, the system that everyone can apply to is the most transparent because it is a public tender and experts can apply. Now, in some narrow circle, you'll be looking for the expert that suits you. I will therefore support our amendment to Article 2 so that all these articles, which speak of a different appointment of the Director-General, are deleted. However, I would like to point out in this article 5a, in which you write: "In the event that the Director-General has not passed an examination for the exercise of police powers", we know that this is a police school that can last from 18 months to 4 years, "is on the basis of professional experience" in the prosecution, for example, which is required under this article to appoint the Director-General "by law is considered to have passed an examination". This means that all those who have been in school for so many years have just been going to school, someone will be able to receive this school by appointing a CEO. I cannot support this, so, as I say, I will support our amendment to this article. I think that the mode of appointment proposed by the Minister strengthens the possibility that many professional staff could apply to lead the police professionally, but we will have a minister, a dear Director-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župvec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Also because this topic here in this National Assembly is dealt with with with by some special ewe, by being dramatic, there is talk of lies, about deception. We're talking about 10,000 people, not the system as such. Slovenian police are people, police and police, with names and surnames. And as one of them who comes from the Slovenian Police has said, no doubt it is one of the most difficult, but it is one of the most dedicated professions, which certainly deserves special attention. It is therefore right that we deal with this subject with particular attention and not with a delicate sense of political drama and nimbleness, and that the end is the world because it is not. I have, in addition to everything that's been said, one godly desire in particular. And that is that the Slovenian police would finally be led by a man who wouldn't be written about almost every day by a newspaper that wouldn't be heard of every day by a story. There have been some stories in the past mandate. We heard tents being set up, instructions being given, and something else. I would like, regardless of what is written in the law, to be taken over by a man who will take responsibility for this function, someone who will take care of the integrity of the Slovenian Police, someone who will be recognized by his subordinates as an authority who will have a reputation for his knowledge, and not because of what some media have written about him in the past. But above all, it'll be an autonomous personality. You talk so much about political personnel. The current law also made it clear who could occupy this city. Yes, who took the post of Director General of the Police in the previous term? Officer. With what reputation? With what authority? Where has this officer been in the past few years? Where was the Home Secretary in the past years? These are all some stories that are drawn from the past, and we're back in some kind of politicization. As I said, I wish there was a man in this place who would have a reputation for his knowledge, not because of such or different connections and stories from the past, which then drag on all the time. Because it finally sheds a bad light on the entire Slovenian police, on a number of other police officers and policemen who are responsible every day for their work and, I am sure, also with some sense of responsibility they have. And, Mr. Gorenak, your view tells everything, indeed. With such an effigy, with such infatuation you have stumbled into this darkness. If the topic is really so responsible, then come forward with arguments, because I did not hear any real arguments in all of your meetings on the committees; except for the introduction of a police state, so that it will be politically staffed and so on. It's all been heard. It would be good if we could come up with some other information. And you're saying that in the last term there were no problems in the Slovenian police. Yes, but the police themselves have warned that they are not satisfied with the situation. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] May I say to the end, Mr Jerovšek? Look, I think the President of the Republic sleeps peacefully because he has some really hot advocates here, but believe me, he doesn't need them because he works too hard. Let me say it to the end. You said there were no problems in the Slovenian police during the previous term. After all, people who work within the police, who know the system, the situation, have warned themselves about it. And I think you need to listen to such warnings, not political warnings coming from this side or that side.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The Ihta you mentioned, Mrs. Zupevcheveva, is caused by you. Your coalition government has proposed an emergency procedure and your coalition majority in the form of the leaders of the parliamentary groups - if you do not know it yet - has established an urgent procedure. If this procedure were a regular procedure, we'd have three months. If this procedure were shortened, we'd have at least a month and a half. So, I reject your claims. But I sign below 50% of what you said. It's about respect for cops, about their work, and so on. I'll sign this thing. But these are your flyers. You've been able to sell such flossules in the past. As far as my arguments are concerned, however, they were very clear why we oppose this article and not the law. As far as the law and the other articles are concerned, we have made it clear that we support the individual matters relating to police officers. It's even a good thing about their safety, the safety of their families. Three times it is necessary to sign under such a matter, not under that cowardly egg or ostrich egg, which is called 'the appointment of the Director-General'. You've given a beautiful image of the future CEO. We've had one of those before. I'm not just gonna say it under our government. We've already had good directors. Now for the first time, we're opening the door to politicians for the first time. In fact, under the Constitution, no policeman can be a member of a political party, according to the constitution - I emphasise. And if internal personnel are provided, it means we're sure to get a non-political chief of police. But with what you wrote, we can definitely get a political boss. And that's how I think he's on his way. That's why we objected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. It was really a pleasure to listen to my colleague Melito Župevc, also because everything she had clearly listened to and understood was misunderstood and came into complete contradiction with herself. Apparently, she was sleepless, slept badly that night, and that's what happened to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u137	Lord Jerovšek, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u138	Me?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u139	or explain your discussion because this is the content of the replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u140	No, look, she said we were dealing with a special ewe. And in the following sentence, she said that this point should be dealt with with with with with particular attention. We are particularly concerned with the fact that we tell chronology, that the law was sent to the hearing on 8 May, 10 or 11 the College adopted an urgent procedure, and 12 the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service came to light. And those who have adopted such a procedure, from which you have verbally all fenced, have only acted differently in the College. That's what you've put the procedure into some sort of idiosyncratic procedure. And you're talking about the palpable procedure, which then, in the second sentence, you say that you should pay special attention. We could meet here. Laws which are under urgent procedure shall not receive special attention. And my colleague also said that I said that there were no mistakes in the police's previous term. I didn't say anything like that. But I said that the minister said that it was a catastrophic policy and that it was a catastrophic situation. But no one said anything about a catastrophic situation, nor did you, like the opposition at the time, say it. And because of that, I don't think of course, going into such nonsense and such contradictions productively here. In fact, it is good because the public will then see what the real purpose of this law’s adoption was.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor, I think. Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon. I will, of course, support the amendment. We want to amend this law, which came to Parliament following an emergency procedure, as if we were living in some emergency situation. Otherwise, this law, like many others we have adopted at this time, points to at least two. To the pathological narcissism of this power on the one hand and to the negotiating incompetence of this authority on the other. Remember, after two months we've adopted an amendment to the Act on Subsidisation of Working Time. What awaits us is that we will be correcting laws that will not even be published in the Official Journal, and that is when we are truly on our way to the Guinness Book of Records. It's bad if some imagination or ingenuity leads to some legal standards, which is also happening in this case. We do not intend to support such laws. This has already happened during the period of socialism or communism, when we were dealing with self-governance, which, of course, was led by Mr Kardelj, when we made a fiction, we were legitimizing the illusion. Self-governing wasn't the law, it was the whole system. The very process of appointing a director, which has been quite said here, in some ways leads us to think about moving slowly into some kind of presidential system, because in some strange way the President of the country is involved in this business. All that's missing is that in a year or two, we're gonna reintroduce a militia or a human crumb. So far, the system or the current system of appointment of the Acting Director of the Slovenian Police has been scandalous. All the procedures have been completed, people have applied, they have gone through all the procedures, some have received excellent grades, they have been written, they have been published in all the media, and then we get the director not by professional references but by personal sympathy, and of course this is bad. Let me end by saying this, in a way it is difficult to be disappointed with this government, because so far the Slovenian people have not been fascinated by a single move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. At the outset, I note that there are nine coalition members of the opposition, a little more, I suppose they will not listen to me, Mr President, at least not coalition, so I will tell the Minister and the Secretary of State, I have a feeling that there will be more impact. Look, I'm serious. Since 1988, the Slovenian police have not been at the head of the political chief. Of course, I consider him to be the predecessor of the current Director-General of the Uniform Police and Chief of Criminal Police. This needs to be said in the beginning. No one later was outside the police. The police are subject to a constitutional ban on political party membership, which means that we already have the original guarantee that they will not be a member of the policy. I am sure that what you have entered in this article, fifteen years of working time on security, intelligence, judicial and so on and so forth, is some criterion that on the outside gives that impression that the Minister taught yesterday at one of the colleges and you have, of course, said that this is some terrible standard that has not yet been that the conditions for appointment are lifted up in the sky and so on. You even said that in these "in heaven sent criteria" it is possible that five to ten people will meet the conditions. Yeah, how? How do you know that? I don't know why you know this, but people who have 15 years of working age at the university and work at security, judicial, intelligence, prosecution organizations are probably more than ten. And yet, of course, this criterion falls. And it's a nice criterion for marriage, for the public, for television, where you're going to make a statement, and so am I, probably, but you can't stand the normal criteria. Why can't he take it? Because all these people could have been politicians, anyone, customer members, sympathizers, or anyone. But look what happens. So, on the day of his appointment as Police Director General, he's going to do something. First, he's going to write an exit statement from one of the political parties. Because he can't be a member if he's a police officer, he can't be a member because he's already a police officer assuming he's not a member. So he's going to return his membership card. That'll be a first. So he's getting out of the party. That's another thing. At that time, according to the article you wrote, paragraphs 3, 4, 5a, in order not to read it, you will admit to him a police education. Police education is obtained in a school that lasts from 18 months to four years and is former and currently 18 months. It's a do-qualification, and sometimes it's a degree in education. This is the same thing, so it says there that as of the day the Director General takes office as a police officer, ergo this is a police school he acquires. Do you think that's normal? Then tomorrow someone will be able to come, and tomorrow you will say that the Attorney General may become one who has such and such in heaven elevated conditions and is granted legal education on the day of his appointment. It's the exact same thing, it's going to be in college, and here's the middle one, at least in the foundation. Or, say, at the head of the General Staff, to send a man who's never been in the military, but he'll be recognized as a soldier. It's unacceptable to me. There's no way this goes through. What you have mentioned in your proposal for a law, I am indeed telling you this, an international comparison. You cited police powers, you quoted them, I know that not everything is comparable, how to identify them and so on. In just two cases, you're talking about how to get to the Director-General, maybe three, so I won't be unjust. If you mention it, article of the law, or some law allowing the appointment of a Director-General in one of the foreign countries. But you're absolutely ignoring whether it could be outside the police, whether it could be the police, or if you did it consciously, I don't know, I'm not gonna tell you anything. Comparably, from the Belgian Parliament, I have received this morning's notification. The Belgian Parliament is very clear: "It is not possible for us to become a chief of police who was not a police officer." English, London police, only three assistants of the Director-General of Police can apply for the Director of Police. And you say it's the best, democratic model. But it's not, I can't believe you, in any way. Let me finish. Look what happens. Otherwise, I'm saying that you have a third person in the background, that's what I said in public, from the prosecution types, you denied. Okay. The public can trust you. The public can trust me. But in the event that it is true, Minister, your word, my first choice is Mr. Goršek, I speak in person, I will be quite pleased, I know him for years and years. But, look, a terrible commission whose members will be appointed by the President of the State, the Prosecutor's Office, and I don't know who else, that commission will meet nicely like this, how many candidates will it have before it - one, Mr. Gorska? This one will probably apply because it's your first choice. I want him to be chosen. But with that, you told everyone else, those of the judges, prosecutors and so on, "My first choice is Goršek, drive, don't sign up!" And to the Commission, whose member will also be someone who will be proposed by the President of the Republic, you said, "My first choice is Goršek, what else will you do, what else do you need?" Look, this is awkward, this is really embarrassing. A very awkward situation and an impossible situation. And then there's the deputy. The Slovenian Deputy Chief of Police can become anyone who meets those conditions that are written in the law, and immediately, if he does not have a police education, he will go to a police school, namely, we will send him to Tacen, you will send him. He's gonna get a mentor, it's gonna be one cop, probably, and he's gonna go to Tacen to school. His exams will be with his subordinate officers. Do you think they'll be able to give him a negative assessment? No! No! So he's going to do the exam. Well, then, after that exam, he's going to go before the Director General of the Police, who's going to swear to him. Comedy! Comedy is a mess! Minister, I'm sure I'd resent you much less if you said, "I want to have Gorška for so long and so long, and I'll leave him for four years." If that's really your first choice. I wouldn't have had any trouble with that, even when he was called, I didn't say sorry words through him. I'd be fine if you were four years old, that's how you decided. You're responsible for running the ministry, because you're responsible, and I can wish you good luck. Just don't bring us MEPs into a comedy of confusion to cover up what you want to do. Really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. Of course, I cannot support this proposed deletion of Article 2. The reason for that is quite something. I do not see any problem in explaining the procedure for the selection of the Director General of the Police, his discharge, the appointment of a special working body to carry out the selection process, and how he is doing with the post. This seems to me to be a justification for why this article is so extensive because it concerns more than one thing. I am not one of those who apriorously question the possibility of success of education if it happens that the deputy is before the questioners who are subordinated to it. Because I don't think anyone who wants to take a leading seat would risk coming to the exams and showing their subordinates that they don't know how to do things. Now, that's just it, because if anyone believes in conspiracy theory, then everything's going to go wrong. And that is what the previous debates have been all about. The law does not regulate things backwards, nor does the law regulate them, at least that way I do not read them, for a one-time opportunity, but tries to regulate the procedure for the selection of the Director-General of the Police for a longer period of time. And just as it is set, there is hope that something like this can happen. Now, of course, there is always a possibility of political influence on the Director-General of the Police, even if it comes from the police. Only an explicit violation of the political inviolability of the police in the previous term would it point out. We all remember who in some place promised people something on behalf of the police. It was Minister Mate, not the cops. Not to mention all the other things that have been particularly involved in this case and that need to be explained further. The minister's political influence on police matters can also be read in the daily newspaper today, when it has been ordered that problems, understaffing and many other things not be discussed. And I would argue that someone is proving if now the police with 89.34% of the seats occupied are understaffed, that this is better than in the past, given that the seizure was between 85 and 95%. Yeah, that's still less than 95! At the same time, I am most concerned about the fact that there are about 82% or 85% of employees on individual police administrations. Where people are most sensitive to the fact that they have security in their local environment in which they live. A trip to who has the right to appoint members to a special committee, but it is distasteful, I must say. The Commission shall be composed of three members: the President of the Official Council shall be the representative of the State Prosecutor's Council. A third recognised and independent expert is in the field of work of security authorities, administration or the protection of human rights. And if he is appointed by the President of the State and has to appoint him on a case-by-case basis, it protected him not to be an independent expert who would have a patent to appoint and propose. It is simply a person who must be decorated with at least more attributes; he must be recognised, independent and professionally qualified for the three key areas in which the police deal. And I am joining my colleague Lautijar Beblereva, who has pointed out that the President of the State has been elected in direct elections and is the President of all citizens and citizens. And I don't know who has so many concerns that the President of the State would not be able to carry out any such electoral procedure. Most people gave him a mandate to perform certain functions that the President of the State is given the law. Some people like to talk about what the constitution defines. But the constitution also states that the President of the Republic can perform those functions that are attributed to him by law. In fact, it is funny that some people stumble on just about every item that comes on the agenda in the National Assembly. You constantly see how slow the government is, but if any changes related to the safety of citizens and citizens have been made, all of this is wrong. In the National Assembly, we have the possibility that a working body, as an interested working body, would appear in these procedures before being treated on the home working body, and this option has not been used. And now those who do and do not regret that there was no more talk about these. Perhaps it would be really good for some to write less, but more to do what the working body and the rules of procedure enable them to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u147	Mr Jerovšek, I didn't hear you mentioned anything. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u148	Your Honor! Of course I don't support the amendment. I have a big problem, because I cannot get used to every "flancari" in this House through my conscience and soul. Today there was talk of fog, of lies, of Noah’s egg. My friend Gorenak explained how this was done once. I guess I could tell you the number of the uniform. But we don't have any of this, because we need to discuss the content, the amendment and so on. I agree that it is the Director-General of the Police who must enjoy great reputation. Therefore, in this proposal, there are many guardians who will be truly professional in handling the situation and who are offered a job that is very important for all, not just police and police officers, for all citizens. More human security, equipment and assets, police security. We are witnessing an increase in aggression in the environment. We've never had a shot. Now that's what's going on. What a bomb he's been working on and stuff. Not that I'm for the police state, but I'm sure the police have little authority. In Goriška, a cop can't look at a drug dealer who comes in, I don't know where he's from, in his pocket. If I go to that side of the border, a cop on the road, when he stops me for speed or document checks, he's got a machine to his head. But that's not what I'm up to. But today, when we have to protect these gentlemen and ladies in the police force, we will have to give them certain powers that those who are truly delinquents who are dangerous to be able to control them before anything bad happens. That is why we need very, very well-trained police and police officers. They say the police's involvement in the field is not problematic at all. I'm talking about the bitter Schengen border when more than 40 of them left this area and we're literally out of cops. It is true that now, with the new legislation of the local community, through the editors, we take on some very responsible and challenging tasks. I was against it, but that's how it happened. When the mayors are answered and handled by detention and anything else that is absurd, the editor will always carry the portion, and cooperation between the police and the civil service will be of exceptional, extraordinary importance. A lot of young cops and cops went to retirement, first with reorganizations and so on, because they were from the communist era. That's what the talk was about today. We have never lived in this country, not Yugoslavia. They don't know what communism was, we were in socialism. Young people stayed home, got pensions, walked up and down the street. Sometimes from the buffet to the buffet. And then it was the thanks of this country, instead of using their rich knowledge and experience to make useful use of them in their work. I therefore support all these changes to the law, whether it is a quick procedure or not to drag these things back six months. It's already today, I think a lot of too many words were unnecessary. If we really talked about substantive issues, we could make a big contribution to this amendment of the law by a large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, I think it is appropriate to point out that it is not true that what was previously proposed here is that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has completely rejected these proposed amendments to the law and that it has argued in its opinion that the provision on how the Commission for the appointment of the Director-General of Police is drawn up is contrary to the Constitution. The legal and legal service, the truth to the heart, has said that some questions are emerging in this regard and that it is therefore proposing further reflection on the admissibility of the President of the Republic's participation in the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police, which, by the way, is not true. The President of the Republic shall not participate in the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police, but shall only appoint one of the members of the tripartite commission. There is already a difference in this, so this opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is, by law, superficial. And since some are so worried whether this is in accordance with the Constitution or not, I would expect them to discuss this particular issue on the Internal Policy Committee. No, we didn't touch that at all, because as an argument, members of the opposition, you were simply saying that this is a living proof of how our country is going to the police state and how this reduces credibility for the President. But we should probably discuss this. I would point out here that it is possible to think that this may be constitutionally controversial, but the President of the Republic has his powers not only in Article 107 of the Constitution but also in many other articles of the Constitution. Among other things, it has a proposed function in several places. And here the bill-maker provides him with a proposed function. He proposes one of the three members of this commission. As, for example, he has a proposed function in the election of the Judicial Council, because of the eleven members of the Judicial Council, five members of the Judicial Council are appointed on a proposal from the President of the Republic. It is said that we could find some parallels that would fit perfectly. By the way, there's something else I'm even more worried about. One of these three members of the Commission is proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council. We know who is currently the head of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Also a person who is probably not a member of a political party, but we do know that she has run for president with the support of a specific political party. Is everything all right here? This concerns me, however, because the Attorney General has other powers, very interesting and also very controversial at times in terms of protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. These things are complex, they need to be dealt with, as has been said, carefully, but not with some political arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Look, in these previous performances it is necessary to react to some things, because these attacks, let's leave the measurements accurately and with a certain goal, have a broader background. Let's let the colleague heal some complexes, make the current president of the Commission better lead, and very well, run a neutral human rights commission. Okay, I understand these complexes. The second is very dangerous in her performance. In her performance and also in Mrs Darje Lavtizar's performance, we witnessed an incredible attack on the Legislative and Legal Commission. Because, Mr. Chairman, on the committee you also attacked between the lines, sophisticated that then the representative of the ZPS [[Legal and legal services]] Scared, and that the Minister here today referred to as the withdrawal of the entire position of the Law-Legal Service, it is apparent that the Law-Legal Service has been specifically treated as an attack. To say here that it is distasteful, that some, the stumbling is spoken of by this sentence, which Mrs Darja Bebler has just quoted. And Mrs Bebler says that we are not on the committee at all, and I myself have quoted this opinion several times from the Legal and Legislative Service. And here he is deceiving the public that this was not a problem at all on the committee. I must say that under such conditions it will be very difficult to work in the National Assembly. However, in your opinion, the legal and legal service must not be independent. There must be tools in the hands of the authorities and the parliamentary majority. This pressure is incredibly clear. With such defensive terms to mark this opinion, it is unheard of and this has not happened in my 13 years what is now happening. As a result, these hidden purposes, the use and abuse of the police for political purposes are more than transparent and visible. Regrettably, these arrangements of yours, when you have agreed on how to discredit the legal and legislative services and threaten them to be afraid to write a legal opinion, this is monstrous and this is an attack on independence, including Parliament, and on the role of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I, you know this very well, Mr Jerovšek, must not object, although you have said quite the untruth, but I am not surprised. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I will object to Mr Jerovsk. I do not expect you to quote me correctly, Mr Jerovšek, because this is not your intention at the final stage. And the question is whether you can or can't do this. However, the fact is that I spoke about the fact that this position of the Legislative and Legal Service was not dealt with at the meeting of the Committee: whether this is in accordance with the Constitution or not or whether it is possible to draw any other parallels with regard to the powers of the President of the Republic and so on. And secondly, I don't know where you think anyone could have silenced and intimidated the Legal and Legal Service. I don't know where you get the idea and even think about it that way. Well, then, that's a little worrisome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. A debate? There's no replica. I'm opening the door if anyone else wants to sign up for the debate. Here you go. Ms Melita Župevc took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Before that, the arguments themselves were indeed made. I'll do it again. Treatment of complexes, tasteless, unheard of, is difficult to work and so on, just crying and groaning. Let's add something a little bit more concrete. It has been said, and this is the expert opinion of a Member who is aware at all that it is the key intention of the police to abuse for political purposes. That's the key motive. Oh. K. We're going after the letter of the law that you read very carefully. By the letter of the law and by all regulations, the police are autonomous. Is that right? Well, let us see what it says in today’s newspaper: Matte ordered his subjects to remain silent. About what? About the situation in the Slovenian police. And when we talk about political pressures, especially during the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u158	I would just like to say to Mrs Bebler that it's not true that we haven't considered it substantively. Read the magnetogram because you were there, and now you're saying you don't know, I warned myself that this would fall to constitutional contention in the Constitutional Court. This is certainly a talk about content if we have quoted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that further consideration is needed on the admissibility of determining the cooperation of the President of the Republic. But I have been talking about the protection of the Institute of the President of the Republic all the time, and here Mrs Potrata says that this is distasteful and that this is a stumbling block to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and so on. And this is an insult to the Legal and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That'll be more like an answer to imprecise cheering. In my debate on the Law-Legal Service, I did not mention anything, so it would be good to hear what anyone is saying. However, I reacted to what is rude, really rude, to talk to the weaker verbs about the role of the president of the country in appointing a member of the commission. There is no disputed post of President of the State, but it is disputed for a number of the opposite political options if the President of the State is, according to them, a member of a different political orientation. What has already happened in this country on behalf of this because it was not the President of some, we know and we have been monitoring. And I say that it is not in conformity, as I read things if the President of the State is given the opportunity to appoint a member to a body. Last but not least, in the previous term, we have also proposed that the President of the State be given the opportunity to appoint representatives of civil society to the Programme Council. Such procedures in which the President of the State may have appeared as a candidate, however, what appears to have been safeguarded in this law is that, for each such special appointment of a member to the committee, he must appoint an expert on a case-by-case basis. It's not an expert for all eternity. That's how it feels to some extent to protect you. Otherwise, I understand Mr Jerovska has different views on things. I can live with it, and I'm not frustrated about it, and I guarantee it. But I will always discuss things the way they should be discussed. And if a law on police, proposed changes, are so disturbing from the point of view of human rights, then, given the functions and opportunities it has, it should also take advantage of these options, and not make these calls public now that the law is just before the adoption of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I can see that we have concluded the debate on the amendment to Article 2. Thank you very much. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13. Anybody want a word? Discussment application. Ms Eva Irgle applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, it was said earlier in the debates that this law is now being adopted with an incredible hiccup. Yes, I fully agree with that. This has been said by the coalition Members and Members, mainly of the SD. I must warn you, we are adopting this law on police today only because the interior ministry and the minister who runs it have decided that we must take it on an urgent basis. That's why it's such an incredible eavesdropper. In my view, however, it is quite undignified and unacceptable that we do not have a broader debate on this important law, but that we accept quickly what we have on the agenda. By the way, also President-in-Office, Mr Potrč, said at the outset that he was not exactly satisfied that today we are adopting this law in an urgent manner. I appreciate and respect Mr Purchast, he knows the procedure, and he knows that it is totally inappropriate for us to adopt such a law in accordance with the urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u163	Ms Eva Irgle, just be kind, and explain that in the presentation of the Group's position, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u164	That's right, in presenting the point of view. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u165	Not as vice president. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u166	Not as Vice-President, you are now chairman, it is true, but as a representative of the SD Group of Members in your opening statement, absolutely. [[...]] What I think is important about Article 13 that we are deleting or proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to delete is so. The fact is, within this law, a completely new mandate is being introduced at this time, which the police will be able to use. It is a mandate that provides for a review of a person and things, which I believe can also lead to abuse and unjustifiable interference in integrity, as well as the dignity of an individual. That's a fact. Therefore, I cannot accept certain statements earlier, a colleague from the Social Democrats, when she said that I, as President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, could deal with this by also addressing this law on this committee and not by warning publicly both Amnesty International and the Ombudsman of human rights that it would be wise and wise to define this law, even to this new mandate. And once again we will repeat this public appeal; I think, given that we have witnessed again and again in the past, when some new powers have been exercised that have affected sensitive areas, which I thought was the only right thing, it is said that both Amnesty International and the Ombudsman, or now the guardian of human rights, have spoken at that time. Today, in this case, you remain silent under this law. And I don't think that's good. I think it would be more than necessary for these issues to be identified today. Then, of course, all of us together will be better able to make decisions or adopt such a law or not. I myself will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much again. See, this Article 13 is also in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service very controversially written. It introduces some of the concepts that, in our view, open wide up the possibility of abuse of police powers and human rights violations. In fact, what the Legislative and Legal Commission says, the one it's putting pressure on in the National Assembly, and it's probably quite a fear that we're reading their written opinions here. They say that the question of proportionality and thus the permissibility of interference with the rights of an individual is raised and then I read only the passages "It would be necessary to lay down further conditions as only an indication that the examination of the person and the seizure of the objects is carried out on grounds of public security..." [[...]] [[...]] The reasons for public security were in the previous system of cover and the basis for mass violations of human rights. And then cream comes to all of this when they also introduce a new term: "reasonable probabilities" for the review of a person and things. The legislative and legal service says: 'We appreciate that the term'reasoned probability' in the first paragraph of the proposed new article is not appropriate'. But this authority obviously needs such vague notions that it will be a very loosely written matter so that these definitions can be misused. I do not claim that there is no need for additional powers, but so vaguely written that they have no connection with the law or are reincarnated by certain notions which were thought to have been rejected for eternity, and this concerns. And that's what the lawyers in this house are worried about. Look, in the following lines of this article, I will read you one paragraph of this article. In two places, in this article and in the 19th, when it comes to locking, it is as if, as a criterion, they have now put into law what was strictly in the case of Zidar-Penko, according to the legal and criminal and security principles to which the Minister now refers, then attacked as a violation and on the basis of which police investigations were prevented and things that were locked in the car should not be looked at. Let's hear how much money it took. For huge sums of money, for money laundering. This is what we hear and, of course, was a valid reason for these same ones to prevent it at that time. Now it says, "Since the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is in or beside the vehicle and the policeman has directly observed that the objects have been hidden or dumped in the vehicle and are in the vehicle, the officer may also carry out an examination of the interior of the vehicle, except for its hidden parts." This is exactly what they put in the marriage. But now, not as a violation, but as a basis for doing what was done in the case of Zidar-Penko, in these legal circles, but mainly political, politically motivated circles, then dramatically attacked and protected by those drastic attacks and even through the media at that time. The court couldn't even rule on that case. And also with regard to unlocking, when there was then talk about some tight cuffs, so terrible, this is now in Article 19 as the norm, as the law, and at the time it was disputed. At the very least, what it shows here is the duality of those lawyers who wrote it. And now this case of Zidar-Penko will be even more controversial in public what was then prevented. The police know that that's when a big fish escaped the police, and she had to bring it in. But that means that when it comes to "ours," it was a violation of human rights, but now that "ours" are in power, that's the norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj also asked for the floor. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yes]] . I'm opening time for discussion. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u170	Good afternoon. I just wanted to take a brief look at today's debates - even though I'm not in the hall, I listened to them, so to speak - about everything else and very rarely about these two amendments. I think it's become a notorious habit to argue that the law sucks, that the police have been good in the past, and I don't know what else. If only we had to talk about the amendments and we were running out. And that is why I would only say that the attention of the public also, thanks to the opposition in the National Assembly, is focused solely on the terms of the amendment to Article 2, while the other amendment, which speaks of the powers or procedures of the police in connection with the inclusion and tying or the seizure of things or objects that may endanger either the suspect himself or the policeman himself, is, in fact, ridiculous, I will say, ignore the facts. The fact that police are almost as threatened today as civilians in many cases and that we have already been several times, not as witnesses, but we have been informed that police officers have been injured in the proceedings. I think it is necessary to ensure that they can work normally with the nature of their work. When we talk about the fact that the law now includes interventions that somehow legalize the treatment of certain persons who have been locked in inappropriate ways, the force that has been inappropriate to the process itself and also to those who have been chained is very much on broken legs. When it is more precisely defined, in which cases individual actions can be carried out by police officers, I think that this is just a protection for those who are in the process, against inappropriate treatment of them, but not the opposite, that the procedures that were previously mismanaged are now being legalised. I would say that this second amendment to Article 6 is, in fact, totally unnecessary and would advise you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you. You tell us that we are calling on the Ombudsman and the other institutions in this country to take care of the protection of human rights. Amazingly, nothing had to be called for in the past term. Everyone had an opinion, mostly negative, expressed in every way possible: on television, at our meetings and everywhere. Now it's like there's no one here and that thing is just right. We would probably expect the guardian to be identified to that end, at least by her, who is also dealing with such cases. And we didn't say that everything was great in the previous term, and that everything worked perfectly in the police force, because if we thought that way, then we wouldn't take any changes, we wouldn't be following things up, in short, we wouldn't be doing anything, and we were just doing a few things. I have here a report on the work of the police in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. In the topic "Monitoring the exercise of police powers and the threat of police officers" in 2007, the police wrote in their report that "special attention has been paid to the legal and professional use of coercive resources and the elimination of irregularities at work. To this end, material for publications on cases of practice has been collected, teaching material has been prepared for the use of physical force, locking and binding agents, means of forcible cessation of means of transport and the use of a gas dispenser." That was in 2007. In 2008, the police wrote in their report that the publication "Examples From Practice" was published. We asked for this because if we were to discuss this subject, we would like to know on what basis or why a change of law was needed. In addition, it was noted that amendments and additions to the Police Powers Rules were in place to regulate certain police powers more appropriately. We didn't get that either. I think it would be fair for Members and Members at least that all these materials, which would explain why and what the problem is, why the law needs to be amended, although there is nothing written in any report about the need to amend the law, but this could be regulated by the Police Powers Regulation or regulated there or not. But we don't know that because of course we didn't get it. And you're saying that the darkness is sensitive and that we're accepting it with some kind of hiccups. True, if we had time, we could probably have all these things in the course of the proceedings. Then it would probably be easier to make decisions about very important and very sensitive things, which you yourself have mentioned, which are simply extending certain powers. I'm also here to make sure that the police are safe, that their safety is taken care of. But even before we mentioned something, there was so much talk about human rights that it's amazing that now no one protecting human rights in this country can define it and say, no, that's great, but that will solve the problems. Or he says, let's think this over and take a little more time. I will support the amendment that we propose in our Group of Members. I would also expect you to be able to vote just as you wished and imagine that we will only get from the Ministry what I am asking. It is said that the publication "Examples from Practice" and what changes have been made to the Police Powers Rules since when and where the basic data on what is going on in this area have been in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am interested in hearing this debate and I am serious about it, I understand the law and I also understand article 13 so that we want to make the police operational, effective and at the same time protect the police in their work and protect our citizens. I am seriously thinking, some who want to erase this article, or advocate that criminals, drug dealers, those who bring with them a variety of weapons, more rights and that they should be disturbed as much as possible by their work. I'm also surprised, but it's obvious to some people that some things see already extremely black, especially negative, and how everything will be abused. I remember a good joke from high school about cops when they said, "What does a cop think when he sees a banana shell in front of him?" Answer: I will fall again. I think that the police are working effectively today, well, they're not thinking about it, but these black scenarios are driven by politics, obviously mainly from the opposition types. I understand police powers as a measure to improve the functioning of the police. Above all, it seems essential to me to say that there are changes in the field of police powers that do not bring new enlargements, but in particular restrictions, if there is no restriction, but procedures and rules are more specific. I think that the novel proposes more measures to protect human rights in police procedures, by recording these procedures and by defining precisely the boundaries and intensity of police conduct. And if anyone opposes it, it can be based on facts and videos to verify what was going on. It also seems important to me that the proposals introduce a number of measures to ensure the protection of police officers, their neighbours and those involved in the procedure against threats by the perpetrators of crimes. If we were able to read a week or two ago that the police in Gorenjska had just taken off with a military bomb, then, of course, it is also necessary to respond appropriately and act. Therefore, the deletion of Article 13 does not make sense to me. However, I would also point to the absurdity of this allegation of the extension of police powers and the introduction of disproportionate human rights interventions, paragraph 51, which, according to the new rule, provides that police officers should only use a means of enforcement that is proportionate to the way and the power to resist or attack. In the use of coercive means, police must respect the human personality and dignity of the police. If we translate this into practice, someone who walks through Tivoli will be different from the protection of property and the lives of police officers in the case of someone who threatens with a knife or carries an explosive device. And that's what this is all about. Similarly, in my view, the novel does not bring this right to stop police on people's roads, to turn their pockets without a court order, as if those who see life and also legislation from the blackest point of view wanted to show them. On the contrary, with the desire to limit today's over-used security perspective, this issue is used annually in police lines in about 20,000 cases, we want to set clear limits on the checks of persons with a view to the seizure of explosives, dangerous goods and drugs. And that's what this is all about. Therefore, I personally do not support this Article 13 in order to delete it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Police law has existed since we have the police. But just in this part of the conversation we're talking about, the use of coercive means, something hasn't changed that much. The use of physical force is being set up all the time, maybe in the last part now that they've been given some more powers in their personal examination, it's been added, but not anymore. As far as this is concerned, I am fully in favour. And you might want to touch that part that says that cops need to be given safe work when they're doing their dangerous job. Police officers are also people who have families who do not want to become disabled under the burden of family and country because of bad marriage. The new law provides police officers and protected persons with a security guarantee. Police tasks are limited in all areas in this area when the law has not yet been completed. It is therefore imperative to regulate the law of competence and the exercise of the powers of police officers. Yesterday I was just talking to two police officers who were in criminal proceedings because they said they overstepped their powers, because they examined some people for their own safety. But these people they've been looking at, they're known criminals. And when you're a cop, you can't afford not to look at someone when you know that even when you turn your back, you can send a bullet to your head. And these same criminals also have money, including good lawyers, and today these cops, when they're doing their job conscientiously, are suing in court. But here I would point out that our country should also reward our police officers, who are doing their dangerous work conscientiously and for the benefit of the citizens, and also offer them some protection. I think something will have to be written in this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to inform my colleagues and colleagues that I will not support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because, as a member of the Internal Policy Committee, I have obtained a sufficiently clear explanation of the Ministry's leadership, which is in fact what this is all about. We're talking in here today at all. It's about introducing a new professional term. This was also found by our legislative service, which we like to talk about today, or you say that she "cut off", "cut off" this law, that she had great comments. The truth is different. The written document of the Legislative and Legal Service was at the very beginning - this was the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service which we received before the debate on the Internal Policy Committee - quite critical because of some uncertainties. Here, too, I am critical to the Ministry, because in his explanations, the individual articles he proposed were too professional. You must realize that we are not all lawyers, that we are not all experts in security sciences, so some things we did not understand. However, I must say that the representatives of the ministry then made it very clear at the meeting themselves what this was about. In short, when a police officer stops someone who has not yet committed a crime, he has the right, for example, to make a mistake. Not much more than that. This man may have some spare weapons hidden inside him. This man can have explosives in his fifth. This man could have a stash of drugs on him. And this new mandate to review a person and things will now allow the police to examine those individuals for whom there is a reasonable likelihood that they are hiding something or that they are dangerous. And listen, it's only for the sake of our safety, not just the security of the police. I therefore propose that we stop blinding ourselves, because all these dilemmas on the committee have already been clarified and that we simply reject this SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we're talking about the amendment to Article 13.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u181	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u182	You'd expect the debate to go on about it, but on the part of my forerunners, it was all about hearing everything else, except that. It's like someone wouldn't stand up for police safety or anything. Even for the safety of their family members and so on. It's all written in the law. And that's what we supported. But this is not an amendment to Article 13, which someone spoke before me, but was not warned. Also that there's a new professional term. This isn't about a new professional term. It's a new police mandate. It's listed in two articles. All you have to do is read the matter. And by being a new police authority, someone else should have a problem, not me. I have to be clear, I don't have a problem with the new police authority. Let's just make it public that it's a new police mandate that someone can also say that we're instituting a police state. But as a member of this service, a former member of this service, I understand the needs of the police as well as police practice in this area, so basically with the new police authority, I have no problem. What's my problem? With the content of this new police mandate. Why? I'll explain. And what I am going to say is also based on a conversation with the four experts I had last night and I have asked them for their views on this article. All four of them said, "You know, this is necessary." I said, "What's the deal then?" Everyone said to me, "The member is impossible, the article is completely deranged." And that's what I'm basing it on myself. It is therefore a new police mandate, not a professional term, which we place during a security review and a personal investigation. The security review is one thing, so the new thing is a review of the person and things, this is a new mandate, and the next step is a personal investigation. But look! Why do I have a problem with this article? Because he's putting a cop in danger and putting citizens in danger. Any police officer who thinks a citizen has thrown something into a car will have a reason to use that police authority. He could have thrown a lighter in the car, including a phone or something. But the cop's gonna say he thought he threw something else. Then he's got another problem. But he can't look at the hidden parts. What are the hidden parts? There is a case law here, which Mr Klemenčič has explained to me. It does exist. But for this case law, what a lot of cops don't know. What's the secret part now? Locked trunk, locked trunk, locked drawer, unlocked drawer. I'll interpret it that way. You'll interpret it differently. Two police officers will interpret each other differently. So here's the problem. On the one hand, that the police will come to a speed in excess of their powers, as Mr Majhenič was talking about, they will be able to immediately overstep their powers. On the other hand, citizens are also exposed to this because the mandate is not clearly written. But I know it's hard to write. I know that, too. But at this point, it's vaguely written, and it's dangerous for cops and citizens. Therefore, our proposal is to delete this, not for any other reason. The security of the police is necessary, as you have discussed, but it's perfectly regulated in the second article. And that's what we supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! There is much to be said about this hall, and there are some things to be said, too many inconsistencies, irregularities have been made. I'm going to focus on those issues that are the most violent of spirits in the opposition. Human resources issues. Above all, Mr Gorenak, you are a great acquaintance, even in your own words, of this area. I assumed you knew a little bit about what was going on and what was going on. And the statements and statements I've heard today, I wonder how you can even look into the eyes of your colleague in the police department. I don't know if they're gonna want to talk to you seriously or anything. Of course, it is quite clear that the total number of people employed in the police force is 9,485. Of course, the Ministry has never hidden this. This is public information published in all the annual reports on the Internet and elsewhere where this can be obtained. But there are other data that are important: what is the trend in police employment, and what are the real numbers about those police officers who care about people on the streets, in the streets, in action, in criminal, in such a way and in other ways. This number, of course, is significantly different. You said she was even worse than I said. 2.712 are those officers who carry out direct operational tasks. So you can meet them on the road, in the car, going into action, chasing bombers, murderers, and so on. Only 495 are criminals. It's a very small number, and we expect a huge effet, and as I said before, only lawyers are three times more, let alone someone else. Data, which are also very important and need to be known, are publicly available in the annual reports. And the Internet is that there's a general decline in the number of police officers, including this large number you like to talk about, throughout all these years. So in 2004, 9,630 police officers, already 9,428, in 2006 9,390, in 2008 9,300 police officers. Compared to what I'm talking about, one is supposed to be 90% employment, says all those administrative tasks carried out by the police, and the other is who they are. For me, the most alarming numbers are, say, the Transport Police Station Post, which has 36 seats systemized, occupied 21. That means 58% employment, not 90%. Police station Ljubljana-Center, systemization of 149 cities, occupation of 101 places, that is 67% employment, not 90%. Then the Logatec Police Station, systemization 19, occupation 13, that's 68% employment, not 90%. Transport police station Celje, system 51, seizure 35, that's 68% employment, not 90%. Police station Sežana, systemization 36, employment 25.69%, not 90%. These are real numbers the police are dealing with. There's so many real people in the field. And that's why we're going into this emergency procedure. True, opposition colleagues have repeatedly stressed today how it is possible that nothing has been said about this issue in the previous term. Nothing was said about the problem, since it was even desirable not to discuss the problem. But of course, we're not ostrich politicians, we can't run away from the problem by putting our heads in the sand. Just because it wasn't about the problem doesn't mean there's no problem. And if the problem was not discussed, it is certain that the problem was not solved. And that's why we've come up with a situation that's catastrophic today. And, look, I didn't say that this is just a matter of the previous government, even a few of the previous ones are quite co-responsible in this matter. Of course, what we are doing with the amendment of the law is the first step, the urgent step is, as the Secretary of State said in a graphic way, the ceasefire, something we need to do right now to not burn everything. But then there are new steps. Also what you were wondering, Mr Gorenak, what all these people, all of these 6,000 or how many, are working in the places that the state is paying for. I'm asking exactly the same questions as you. How is it possible that in the last few years no one has noticed that thousands of people are sitting in chairs at police stations at tables instead of moving them to the field? I agree. That's the problem. And that's why we've been doing it, right now in these short six months, which is run by the Ministry itself: the procedures for reorganising the Ministry, reorganising the police, reviewing the systematisation, rationalising the work of the police, the ministry, the police at both the state and regional levels. Of course, we are taking action, and only all these measures together will fix this situation in the long run. But we're starting with that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u185	Madam Secretary! Please limit yourselves to the debate on the amendment, but not to the general debate. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u186	Okay, Mr. President, then I'll proceed later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much. At the same time, I thank you, President, for the correctness you have shown. All debaters in this Chamber shall be subject to the same rules, for sure. That's why I'm going to say one sentence. In view of the implementation of the Minister, I agree with everything and, therefore, we wholeheartedly support all these five articles talking about the human resources issue. There's no problem with that. The problem is with the thirty-five articles that open up some other things, and in reorganizing extremely much happiness, more than I've ever had.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 21st A-point of the agenda - this is the defence proposal of the law on amendments and amendments to the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the urgent procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were introduced into the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia - a reduced procedure submitted by Mag. Radovan Žerjav, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia - urgent procedure submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in the course of its discussion of those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure, in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, would be guided by a bill submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the proposer of draft laws for supplementary explanations. We're expecting government representatives. Apparently, the government's representatives are not in the National Assembly at this time. The text shall be given by the drafter of the parliamentary law, Magi. Radovan Žerjav. Please, Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia provided guarantees to banks for the indebtedness of economic operators. Article 6 of the Act defines economic operators as persons organised in status form under the law governing companies established in the Republic of Slovenia. However, cooperatives as economic operators are not regulated by the Companies Act, but by the Cooperatives Act. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u191	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u192	which refers to several provisions of the Company Act on individual issues, but does not define cooperatives as economic societies. [[...]] Therefore, Article 6 of the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia provides that loans to cooperatives from the guarantee scheme are excluded. Since cooperatives as economic operators operate on the market under the same conditions as companies, practically in all activities, from agriculture, processing, trade and other service activities, we have assessed in the SLS Group that it is necessary to supplement the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. We have tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia because we believe that the consequences of the financial and economic crisis affect cooperatives as well as other economic operators. The identification of cooperatives from the range of possible beneficiaries of the measure under consideration is not in line with the requirement of undistorted or undistorted competition, with cooperatives consistently considering the Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Community as an undertaking within the meaning of the rules of the European Communities on State aid. Compared to the number of all active companies, the number of cooperatives is less than 1%, so extending the range of borrowers within the meaning of the adopted law would not require significantly greater funding. Involvement in the measure would, however, ensure equal opportunities for cooperatives to carry out their activities and thus increase the efficiency of public spending. The relatively small share of cooperatives in the total number of economic operators does not mean that the contribution of cooperatives to individual activities is small or even negligible. At this point, I have to stress in particular the exceptional importance of cooperatives for agriculture. As we have pointed out many times before, the current government forgets too much about agriculture, and the fact that cooperatives are excluded from the circle of lenders for whom guarantees are provided under the guarantee scheme is evidence that the Government is forgetting this area. The importance of cooperatives is also reflected in the latest available statistics from the 2007 annual reports. Cooperatives in agriculture represent 23.83% of the total number of economic operators who are legal persons. However, almost half of the total revenue from companies and cooperatives in this activity has been contributed. Measures which do not guarantee the equal participation of cooperatives in lending under the guarantee scheme are therefore thoughtless. They also affect agriculture, which, due to its long production cycle, has a much more specific need for credit than other activities. However, it also indirectly addresses the situation of banks which have a different share of cooperatives among their committees. In view of the level playing field between cooperatives and the adequate protection of the interests of the cooperative members and cooperatives, it is essential that economic operators, as borrowers, whose obligations a guarantee is issued, also be covered by cooperatives. I propose that this proposal of the law be supported in order to ensure that all economic operators, regardless of their cooperative or other legal form, receive equal support in overcoming the financial economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! On 14 May 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal of the law as a working mother, under the agenda item Consideration of draft laws pursuant to Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposals for the amendment of the Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure, the proposal by Member Radovan Žerjav, and the government proposal for the amendment of the same law were forwarded to the Committee as material for this item on the agenda. Opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service were forwarded to the Committee with comments on Article 1 of the draft Law and on all articles of the draft law. At the time of its consideration of that item, the Committee decided, in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, that the draft laws should be dealt with under the same item of the agenda at that meeting of the Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also decided at this meeting to draw up an additional proposal for a law on the basis of a government proposal for a law. Pursuant to Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee further decided that the draft government law, which will form the basis for the preparation of the amended proposal of the law, should not include Article 1 of the draft law, since this content is equally governed by Article 1 of the Government proposal of the law. On the basis of the decisions thus adopted at the same meeting, the Committee held a second examination of the Government proposal for legislation under urgent procedure. The Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this proposal. In the debate, the Committee agreed with the proposed inclusion of cooperatives in the range of creditors for whom guarantees are issued, which was the content of both the Member State and the Government's proposal for a law. In the course of further discussion, the cooperatives referred to the provision of Article 3 relating to the regulation of restrictions on the operation of banks that obtain a guarantee quota. These provisions should only apply to the prohibition of the granting or renewal of loans to companies operating under the Company Act, their management and related persons, but do not provide for such a blacklist in the field of cooperatives. From this point of view, a proposal was made to consider the need for an amendment to remedy this possible legal void in the case of cooperatives until the second reading of the law at the meeting of the National Assembly. In the discussion below, members of the Committee paid attention to the level of fees for creditors of credit rating class B and C, which are substantially increasing compared to the law in force. It was pointed out that the law, which, according to the Committee, is one of the most important measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis, in this way loses its original purpose. The introduction of elements of normal banking practice into crisis relationships and significantly higher premiums for the C-class creditors most in need from this point of view represent an amendment to the original solutions applied on a proposal from the Committee. On the basis of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4 of the Government's proposal for a law and adopted this amendment as part of the definition of the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 3. The Committee adopted all the articles of the bill below. The amendments adopted are included in the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. In view of the decisions taken by the Committee, the legislative procedure for the draft law being sent has made sense and the Committee, pursuant to Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has also adopted a conclusion that this proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. This Decision will be decided by the National Assembly on the basis of Article 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when it concludes its consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia following their procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today's amendment to the Guarantee Scheme Act first takes into account the State Council's comment and includes cooperatives in the guarantee scheme. This fulfils the Government's obligation to include cooperatives in the guarantee scheme when we first accepted it. Article 13 is added, which will make it possible to apply this guarantee scheme to those economic operators who, due to their over-indebtedness, no longer have quality guarantees and can only be included in the guarantee scheme and which will be able to rent slightly more expensive loans, but the guarantees under this law will also be applicable to them. This increases the number of beneficiaries of this aid. The guarantee scheme acquires its utility. With the addition of Article 17a, we are taking extremely severe sanctions in the event that an infringement has been found to have occurred in the award and later the use of credits secured by a State guarantee under this guarantee scheme. The greatest sanction is also envisaged for the nullity of contracts. However, we estimate that the biggest controversy is caused by Article 13a, which today is also being amended by coalition parties. The controversy is, in particular, an understanding of Article 13a and of the amendment - not the one that has already been tabled, and not the one that has now been corrected - we are looking for solutions that will fully limit the reprogramming of disputed loans, while not restricting banks in their business and the basic mission of the bank, that is, lending. In fact, if we do not accept the amendment of coalition parties, this guarantee scheme will not come to life and we will not be able to help companies in difficulty in the way of state guarantees. In particular, it is not because the banks will not apply for an auction for the award of guarantee quotas under the guarantee scheme. Why, though, should we limit in the first paragraph of the new Article 13a that, in the context of their business, i.e. the whole business, they should not lend or renew loans, which were also granted for the purchase of businesses. Without exception, even those that can make a good investment for the bank and are excellent loans from a banking point of view. Even where the takeover was carried out in full compliance with the legislation, these are successful companies today that care about their development and are not in crisis. Why would the bank limit itself to a couple of EUR 100 million of state guarantees, but if their loans, either for the purchase or internal consolidation of corporate ownership, exceed billions of euros. Of course, we have the opportunity to somehow force banks in the country's predominant ownership, but this is probably not business and not marketable. However, it is likely that in the past a number of acquisitions have taken place and have been carried out correctly. The acquisitions were probably also financed by loans approved by different banks, both in the majority ownership of the country and others with a completely different ownership structure. Or will we, for the sake of the good EUR 200 million in the guarantee scheme, not at all to be used for the reprogramming of credits intended for the purchase of companies - this is stated in Article 8 of the Guarantee Scheme Act, and this article does not change - exclude banks with financial potential to assist in lending the economy for the purposes defined in Article 7 of the Guarantee Scheme Act. This is mainly for the financing of operating assets and investments and for the completion of these. This is also the case in the basic law on the guarantee scheme, which does not change the law. This is the basic purpose of the guarantee scheme as one in a series of measures taken by the Government and the National Assembly to help the real sector dig up from this economic and financial and social distress. There is an increasing number of unemployed people, and this, of course, increases social distress. Unless we soon open this guarantee scheme for crediting production and new investments, we can expect additional problems in the real sector in the future. Let me reiterate that the amendments do not support so-called Taiwanese loans or wild privatisation. On the contrary, the banks will be obliged to notify the Ministry of Finance if they wish to renew the loans they have been granted to purchase shares. However, we are convinced that today we do not know exactly how much and what value such credits are issued. Social Democrats will adopt amendments to the Guarantee Scheme Act, including the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I haven't seen anyone here since the government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u199	Don't worry about it, buddy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u200	I am very concerned because the government is also proposing a law, but there is no one here and this is a little funny or not funny, in fact it illustrates the efficiency of the government in dealing with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. [[...]] The basic measure proposed by a number of institutions, which has also been agreed by policy in Slovenia, is that we should overcome this credit crunch. Banks sit on money, don't want to borrow it because they're afraid. That is why this law on the guarantee scheme was prepared. A law whereby the State would take a stand for banks' backs in order to be more boldly credited or even credited to economic operators for their development projects, for their operations and, finally, for the reprogrammes of loans that companies need to complete certain investments, expansion and so on. Indeed, companies have been in large credit activities in the past period, economic growth has been optimistic, companies have invested, they have had a lot of plans. And in a moment, this debt flow from banks was cut off because of this crisis. Here it is essential to help businesses and to allow state-guaranteed banks to credit these companies further. This was the basic idea of this guarantee bill. Here were the details in which we did not reach agreement, and I also think that this solution to auction credits for lower grades is not in place, as this has led to a number of companies being in lower ratings for non-payment by their business partners in a chain in which they are not participating on their own account, on the fault of others due to the crisis. So we also support this purpose and support the law to include cooperatives as beneficiaries of guarantees for their obligations and purposes. Of course, this law has only one weakness, such as - or two weaknesses. The first fundamental weakness is that we are still talking about it instead of doing it. As far as I know, no State guarantee under this law and regulation provided for in this law has been approved. And it's actually a shame, it's outrageous, it's a diversion to the economy and no, please say again that the former government is to blame. I hope that because this law doesn't work in life, it's not really the former government's fault - or is it? We'll hear from you later. So this is the first fundamental weakness of this marriage. Another fundamental weakness is the intention that can be understood from the amendment that coalition groups wish to introduce into the provisions of this law. This is that under certain conditions State guarantees are also granted for repurchase programmes. I will, in principle, avoid the expression of manager's takeover today or Taiwan's takeovers, it doesn't matter at all, for takeovers. This is said to allow State guarantees for equity consolidation loans to complete certain acquisitions and so on under the amendment of the coalition. Your Honor, what does this have to do with anything? What does this have to do with credit crunches - needed by Slovenian companies for business, operation, development and investment? Nothing! It's just a cover-up for those couples who "stuck" together with the banks' boards and, of course, they can't get out of this trap. They have taken loans under the assumption that forever beautiful and healthy times will grow, that eternal stocks will grow, that business results will be great and that through the cash flow of the company taken over they will include a loan. Now the matter has collapsed and they need help. All right, they've calculated and God help them, not: coalition help them! And here you are actually doing this; you are doing, you are helping these individuals who, in cooperation with those responsible at the banks, have received loans, probably under more favourable conditions. That is why we will not support this amendment in the parliamentary group. But we support the basic intent of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Scheme Act extends the range of beneficiaries in the form of State guarantees for credits to cooperatives that, like companies, have a difficult approach to credit due to the financial crisis. This corrects the flaw that was made at the first reading of this law, but unfortunately I would also like to remind us that it is precisely because of the manoeuvres when it was found too late that cooperatives were not included in this law, we experienced a few days' delay due to the veto launched by the State Council. And I think that some damage has also been done here, not least in the sense that the Guarantee Scheme Act could begin to be implemented in practice substantially earlier, which seems to me to be an extremely irresponsible move by those who thus wanted to achieve their objectives. In addition to this, the proposed amendments to the Act also address the issues of creditors who cannot provide for quality guarantees to be secured by supplementing the annual guarantee fee provision adequately, in accordance with the provisions of the European Community's temporary framework, which defines the criteria for measures to ensure the common market. The provision thus far setting out the minimum possible premium for each credit rating class shall be supplemented by a provision on the amount of the premium, depending on the quality of the insurance. This also allows credit access to borrowers who are unable to provide quality credit insurance. The third type of amendments or additions to the law relate to ensuring the purposeful use of credits with State guarantees. The law prohibits the lending of so-called management purchases of equity shares in companies both for new loans and for the refinancing or reprogramming of existing loans or other financial support in terms of improving credit conditions for loans. The amendment of the law also extends to other resources used by banks as part of their operations by banks in their operations by the prohibition of lending managers' buy-backs from loans secured by the State guarantee. The fourth area of amendment and amendment of the law concerns sanctions for infringements of the law, including for us the very important nullity of the contract for contracts already concluded, unless the found violation of the law is remedied within a reasonable time. In addition to the nullity of the contract, the law also obliges banks to repay to the State the amounts paid together with the legal late payment of interest in order to relieve the State of the imposition of claims and contractual penalties for banks of 5% of the principal amount to be paid by the banks at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of a violation of the law, regulation or contract. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the adoption of the proposed law, which has been improved by the amendments of the parent working body in terms of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. We also support the amendment of coalition parties. We are talking about a new amendment, which we consider to be significantly better than the one that has been circulating in the past days. We therefore believe that the issue of the prohibition of the granting of loans and the renewal of loans of so-called tycoon credits for all cases in which proceedings are conducted before the supervisory authorities is also properly regulated. Therefore, if the infringement of the acquisition or market of securities has been initiated, i.e. by areas covered by the Securities Market Agency and the Office of Competition Protection, then banks of such credits may not approve of the guarantee scheme. We believe that such a solution is appropriate, good, better than the former, which exercised discretion by the supervisory councils, and we believe that sufficient safeguards have been provided. For, as we know, it has been repeatedly said that since these institutions have led new people, namely Soršak and Žugelj, they have been active in this area. I hope you are so active that you will prevent all such so-called tycoon loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today it will and has already been one of the more frequently spoken terms, the concept of late. In the DeSUS Group, we quite agree with the fact that the Guarantee Scheme Act is late. However, we do not think that this is the sole and only fault of the Government, nor are there any other reasons why it is worth remembering. But that doesn't excuse us being late. Apart from Members and Members of Parliament also condemn the economy, this is also condemned by the banks, because the activities that should be carried out under this Guarantee Scheme Act cannot be moved out of the city. That's not good for anyone. Even if it made someone feel good about themselves, because someone who suggested it failed to do it the way he wanted it to, and at the time he wanted to do it. In the multitude of measures, those that have been taken and those that have not yet been proposed, this measure has been assessed as the one that is, in a sense, the best, which could be the most effective, but which has to a large extent been broken down. It is also a law that has undergone extremely rapid changes, the first of its opponents, and that is probably why it is so complicated. Let us recall that the first stumbling block was missing because there was no involvement of agricultural cooperatives or cooperatives in general, and we did not object to this by Members and Members, but opposed to stopping the entire scheme at the expense of one partial interest which could be regulated in parallel, even if the guarantee scheme law worked normally. So, this, we call this selfishness, is being avenged today in such a way that the economy is so much harder to cope with its efforts, that confidence is lost in banks as well, and that banks do not benefit from what is best, the most effective, the most appropriate. In the DeSUS Group, we consider any delay to be unjustifiable. There has been some embarrassment, let's face it, also around the regulation that should regulate these things in a more timely manner, and today there is some embarrassment about the European Commission's concerns, even if we do not take all the concerns into account and those who are classified as C credit ratings will be punished on this account, as has already been mentioned by government representatives. While we in the DeSUS Group support this amendment of the law because we believe it is right to include cooperatives, and because we believe it is right to do everything possible to implement this scheme as soon as possible. We will not only support the law, we will also support the harmonised amendment, and we note that we did not support the SDS amendment on the Finance Committee, which is strongly opposed to any exceptions being allowed, even if they are now better regulated than they were then. So we, too, will support this amendment because we believe that without this amendment, which we are now putting together coalitionly, we would not be able to resolve this cramp in which the guarantee scheme came into existence. So if this amendment is not adopted, there will be no interest of banks in these guarantee schemes and there will be no money for the economy. Therefore, with this purpose and not because, as some have tried to point out, they would support certain Taiwanese acquisitions, so that they would allow the economy to operate normally and that the policy would not be too party and ideologically interfering with the decisions of bank experts everywhere. That is why we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister. Too late or not, today we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. Good but not good? The answer is, of course, that the expression or content of the cooperative has been extended to Article 1 of this Law. And such a law as is given in this content, or it would be a marriage made by a mag. Radovan Žerjav, or the Government, I am talking about the proposal, we will support the Slovenian National Party, but we will not support any amendments. It is said at home that we would not all be smart to read, but what the laws say in the explanations, or we would adopt such a law as the Government gave in article 3 in the basic form, or either throw article 3 out. I do not understand if the Government grants Article 3 to first-time banks, to those who receive a guarantee quota, that they may not, in the context of their operations, lend loans to buy out the entire company by a member of the supervisory authorities. It prohibits that it must not renew loans or otherwise amend the terms of the loans granted to buy-out companies by management authorities that prohibit the temporary redemption of the share of companies that prohibit the granting of guarantees for loans to other financial institutions which are intended to buy out the whole of the company, and by amendment all these prohibitions - one or the other - because we know how to read, because the other is very beautiful, the latter is very well-designed - but at the same time it says: "but we can still allow the renewal of the loans..." In our own words, because this will prevent the damage to the bank - no matter how it is written in the original or in the federal amendment - which would have occurred if the loan had not been restored. Or, to put it domestically: Barovic cheated on the bank and pushed the bank into such a situation that, regardless of the guarantee scheme, it can still give me another loan because if I don't, the bank will be compromised. This is purely domestically stated and understood. But that's not how we can go. Either you cut article 3 out, the one the government has proposed into the basic law, or you withdraw the amendments. If the amendments are accepted, of course, in the Slovenian National Party absolutely such - I must say that these are already little lumparia - we will not support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In my previous appearance on behalf of the proposer, I focused in particular on the issue of the involvement or non-involvement of cooperatives in the guarantee scheme system, as the proposal for a law of the SLS Group only addressed this neglected issue. In the view of the Group, I cannot go beyond this problem either, but this time I would only like to express the satisfaction that the Government has also acknowledged its error and realized that the problem of solving the economic crisis needs to be addressed more broadly. All too often, we forget that agriculture is experiencing the same or worse fate in these times of crisis as companies and companies. In short, the crisis has hit everything and not just some. The government promises additional measures in this area. I must say, we are expecting them unexpectedly in the Slovenian People's Party. The second reason why the Government proposed amendments to the guarantee scheme law is to ensure the purposeful use of credits that banks can give to businesses under this law. The purpose of the law is, therefore, to prohibit banks obtaining State guarantees of all types of re-financing or renewal of loans where they are intended to finance the purchases of undertakings by the administration and related persons. This is the intention of the proposer in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Absolutely unacceptable would be the unthinkable consequence of a lack of law under which a tycoon would be guaranteed by the State for their takeover. I don't think anyone's ever seen anything like this before. And when everything has shown that Slovenian politics has at least unified its position in this perversion, the coalition is trying to bring a solution through the back door, which legitimizes the latter. State guarantees or guarantees of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to the tycoon for discarded after the management purchases! So now we will guarantee all citizens and citizens for their purchases. We have never experienced such a thing in this country! The third paragraph, which allows the possibility of State guarantees of managers' buy-ins, says that "the loan is permissible to be recovered if it prevents damage to the bank." What kind of damage? This is the previous amendment, which has now been slightly amended, supplemented, but nevertheless through the back door it allows for these guarantees to be used for those loans or for refinancing, redefining these loans. While Minister Matej Lahovnik threatens to resign if the guarantee scheme law allows for reprogrammes of management loans, members of his party table an amendment allowing this. This same minister speaks of the credibility of a policy which he advocates in principle. Is this the minister who, as a professor at PTC Economics School, produced a pioneering study of the company’s manager’s purchase? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Whoever listened to me yesterday remembers my words about complete memory amnesia after every election of both sides of politics and the fact that every four years we are born again completely innocent and innocent. Bless us and help our country! In the SLS Group, we strongly oppose the perversion of some of the proposed solutions. We will support the law in its content, which will absolutely prevent the granting of reprogramming or the renewal of credits for the financing of company buy-backs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is an important anti-crisis law, intervention, which must, of course, allow businesses access to EUR 1.2 billion by the state of guaranteed loans as soon as possible. And at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will definitely support this law. Nor do we see any serious problem in the fact that the Ministry, when it has found that the law does not work in practice, is there a problem in introducing, correcting and remedying the error immediately. That is the case, for the wise men make amends, and the others are condemned to repeat them, and that is certainly worse. I am also pleased that, in the coalition and in general in Parliament, we have reached a high consensus on this law, and in particular that we have also corrected the article concerning guarantees for cooperatives and thus symbolically recognised agriculture as a valuable, important editor and custodian of this landscape, that, of course, Slovenian cooperatives are an important component in this segment and that, despite their different organisation, they also play an important role as an economic society, particularly in rural areas. Of course, the law also proposes that companies that do not have a quality assurance that is consistent with normal practice should also have access to state guarantees and credits, so it is also right for those who have a poor rating of course - on the reasons why this would certainly be a lot to say and distribute - that they have the possibility of lending to be classified in three groups, A, B and C, that, of course, the costs of commissions move depending on what their ratings are, from 0.4 to 0.55 to 0.8%. Certainly the biggest dilemma and controversy is this law in the work now being regulated again by so-called Article 13a in order to limit the reprogramming and renewal of loans intended for the redemption of undertakings by administrations and related persons, both called management acquisitions and related loans. Yesterday we heard that in this country almost a thousand such acquisitions and purchases have been carried out in the last 15 years, and I am glad that this amendment finds the solution not to throw all purchases and acquisitions into the same basket, that we were able to praise and give recognition where the value of companies has been qualitatively, honestly assessed, where owners of new and existing managers have also set their assets, their reputation, pride, back and business decisions, but unfortunately - this is not good and I also condemn the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia's Club - that certain stories have evolved in a direction that is not the time for Slovenia and that this serious time of economic and economic crisis has further revealed and underlined them. Therefore, it seems to us that this compromise solution, which is coordinated in the coalition, is that those who are at any rate suspected to have gone wrong or untransparent in these procedures of borrowing credits so that there are no new loans for them in the largest two state-owned banks, which are the majority of the country, the extension, the reprogramming or the hiring of new loans. I think that, as far as this is concerned, we have achieved some principled and broad consensus in Parliament. This seems important, necessary, and good to me. That is why we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We will also support the amendments that law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] repairs, however, improve. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. In the debate, I am putting Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 3 and the amendment of the coalition parties, namely, you have received at the table an amendment to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme and also an amendment to Article 3. I would like to point out that the parliamentary groups have not been able to announce the time for discussion, and therefore the debate of Members will be limited to five minutes, so that they can apply the fifth paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I propose that each of the panellists and the MPs will be able to discuss the amendment only once. It's a legitimate method. That's my suggestion. He's not to be discussed. I would only ask for one more thing, dear colleagues and fellow Members. Because we have the same - Mr Tanko, Mr Kontic, please. Since we have the same situation at point 21b and point c, if you don't mind, we would only vote once for all three points, but if someone objects, please let me express it and we will vote separately for this point which is. Doesn't he mind? So you want to take it for each other. Good. At the moment, we are voting that, in accordance with Article 67(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, any declared debater may only discuss an amendment once. So it's up to you. We're voting. The assembly is not concluded at this time. Since there is no possibility for the assembly to be immediately concluded, I am withdrawing this proposal as President on a procedural basis. We're moving on to the debate. I put to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the coalition to the debate. Each debater will be limited to five minutes so that he can come forward more than once. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. There's going to be a chance to report it. There's not going to be a problem. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u212	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! True, the banking system is the blood circulation of a system, if the circulation does not work, individual parts of the economy are unproductive. And that was now to some extent to be seen. It is true that I am very happy today that this law, the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, is finally on the table. And given that a large number of executive buyouts took place in the previous term and, of course, in the previous ones, and most in the previous one, I estimate that this law is at least four years too late on the table. And at the expense of that, I will support this marriage. I do not know, therefore, how some of the debaters have already assessed the amendments of SD, Resa, LDS and DeSUS, whether they have read it or not. From it it is noted that the amendment accurately excludes any further fraud or so-called manager buyouts. I even say it makes it impossible, and it would be very nice to read that amendment again, which I will certainly support. Of course, there is no logic to support the SDS amendment, and I politely ask you to read this amendment, which is officially referred to as the amended amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I think if not, in the light of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u215	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u216	It is also the responsibility of the law, which we will deal with later, that we are a little unrealistic. [[...]] We are not serious because in the same breath we say how bad it is that, with the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Scheme Act, we are late, on the other hand, we have two proposals and finally come to an agreement that was acceptable to all, for all, and finally to a bill drafted by the Government by Article 3. And now, after all these claims that we are in a hurry, we are changing again. No! No! In the Slovenian National Party, we will not, I stress - we will not, support any more amendments. Let's be serious. Not with the amendment to bring the law back to its original form. Thank God that the government has done something, including Article 3, such as is stated in the law, let us leave it and accept it. We don't need any change at this point. Or we can throw Article 3 out, and we can talk about the law that was tabled by our colleague, Mr Žerjav. And hurry, because of the content, but not to look for gaps and holes. It's unhygienic that we got the amendment that fixed the amendment a few minutes ago on the table. I was in a hurry to read it, but I can read it, so I read one line, and sometimes I get a third one. However, if you read the explanation, we are at the same time, including with the new amendment, by means of the proposed new amendment, the measure prohibiting the conclusion of banking transactions which are intended to buy out shares or shares of companies by members of the management boards of these companies and associated persons limits only to cases where there has been a breach of the law in the proceedings. First of all, the same exceptions as the original amendment - which you changed, I don't know why, perhaps because of the threat of the economic minister - are the same story. Don't do this. Let's at least be honest with people. The government has drawn up a law that we have before us. We are talking about the draft original form without amendments, if paragraph 3 is, let us accept it as it is written. No redundancies. Or let's throw him out and adopt the Guarantee Scheme Act. If any amendment that substantially changes the content of the law, let people know, substantially changes the content of the law, adopted, we will absolutely protest in the Slovenian National Party against such a way of working. Now we're really not being honest with people anymore. I understand that there are problems, colleagues understand that there are problems, however, ladies and gentlemen! We can't do this now if I or someone with their poof have done a lot of damage to the bank if they don't give him another poof to get that first poof back. We can't "shoe" now! No matter how much we talk about this marriage! And we wrap it all up in a cellophane, or people are so stupid or ignorant that they don't know. You know they know. Now we have one law that is acceptable, and we have heard, in words, views that are acceptable to all of us, to you and to you. And let us cast the amendments aside and adopt such a law, and let us start to do for the good of what this law provides! Any amendment will be adopted, I tell you, there will be a new chaos. And in this case, I think the Government, which I support in the basic law, if it's fair, will also confirm. Thank you very much. We will not support any amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u218	Because of our indiscretion, we have not been able to limit our discussions, we can do this for ourselves. I'm warning you this option because it still exists. However, I would simply like to say, repeat that I will be the amendment and then the law, if adopted, will support, as our parliamentary group does, and draw attention to some phenomenon that is now visible and understood through the terminology used by those who follow the adoption of this amendment. Let me remind you that words have been made about how to deal with perversion, how to deal with repudiated, perverted actions and initiatives and the logic of things are, therefore, those who propose such an amendment are depraved. So they have no good intentions and must therefore be condemned, perhaps even worse. However, I do not think that such terminology is a business terminology - but we are now talking about business, we are talking about how finance will be handled in Slovenia and how this will affect the real sector and, as a result, employment, social situation and everything else that can be derived from it. Let me also recall that, at least after my information and even after my contacts with individual experts, with economic associations, with bankers and so on, these proposals for the amendment of this law, have experienced support and are afraid that this would not happen, because this will mean a further contraction, both financially and in the real sector. I would hardly agree to call them all perverses, perverses, and even more moralistic concepts that could be touched in a rational debate, do not "feed" in addition to my judgment. However, the coalition has succeeded, we have already mentioned, to harmonise, although there have been considerable reflections between us, and concerns, to agree that with this amendment we do not give any support for any abuses, but at the same time condemn all abuses. At the same time, when we propose, we also propose better regulation of this exception, which was originally envisaged, which was later withdrawn and which is now more taxive and more beautifully listed and will be easier to carry out. It's not such a soft definition, I'd say, of these prohibitions, as it used to be. We estimate that we are actually on our way to consensus, to try to avoid any damage that someone seems to have done to an individual or a single bath, but that when we take a closer look, they could cause a lot of damage and negative consequences to all Slovenes. And let's face it, we don't just think about it in Slovenia, we think about it somewhere else, we also react elsewhere, and what everyone who does and tries to do it can't be compared to perverts. So, we will make sure that this consensus within the coalition endures, we will support the amendment and the law, but please, at the same time, that such moralization by those who once supported ultra neoliberal ideas would withdraw to the foyers so that it will not appear here just as clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. We are therefore discussing Article 3 and the amendments to Article 3. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Therefore, the main purpose of the novel Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is to direct loans that will be paid on the basis of this scheme for certain purposes, namely for investments, for turnover and for business development activities. In addition to these solutions, which are now proposed in the basic amendment of the law and in the amendment of the coalition, we have at the same time solved three other problems. In accordance with the State Council initiative, we have also introduced cooperatives that were previously absent because they are not subject to the regulation of the GNI. Then we expanded the insurance, so, if the company doesn't have enough quality credit insurance, by the original, now valid law, you couldn't get it under this scheme, now it's going to get a little bit more expensive these loans. And then we also imposed sanctions, saying that the breach of contracts will mean that the contracts under this credit scheme are null and void. This brings us closer to European regulation. We hope that this will also give us the proper confirmation of the European Commission's Competitiveness Directorate. The negotiations in this area are still ongoing. If I briefly touch solely on these restrictions, which were the purpose of the amendment to the law, it is said that the intentional use of funds, I would say that the amendment of the coalition is meaningful, which clearly points to the part of the funds involved in the small-scale lending of redemption loans, in order to fake regulation, in order to build regulations that did not have sufficient sanctions in law, and now these sanctions come through the side door through this law into the regulation itself. If the High Council found a solution to make this more systematic, then it would probably be easier to implement anti-crisis measures and at the same time resolve these problems that have arisen through the process of the so-called exit of the country from the economy that has ended with the current tycoon crisis. It's one of the experiments. I think the coalition has imposed this by sanctioning those attempts that have apparently violated the rules. If it's even stronger, the system could fail. So, I think we're going to have to take some kind of diplomatic approach, too, if we want as much as we can without stress for the financial system to come out of this entire bench. Thank you very much. This is the first time I suggest you support the amendment and the second time: to support the amendment of the law and to support the amendment of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I admit that the idea of voting on a law without amendments is very attractive, and who would not actually like to introduce a balance sheet and actually prevent in absolute terms any acquisition, any purchase of shares within companies. But if we take a sober view and listen to the argument of those who are familiar with the financial markets, on economic principles, on the effects of such or other laws, it must be acknowledged that the amendment to Article 3 proposed by the coalition is optimal. Optimal, because it actually limits the possibility of such acquisitions and limits them in accordance with certain principles, which are the principles of the rule of law, the principles of fairness, the principles that prevent anyone involved or suspected, there is sufficient reason to suspect illegal operation with regard to the principle of the Securities Market Agency and competition in order to prevent such manoeuvre. And this is a big step that is more important than that first attempt to leave to the control councils the discretionary right to determine when certain lending can be possible. It would not be right and it would not be right to criminalise management in general without any specific criteria. And this amendment introduces criteria that are very useful. For all those managers' purchases or acquisitions where there is a suspicion that they are acting against those principles and against the principles of healthy and fair competition, this amendment and the law give the full possibility to prevent this. And this is a crucial question of why the amendment is useful. On the other hand, the like, radical form or radical approach: let all managers be punished, it can lead to some serious consequences for banks and businesses. That's what we want to avoid. We would not want to rush if it turns out to be necessary in the future, we will have courage and we will propose it. But for now, it is worth being overthinking, acting gradually, and allowing, above all, problematic acquisitions to be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I must say, my fellow Members and colleagues, that this new amendment, which we have drafted in the coalition, has not been looked at at at all. In my presentation of the views of the members of the groups, I have seen that some are still speaking and criticising an amendment that has been or has been spoken much about in recent days, do not concentrate, do not look, but devote themselves to this amendment, which has been drafted today. Criticisms have also been expressed in many, including the Minister of Lahovnik, based on the solutions offered by the amendment, which is no longer here at all today. From this point of view, I would like to say that you know that really, among those who are most loudly exposed, the party has requested that, if I say so, the reprogramming of so-called tycoon loans be prohibited. Here we thought very seriously, and here we think very, very much now. And I am sure that this amendment that is ready, but it follows something that some who think more about how to get to power when a country on the brink of collapse may be, than how to help a healthy part of the economy may not want to think. However, we have listened to a number of non-governmental economic experts, a warning from Banka Slovenije, Šuštersič, Masten and others who were very close to your options in the past, who have collaborated with your government, who have been very critical of this, and the Bank of Slovenia has also been very critical of the fact that too restrictive emphasis on this could have caused Slovenia great problems, irreparable consequences and would not have occurred because we all want to. This is for the guarantee scheme to take effect as soon as possible and, in fact, to break up with the so-called bank spasm. And some people don't really want that. The one who insists today that this amendment is not a good one is what you want. You want an emergency, you want a healthy economy not to come to terms. I will read again, perhaps you have not read: 'Banks shall not', I stress, 'give credit to buy up shares and business shares of companies by members and businesses or to renew or otherwise modify such loans if they are being subjected to infringements, abuse of the market in financial assets, abuse of the takeover law, abuse of the competition field', and so on, all that the Securities Market Agency and the Office of Competition Protection are doing. And if they're doing well, then they're probably running these procedures. And, as I am aware, a number of procedures are under way in this regard. And it's enough to keep the procedures running. That is to say, if these procedures are ongoing, not if legal decisions have already been concluded or arranged. And in this sense, it seems to me that it's simply perverse not to read this amendment and not to take the whole picture that's going on in this area. I would like to say something else about banks and Banka Slovenije. I must say that banks in Slovenia do not appear to be active and do not take responsibility for solving the crisis. Caution and conservative approach and restraint are always present in banks, but unfortunately I cannot get rid of the impression that there is more to it, something that we cannot understand or obviously do not have all the information. The blame for the credit crunch is to be transferred to the government or the opposition is primarily looking for the guilt here. I believe that a large part of this blame is borne by banks, including those with a majority share of the country. The arrogance of the supervisory boards and administrations is being seen and it is becoming increasingly clear that, in fact, banks and their administrations are being blackmailed in a certain way by their passiveness in this area. And we can only ask ourselves why.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I also agree with this finding of how urgent it is to launch the guarantee scheme as soon as possible and to lend in particular to the healthy part of the economy. However, I cannot help but say that three months have been lost in the process of adopting this legislation. Due to inadequacy, the law was being built up, complemented. And we are no better today, because the amendment to the amendment rains. Of course, we have witnessed all day long the transfiguration and conversion of words, for such a situation in Goodyear we have named the one who has changed his mind many times during the day, "Joel spinning wheel", and perhaps at the first point, how things will turn out. This morning we listened to how disastrous it would be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u227	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u228	something to do without the approval of the European Union, and we do not yet have the European Commission's agreement on the guarantee scheme. [[...]] So, completely, now, suddenly this morning, the European Commission, the European Union, the relationship with Brussels, is extremely important. It has been mentioned that about €2 billion is spent on reprogramming credits. When I did the math, it's for 10 Sava Tires, that's about 17,000 employees. I wonder if it's going to be within what we're going to lend if it's even within that 17,000 and more employees. In addition to the lost time and inadequacy, there were some concepts in the text that are very stretchy. And who could explain the good name or what is a Taiwanese loan or more important - what is a significant damage to the bank. Is reprogramming a single loan really such a damage to one bank's business? And then what is the role of its supervisor, Banka Slovenije, that this bank operates so heavily on the edge that by not reprogramming a tycoon loan, the entire money mass is threatened? It is also mentioned that the Ministry of Finance should be informed. What if it said the Ministry of Finance had to approve this bigger deal? Above all, I would like to know how to squeeze into the company's good name, say exotic companies such as Atka-Prima, and similar ones, which will be safe if they haven't been renamed a hundred times, and after some new channels, this money will come to the same addresses where it's going. For example, you read about some of the addressees that to keep production or to keep the company, it takes EUR 100 fifty million of credit, and you read in the Menager magazine that their assets are valued at EUR 100 fifty million. Is there any other guarantee scheme, or is credit necessary? If production is so healthy, business is so healthy, it should also increase its own share. A law that is urgently needed, which has three months of delay, which is still not adequate enough, has too many shortcomings to indicate a hurry with its acceptance. Therefore, in the absence of amendments, I do not think the law is suitable for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Does he still want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. He has the word, for the second time today at this amendment, Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you. I don't want to have it, but you know, if anyone's talking to me, I'm not going to call the people who talk, we haven't read the new amendment. When were we supposed to read it if we got it on the table at the beginning of this point? First time. Another time. That this amendment is so substantively important, Mr. Minister, you know I appreciate you very much. Why did you not include this content, which is so important and which was created today, in Article 3 when the law was drafted? It's not like it's 12 months or seven. And don't cheat. Be honest and honest. You made this amendment, first of all, the first one, that's the truth, the Minister of Economy said that if he was accepted to resign, and you invented another. That's the truth! You did not invent new content because I know that the Minister of Finance is so smart and so experienced that I would put this content in Article 3 if I had participated fully if I had not been overloaded in the formulation of Article 3. I believe you. But because he can't do it all on his own because he's got others, they let him in on something, and now here you're "get out" with guys like you to accuse us of not knowing what. The law is good, the government's basic law is good, and we will support it. I don't know why you object to this basic law. Because he's too restrictive? Yes, because the coalition formed Article 3 and such a restriction. And it's the right thing to do. But now we're saying he's a little too restrictive? Okay, let's move back, I propose, I can't do the amendment anymore, let's move on from Article 3, and the matter will be completely resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The basic problem is not to determine whether the acquisitions or purchases of tycoon are illegal. In fact, someone today can't afford property if he's given something like a guarantee that wasn't even his. Like, an example of buying a stake in Triglav's insurance company. I'll speak with my name and last name. Mrs. Klemenčičeva, for example, gave unpurchased shares for a guarantee. And we've got a lot of these big tycoons. And I personally don't know any of the tycoons who would pawn their personal belongings. None! We can even see stories today about how mass and fast-track property of these gentlemen is transferred to relatives, women, not to speak cousins, cousins and so on. And quality insurance, respected minister, is for me the property of a company, a good development vision, signed contracts or personal guarantees of owners. And nothing else. And I would like to tell you a little bit more European practice. There are also countries in Europe that care little about whether the company is doing well or doing badly for the company. Simply when he is no longer able to meet his financial obligations, the financial police, the company closes down, and the owner disintegrates. After a while another owner comes along, workers stay in the same jobs and those who caused these debts bear criminal and personal responsibility and the matter goes on. We're the only ones who can't do that. We're the only ones who can't do that! You know why that's not possible? Because banks don't have solidarity in responsibility and because these criminal associations are what they are. They're connected. But who in one person could actually buy a company if they didn't have help? I don't know a supervisor who would answer with personal property. And everyone by law has to answer with personal property. We haven't seized anything yet, and we won't. Because these gentlemen are helping the modern-day tycoons. They help them either with a preferred relationship to providing information or to service through banks when they purchase. And also the profits are shared, believe me, not only does he carry one full bag home. This is a privileged layer in our society, and the crow has never ruled out an eye. And even today, no harm will come to these gentlemen. It is true, however, that this is a huge mess, if we are to impose liability on taxpayers and demand that, with some special risk that we reintroduce, we protect the backs of those gentlemen who have thus filled only personal accounts. This is gonna be a mess. And that, Minister, is not a good decision, as you suggest, of course, your great coalition, in the amendments. That's not good. It's just to tear up. That's it. And if people wake up, they'll do more than that. So we don't get a headache tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, we have read certain data that are the basis for the preparation of the balance sheet. One of these is interesting: €900 million less tax revenue. No wonder. For the economy has not received any relief measure, no symbolic aid measure in the form, including State guarantees for credits and the like. No wonder there are so many fewer inflows into the cash register, for the economy cannot function without money and without markets, without stress. And that information isn't weird. And what's next? This will be followed by a reduction in expenditure, i.e. fewer investment activities. And she spied here and God help us. The State guarantees, which form the basis of this law, are limited. State guarantees are limited by this law to EUR 1.2 billion. They must therefore be targeted. There are no State guarantees just like that for all cases and for everyone. They have to be targeted. And they are targeted for those projects, investment projects of the economy, including for economic assets, as well as for the reprogrammes of those loans to economic operators dedicated to investment, the development of the company. That's the purpose, that's the purpose of this law. You have also extended this purpose to the possibility of reprogramming management loans. I have no objection to the opening of a debate whether banks can participate in this or not. Let the debate open, that's not the law. However, to give the country a guarantee that we can actually lay down the assets of all citizens and citizens, I am very opposed. This is not the purpose of the guarantee scheme law. The objective of the Guarantee Scheme Act is to promote economic activity, to give investment to the economy, for development, for business, not for ownership consolidation. And that's what you're allowing with this amendment. And don't ask me here to say that experts believe this is necessary and urgent. Look, the Taiwanese loan reprograms will eat up the quota and there will be no guarantees for investments, no investment loans. 1.2 billion is derived from the Guarantee Scheme Act, 400 million, 20% is just a restriction on reprogrammes, only 20, 240 million euros is intended for reprogramming loans. And you swallowed those 240s with tycoon loans. That's right, because it's not an exception, it's not above that figure. And that's why I think you're going here and you're kneeling before the pressures of these tycoons and the banks with them are really messed up. Today, we can read what rewards the banks have to do with these. He even discovered the Journal contract about these enormous prizes. This is a very interesting reading. And he feels the same way. why such sympathy and consistency are in listening to one side or another, and in being sensitive to solving one and the other problems. It is not your intention, ladies and gentlemen, to resolve the Slovenian economy and their problems with the state's guarantees. The aim is to save the ass of a couple who are in an unenviable situation because of the crisis and cannot repay the loans they have borrowed for management acquisitions. This is my secret in this amendment, and I am very sad to have the Ministry of Finance assist in this. I believe that parliamentary groups have been shot, even by those, with people who are still somehow personally interested in the adoption of such an amendment. If we read and know the client books of these so-called tycoons, where they belong and where they belong today. And I'm asking you nicely, and it's turned around in all this that you're talking about how you're against this, and at the same time you're supporting this amendment. You're risking, Your Honor, a referendum on this subject. You're risking a referendum. I don't know how you're going to convince people that their wages, how you're going to be that army of unemployed, 25 grand, these workers and workers who are facing bankruptcy, who have no wages, or who have low wages, who are waiting for work -- how you're going to convince them that there's no money for their businesses. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for the repurchase of Taiwanese loans against which no procedure has been initiated, the money is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u236	Respected and respected! I agree with those who point out that the purpose of the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is to help the economy. I personally see this measure as one of the key, which can quickly and should have helped the Slovenian economy a month or two ago in order to obtain liquid assets. We all know that the Slovenian economy needs these liquid assets desperately. I am monitoring the situation in Maribor's companies and in Maribor we have an interesting situation in many cases: we have companies that have successfully restructured through the crisis of the 1990s, healthy cores and these healthy cores have been pervasively expanding their production and service capacities until the beginning of this crisis. Now, of course, they're in a financial jam. We know the case of companies that have new orders in such a difficult sector and in both the crisis and the crisis in the sector, such as the automotive industry, new orders, but do not have the means to execute these orders through turnover. If we forget everything else, I'm sure the National Assembly can be so wise as to recognize it as our common interest. And this common interest is the Guarantee Scheme Act, where we claim and record that the funds from these guarantees are earmarked for investments, reverse funds and development projects. You, gentlemen, have brought the tycoons into this crisis. As far as the tycoons are concerned, let me say the following. I'm sure they're getting on our nerves. As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt when the process of tycunization of Slovenia began. We know who was in power at the time, and we know who then ruled the biggest Slovenian bank, which are also crucial in providing funds for managers' buyouts. As far as I'm concerned, at this point, let's reach agreement and adopt a law on the revision of managers' purchases and the nationalisation of their assets. I'll be right there! However, I find it very disturbing that one of the key anti-crisis measures, such as a guarantee scheme to provide fresh funds to the economy, is being burdened by stories such as tycoons. The issues of the tycoons, and I'm sure, even with this law, whether the coalition amendment is adopted or not, we're not going to solve this. I'm afraid in these times, we've kind of overreached demagogism and populism. I myself would like to be guided by common sense and judgment on what is important for the Slovenian economy, and before that for the Slovenian banking system, without which the Slovenian economy cannot swim, important. And in this respect, I understand the views of bankers, including those responsible for tycunization, that the question is what will be the interest in auctioning for this guarantee scheme on 28 May at all, if we do not adequately resolve this issue. And now I wonder what our interest is: the hunt for witches, the ones that some in this Chamber have caused themselves, or the fact that we are helping the Slovenian economy. I'm sure it's the last one. For that second story, we have every opportunity to take appropriate advantage of those who have had opportunities. And there's something else I'd like to suggest in my mind. Let us open the Penal Code and severely sanction all those who today use this limited power of the State, which the Republic of Slovenia is able to give to its citizens and the economy, for various abuses. It's a variety of measures. We know that this is happening in individual cases in the case of full-time subsidisation. I'm sure there's going to be some abuse in these cases, too. And let us threaten such people who abuse solidarity in this society, firmly on their fingers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister Dr. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that Article 13A does not limit only the loans to be paid under this guarantee scheme. It limits all bank placements that will be involved in the allocation of funds under this guarantee scheme. According to my internal information, more and more important banks operating in Slovenia are going to be involved. It is said that those falling under Article 13A will be virtually excluded from the credit market in Slovenia after the amendment of the coalition. This will be a very strong sanction. The shares they have set up will come into the market and will only be estimated by how much of this is the most abuse of capital market rules in the sky, which is an entrenched macroeconomic problem in order to solve this. That's the first step. If the high assembly wants to bring in another, then we will continue. But for the first step, that's more than enough. It's a very strong sanction. It's not as simple as what he thinks, just those taxpayer loans. All credits from these institutions, including those given by mothers for whom mothers from abroad at branches provide funds. Unless one of these banks decides not to join, I think they will approach, especially if we have to continue with this scheme. Initiatives to revise all procedures are still possible. If anyone wants to, agree on a parliamentary level and achieve this catharsis that the Slovenian people need in this area without a doubt and that would then make it easier for them to go through this current crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I must say that the last time we were in the reception and consideration of the guarantee scheme law, we supported this law as one of the positive measures in overcoming the problems in our economy, even though we had already pointed out the problem that we are dealing with in this law at the time, in these amendments to the cooperative law, when this solution failed unjustifiably at the time. So that's good. However, as far as this Article 3 and the amendments relating to Article 3 are concerned, I believe that there is a great deal of difficulty in reprogramming. After all, it was a terrible storm around the New Ljubljana Bank days or weeks ago. And now, of course, it's a big dilemma how to get out of it in some way. I have a feeling that in the coalition is trying in some way, a twisted way to legitimize some principle about good and bad tycoons. We have repeatedly stressed that we are talking too much about the tycoons, the bad cases in the economy, but we are always under-emphasizing good managers, under-emphasis on the success of good companies, because they are also carriers of our economic development and are repeatedly suppressed by the tycoons and all these cases in some way or in some way by the wrong procedures. There's something else I'd like to point out. Yesterday, I met some entrepreneurs who point out a major problem in the various calls for funds, state funds, that is to say, calls for development projects, for return on funds and then run into banks that do everything they can to find some reason why they don't need to be monitored by the funds. They find the least cause. Someone fulfils 20 conditions and one minor is possible for one number on the other decimal does not meet and does not receive adequate assistance: adequate assistance for strong development projects, adequate assistance for the assets and so on. These are companies that employ quite a few people. If we add this together, it is certainly huge and this also means a lot for the Slovenian economy and, after all, for Slovenian public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, President! With this amendment to Article 3, the coalition may wish to resolve the problem of Minister Lahovnik's announcement regarding this takunisation or through reprogramming by means of this scheme, in order not to implement the forecast already made by both the Infond Holding loan and now, if this guarantee scheme is to be in some kind of ownership consolidation. With what colleagues have said, I fully agree, and the opposition has also been susceptible, as you have seen, even in the previous two discussions in this law, that it is indeed necessary to help companies for further development, for operational resources and, of course, for development programmes. Half an hour ago, I was with a few people, and they told me that even at some invitation from the Ministry of Economics and they got some development at the Institute, not much, but enough, 30,000 euros that they could use when carrying out this project. They came to the bank and they said, "Yeah, what are you going to do to protect this?" "Yes, with the government's decision, we have the Ministry's decision to get it for that and that." They said at the bank, "Yeah, no, that's not enough, so there's more to it. Do you have a salary?" "Yes, we have a salary." "Then you'll be insured further with your personal property." I don't know. Maybe it's right. But please, when you ask yourself today, even in newspapers, who are tycoons, what are tycoon credits and so on, nothing else needs to be done, you just have to look at - all those credits that have been leased on the basis of the stock of that company that they wanted to own are completely contrary to my healthy economy. And this needs to be easily cut off and not allowed to develop further in this "zos" forward and further depletion of businesses. Therefore, this can be quite clear. To talk about how banks, if this condition is not met, will be able to work sovereignly and so on. Yeah, listen, what were the banks up to today doing, professionally, sovereignly, and where did they lead this economy? Where have they brought the country or the citizens to recover the story? But some of you wondered when and where this tycunization began, and you even knew who was in power at the time, who was leading the government. No, ladies and gentlemen, you're wrong. Over 20% of Slovenian assets went through pids, ids and so on. Who? - Yes, to those individuals who are today "god and beating" who own such a way, various Valanti, Darko Horvati, Igori Lahi, Matjaži Gantari and so on. They got this 20% Slovenian property in this way as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u243	Mr Pukšič, you are moving away from the debate on the amendment, and this is very strong. Please remain within the framework of both amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u244	Well, look, President, I'm talking about the guarantee scheme, what led us to this. I'm talking about the reasons that led us to this. Of course, we need to know who, when, and how he got out. And this was upgraded back in 1994, when the penal code and the law on criminal proceedings changed. And we're in the story of, like, the theft of social property, which is what happened. Therefore, if only possible, this guarantee scheme must be implemented in a way that will serve real development and the economy will be revived, not the consolidation of false ownership created on the basis of theft.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! I support the guarantee scheme law because, you could say, it's better late than never. It's hard to expect the economy. As it is said, it will allow economic operators to borrow loans, namely those companies that have the strength and courage to invest further in the growth and development of their business. I also support the inclusion of cooperatives in this guarantee scheme as they operate in exactly the same way or in a similar way as economic operators organised under the Company Act. I do not support and will not support the amendment, because I am absolutely opposed to banks giving guarantees or loans for the reprogramming of tycoon loans. As my colleague Pukšič said before me, those who took over those companies at the time had already had this privilege to raise assets that were not even their own at that time. You try for a car or for any real estate to go to the bank and ask if you can set up a property that is not yours. I will support this law, and the amendment to Article 3 will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I would not comment because the question is, in principle, whether we are still convinced and there is much to be said, but some discussions have gone beyond what is meant by misleading the public, which is accompanying us and our debate, all borders. Unfortunately, my colleague, Visionary, is not here. I'm sure he knows that this marriage doesn't say what he said. The Minister has already warned, perhaps too simplistic and clear that this law prohibits any lending, regardless of the source, and this is one of the choices of this bill. It is not the funds at the expense of the guarantee scheme or those guaranteed by the State, but all the financial resources available to the banks. This must first be known to the public and not to the Slovenian public in terms of the referendum and I do not know what else to prepare with such informed misinformation. Conscientious misinformation is better called after Slovenian or worse. Secondly, colleague Pukšič, without the desire for replication or polynomization, if it were so simple that the problem would be only those tycoons or loans that they have set up for shares or securities of companies they have purchased, it would be easy to write this into law. But if we wrote that down, then it would be as if we had a net with too many holes fishing for fish and we'd practically get away with it through that network. Please, the debate on such financial content requires a certain degree of precision by nature, and it is not possible to "politicise" under the terms of the statement. But I have a feeling that's what you're doing, whether you want to do it or you don't want to do it. The next, which is important and needs to be realized over and over again, is that we are really used to it, some of us, in particular, who have started this last year, when others have just observed or even opposed the answers to these questions, and they forget this today. It's easy to say tycoon and tycoon credit. However, when this needs to be clarified and defined in some correct legal way, there is a great deal of embarrassment in this correctness. Of course, there is something else to be detected from the debates that have been here. That now the notion of tycoon has become synonymous with those who have decided to take over under the law and those who have done the concentration of capital under the law. Yes, but we cannot say for those who claim that tycoons, except from that Slovenian simple character move that is called in us in Styria's "fossy". Yeah, but not every tycoon who bought it in accordance with the law. We can't afford them, we disagree, but we can't declare that a tycoon. And that is exactly what is happening in these direct debates. Every entrepreneur, every economist who bought some property legally, is now trying to declare populism as a tycoon and I don't know what. It is true that the definition should be defined, or each one for himself, one understands something, the other understands, of course, another. It is very interesting, I would advise that some read the magnetograms of their performances last August, last July and early September on some working bodies when we discussed this issue. I think they'd remember something if they'd forgotten, or maybe they'd be a little embarrassed. Otherwise, I will not, because it is a waste of time and energy, because it is not worth convincing those who are certain and those who have a different objective, but not providing urgent financial assistance to the healthy part of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u249	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment to Article 3, because it is simply unacceptable. It would be acceptable if, in fact, it were only in the form of the first part and if it were not, therefore, a condition under which this guarantee scheme could also be used for a re-programme of tycoon credits, or even if it is otherwise called. I ask you whether the crisis is now some sort of alibi to help the poor who have become owners of almost half of the Slovenian state overnight. No, the crisis can't be an alibi for this. The objective of the guarantee scheme was clear: to help the Slovenian economy cope with the crisis and to help overcome the liquidity problems that are currently the biggest problem of the Slovenian economy. So improve liquidity. And this is what we all supported, and we also praised the government and said that this was one of the best government measures. Now, just before the 12th through the back door, we want to bring into law the possibility that these state guarantees, guarantees, can also be used under certain conditions for a reprogramme of Taiwanese credits, which is something that these funds have not been earmarked for. We are talking about measures to improve or the conditions of the Slovenian economy to make this easier to overcome the financial crisis. And through these measures, the government wants to help someone in some way because it's been calculated a while. That's what I'd call it. It's a simple "wetting, wiggling." Do you know what "smuggling" is?Oh, my God! I don't even know why this is really necessary. Mrs. Potter, would you like to say something, please?Oh, my God! I'll shut up. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench, incomprehensible.]] I'll shut up and leave you to it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u251	The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u252	I wonder if the share of these tycoon loans in our banks is actually greater than what has been said in the public eye. It was said that this share was less than 1%. If that's true, then there's nothing to worry about. In this case, it is unlikely that this guarantee scheme is necessary for this purpose. Or maybe this share of these tycoon loans in the NLB and I don't know which other banks, the NKBM, are bigger. A significantly larger one and therefore these banks need to be helped now. Again, I ask myself, where was the expertise of the banks? Where was risk management - "risk management"? Obviously, when this happened when these loans were approved, they were not the most thoroughly studied. The question is also based on what documents these loans were approved. Maybe based on none? Maybe based on some acquaintances and relationships, with beautiful eyes?Oh, my God! And it seems unacceptable to me that now, because of this means that we urgently need for the Slovenian economy, for the recovery, for the resettlement of this crisis, we will be committed to this because no one has done what we should. And I don't think that's acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u253	Yes, ma'am. Spending. Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u254	Mr Vice-President, I propose that we introduce at the beginning of each session five minutes of free speech, in which anyone who has anything to say against Majda Potrat would say that they would then normally run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u255	I think it would be difficult to accept this procedural proposal. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u256	Mrs. Potrata, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u257	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u258	Mrs. Potrata, I sincerely apologize for replacing your names. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you very much, mag. It's a crane. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. When we talk about tycoons and some wonder who we mean by that word, I would say that certainly not those who may have stepped together in some small company, the leadership, some workers, and they squeezed out all their savings, set up their houses for credit and took over a small company and thus pulled it out of the problems it was in. We are talking about those who have become victims of some pathological megalomanic greed for wealth. So this wealth that they can't master, that they can't bear with their work so far, with their savings so far and so forth. That's what this is about. These are the most infamous cases, and all Slovenians know who we mean by tycoon and tycoon loans. And it's about those loans. If I look at the amendment before us and compare the reprogramming of the past months, but those that are somehow known to the public, we have information that there are many more people who are not known to the public, I can say that if the schemes were already in force at the time and that amendment was already in place, I do not know one case that this amendment would have kept. So lame is this amendment, not to say, saved alive. It'll all go through. Even the minister can't stop some things, he'll just be informed about the events. Of course, I agree to the thesis of very well-known economists, and you know them, that, as I said, the Mega-Romanian tycoons will never return the principal, ever! There's a lot of trouble to pay back interest, never the principals! The bank will never see the head. So what happens now? The State guarantee will allow the bank to dig itself out of these problems and get the money. But not from the tycoons, never. And in this way, we will again completely rehabilitate banks from the taxpayer's assets, because from this guarantee scheme, the bank will collect what the tycoon should pay back. If the bank were to be fair, if it acted as normal in such cases, it would now immediately seize what it could seize, because it's in held property, it's the right stock, and we would take something out of it. We'd like to get through something. But the bank won't be in love with that now. On the contrary. She'll wait for the guarantee scheme, the state guarantee, because then she'll get 80% of this. And also, if the State is to provide a guarantee in such cases, the State should require at least the real estate of those companies or those taking over the company. At least we should sit somewhere on their property. And it's not like that either. This amendment highlights or really directs us, or convinces us that we will finally pay the taxpayers, and so - called tycoons will preserve everything they have received in this way. We'll buy them shares, we'll buy them all this property, or we'll donate them. This amendment is impossible to support, however, who thinks it is more important how our country treats taxpayers. Someone's resentful of the word that it's a perverse thing. It's really a perverse, really!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u261	Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. It does seem that some things need to be repeated repeatedly in the National Assembly because they are constantly saying things that are false or willful or because someone has not read them. The basic purpose of the guarantee scheme law, which we keep talking about as good as it is, has also remained. Article 8 remained, saying: "The guarantees under this law cannot be issued in cases where the credit is intended to buy out companies or their shares or to repay existing loans hired for these purposes." Loans cannot be secured with a guarantee scheme. "It is true that the basic law we adopted at the end of March did not have sanctions. We now impose sanctions with paragraphs 17a and b. The penalty shall be null and void if an infringement of Articles 8, 7, 6 and 10 is established. This means that, of course, it is not possible with the State guarantee to secure loans for these purposes. It's an addition to this law that makes it better. All those who say that this guarantee scheme is going to protect tycoon loans, you don't know what you're talking about. You're telling the truth, you're deceiving people. I find this expression difficult to use because I am in Parliament. But it's true. They're lying to inform the public. However, there is something else that we have introduced in this article 13a, namely that we have limited banks using this guarantee scheme to provide loans for purposes for which it is very clear in Article 7 that they must not reprogram or extend credits. And we've clearly written down who these are. To repeat these reasons: they have no permission to take over the offer and they are against it because of the infringement, it is an abuse of it, a concentration assessment procedure is introduced, it is no longer necessary to inform the minister, as Mr Tsukati said, because it does not say so. He's talking about an amendment that's not there and no one's been discussing it. It is true, however, that the Ministry has the opportunity to request this from the bank. That's really possible. That's me. Because today we don't know how many of these loans there are. In one of the journals today, I read that these loans were granted for a circus of €7.5 billion between 2004 and 2008. Maybe there's more, maybe fewer. These aren't all tycoon loans. These are also credits that stand for good companies, run them well, and many people have bread. If we don't adopt this amendment and change the law in its original form, we're going to cut off all these birds, we're going to cut off the blood supply for that kind of money because the bank is going to have to cash. Who will be responsible for this? We don't. With this change, the Government has also seriously cut into Taiwanese credits for those funds that the banks themselves have, which they are discussing. Remember the law when we talked about state guarantees for borrowing loans in foreign financial markets. I think it's worth a few ten billion euros. We also wrote: "So obtained credits for banks should not be used for this." That's when we wrote it down. And that's what this government wrote down in there, not the previous one, which, with its supervisory councils and with the people who ran the World's Watch Banks, has approved huge funds that are causing us today problems that we can't do some things. The non-acceptance of this amendment means, of course, this law, that we leave everyone the way. In this way, in at least one part of the banking sector, one that will also help this economy through this guarantee scheme, we hold back the poultry in some way that it can no longer freely grant credit and in some way also reprogramme them for those we now consider to be unjustifiable. What are tycoon credits and none of us want to say. You might know?Oh, my God! Tell me what these loans are, and we'll put them in this amendment. I support him, but tell me - who, where and what credit is this, what amount [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And let's write that they can't reprogram you. [[...]] Do you hope to do that?Oh, my God! I doubt it. First time. Because you don't know. And a second time. Because it's a scrawny thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u263	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday, or the President of the National Assembly read an act authorising a parliamentary inquiry to determine all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions of the companies Istrabenz, the holding company and the Pivovarna Laško d.d. by banks or credit institutions held by a majority of state ownership. Yesterday you defined some that need to be specifically examined because they are not allegedly controversial, but because they are controversial. Today you are proposing an amendment where you deny exactly what you requested yesterday by ordering a parliamentary inquiry! That's exactly what I'm talking And yesterday in the debate, the coalition MPs and other signatories made it clear that the parliamentary inquiry must be extended to other companies and cut further into the past. So, what you requested from the Parliamentary Investigations Act and what was proposed by the coalition Members - they are sitting here close to me and other signatories - you can just transfer to this section of this Act. Definitely. Everything that happened to you until last night is no longer in dispute. Today is no longer an issue. Today it is a bright exception that will save the Slovenian economy. The coalition can't possibly be that unconstitutional if it wants to run the country successfully. The coalition cannot be so double-minded that yesterday one issue is not alleged to be disputed, because we had to correct our request and we had to correct it so that it was "proposed". Today, for yesterday's act or yesterday's act - The Law-Legal Service did not require any correction that this is supposed to be disputed, but is controversial and this is defined. If you want any more cases, I'll tell you the case of Viator&Vector and System Engineering. By direct sale, or by direct contract, Kad handed over to the majority, I don't know 80% or 78% of the shares to Viator&Vector. This is what Viator&Vector sold in a few weeks, a quarter share of this for the same amount as he bought from the country. He paid for it just as much as he sold a quarter of it in three weeks. Three quarters of what he bought was left. In addition, he received a contract of EUR 30 million for the production of light armour and a letter of intent of EUR 300 million. What example is this, how do we define it? The people involved were involved in the bodies of the Court, in the organs of Kad, in the Slovenian Development Society and in the Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation. Then there were ministers. They're not here today. Exactly the same person. They're not here today. And yesterday, when we discussed the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, unfortunately, the Government did not participate in this point. She didn't cooperate. Why, may I ask? Why is there a shortage of those who have also allowed tycunization so that grapes can be grown in the supervisory boards of companies, membership and some have been in five supervisory councils and five subsidiaries, and they have been able to make this cluster with their decisions and we have received a mountain cluster, a Styrian cluster, and another cluster. And those who have now come to these horrors at the end, and as managers, will now be given a special status under this guarantee scheme. We do not save the economy, we do not save economic societies, but we allow people with names and surnames to receive these funds differently than other natural persons. Is this only true for Igor, for Binet, for God, why is it not true for everyone else? Why is it not true of all others, including John? Why are you doing this kind of double-crossing? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] This amendment cannot be supported for all these reasons that I have listed because it is targeted at specific persons with names and names; and this is not a general solution. If it is a general solution, then let us extend the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry and include the contents of that in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u265	Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Check-in is on. Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I had no intention of calling at this point, but, after this last debate, after these huge words by certain colleagues, especially I am thinking about SD and Really, I think it would be good to say a few sentences myself on this subject. So, I will certainly not support the proposed supplement because I am sure that they are trying to bring exactly what has been said through this supplement to this law. There was also much to be said on this subject by the economic minister, who even claimed it, and it is written everywhere: "If this happens, I will resign from my ministry." Now this customer is the one who is most encouraging the addition, and I think it is also practical to prepare this supplement. If you look at what it says in Finance: "really kneeling in front of a tycoon." Amazingly and personally, I cannot understand that, on the one hand, Mr Golobič, the Minister of Economy said that he would do anything, even give up, so that what was happening now would simply come elegantly through the back door with a supplement to enable the reprogramming of tycoon credits. I will also quote part of the article of 26.5.2009 from Finance, which reads: "First of all, let us remind ourselves that the Committee of the National Finance Assembly, a good week ago in the proposal for the amendment of the Guarantee Scheme Act, has deleted an exception that would conditionally allow banks participating in the scheme to renew Taiwanese loans. This is a loan for the purchase of shares or business shares of companies by members of the management boards of these companies and associated persons as defined in the proposal for a law. Immediately after the Committee's move, coalition parties, including Zares, who claimed the most publicly before weeks ago, were benttillas over the tycoons and their Minister, Matthew Lahovnik, publicly threatened with resignation, submitted an addendum to this bill. This supplement today will also be supported by the coalition Members, it is agreed, confirmed yesterday by Villa Trofenik of the Zares Group." So, dear colleagues, believe me, I can no longer understand this in the National Assembly, that certain political groups can speak one thing and their leaders are doing something completely different. That's really unacceptable. And on the other hand, I look at where the listed individuals on the scales, among which Matthew Lahovnik has been placed even in another place, because by what he has done here, he has deceived - and I will not use this harsh word as one colleague in the Group of Social Democrats used - he has deceived, gravely deceived the entire National Assembly, everyone who is here today, and all the Slovenians and Slovenes. And here we have him, if I'm petty, on a lie because he claimed one now he's doing something completely different. Is this really just about trying to promote yourself before the European elections? Thank God this meeting of the National Assembly came today because we have found the duality of Zares and Minister Lahovnik himself. And please, it is clear for what reasons and why I will not personally support this proposed amendment. Never! Slovenians and Slovenians will not pay and buy the shares of those who have already robbed them. Now again with this reprogramming, once again with this guarantee, these gentlemen will continue to function and retain this property and add it to the account of all citizens and citizens. This is unacceptable, distasteful and utterly rude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u267	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u268	Mr. Kek, procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u269	Let me tell you one more joke, maybe?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u270	No, no, no. I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I would therefore point out once again that the Guarantee Scheme Act does not allow any intra-purchase loans to be used either for very small shares or for the extension of the redemption of loans under this heading. The amendment, however, extends the prohibition of even granting credit from any source for those purchases that are likely to have been carried out negotiablely or in contravention of positive legislation, irrespective of the low level of sanctions in other laws due to the mistakes of this legislation, and will be very strong here. So this is a very large intervention in our capital market, by trying to achieve some catharsis in the most absorbing cases of domestic redemption. And when they were created, I won't keep saying it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Yes, please, Mr Rozjej, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I would ask you to limit the debaters to the topic we are discussing according to your options. In short, on the two amendments that have been tabled, not on the amendments that have been tabled and no longer submitted, and so on, because it will then be possible for those who have a difficult understanding of a number of things, and often also in the National Assembly, to explain, understandably, that yesterday's paper on today's amendment cannot be written and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Rose. I am trying very hard, and I would be very much in favour of this happening, but they have a chance to say it through the rules of procedure. And we all listen to them, and so do the others. Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. Mr. Pojbich for naming me and quoting me. It's already been said, but some of you really need to hear it more than once, and I don't know if it'll help. Talking about an amendment that wasn't there yesterday was irrelevant. And on the basis of such a document, which is not available, to draw conclusions - it is even worse, Mr Pojbič. I don't know, now if I were a little mean, I could say that we had tactically deceived you, but that wasn't meant to be, because we offered you an amendment, you built all the strategy and tactics on that amendment, and now we've slipped it away to you - I'm saying this in a joke - and you fell into the water. This is the fundamental problem of all your discussions. The same respectable Mr. Tanko. As the leader of the largest parliamentary group, the opposition, formerly the position that you can claim, here in the camera and in the face of such an untruth, that we deny with the amendment what was written when the commission of inquiry was formed. Yeah, where did you read that?Oh, my God! What I am about to say is unworthy, but since you have gone to such a level, I will be forced to go to such a level, otherwise we do not understand: Boško and Igor cannot get credit after this amendment. What you said. Boško and Igor can't get a loan after this amendment! However, Mr Pojbič may get it, but one correct strategic partner who would come and buy Paloma is running out of money, he doesn't have enough cash. And he can have it. Gentlemen, you are coming to the opposite with yourself and stop, find something - I already told one of your colleagues today, who on yesterday's statements and yesterday's facts built a strategy for today's performance, and he was lost again because there was no basis anymore. And secondly, this information that you're threatening with a referendum is no surprise. Do the tycoons talk to you or even pay you or stimulate you for the referendum? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Who will be most interested in the referendum to bring the marriage down? [[...]] Tycoons! And you have the money. What is it to fund one propaganda, such as populism for these tycoons, because the referendum means that this law is not available and that credits are unlimited in quantities as will be available to gentleman and lady 'passionate' for tycoons. This is the essence of your desires and debate, not concern when you speak for a little, and shit and a healthy economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, that was your replica. That's why you only have a word now, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Price elasticity depends on the angle under which the supply and demand are mapped. And of course, it also depends on the characteristics of the raw material we are talking about and on the market. What I have just said has nothing to do with this debate. Approximately as has been done so far on this side of the congregation when it comes to something that makes no sense and has nothing to do with today’s debate. The proposed amendment, as has already been made clear, makes it impossible to credit those acquisitions which did not have all the relevant permits and which were not in accordance with all the laws. This is the amendment, and those who do not agree to it read the amendment again. And if you still disagree, read it again. There is no question now of how we will punish the so-called tycoons as much as possible. They're going to me, as probably to a lot of other people, but that's not today's goal. And even though the debate is linked to this, this is not the objective of today's debate. Today's debate is about how we will enable liquidity to the Slovenian economy, as we are discussing this. We are talking about those urgent measures that we spent between nine and two nights on Friday. We are discussing and discussing how Slovenian companies will be able to achieve the necessary liquidity and continue to operate normally. Please, let's keep our minds on the finish line. And the goal is to ensure liquidity. Let's think about how we can ensure this liquidity as well, as efficiently as possible, by, of course, preventing the financing of disputed acquisitions. But the fact is, unfortunately, these acquisitions are already connected and are in such volumes that they are so connected to the banking system that it is difficult to make a clear and accurate cut and that we risk that if we want to be too big, the price will pay the Slovenian economy and we will pay the price for it. So, please, let us be sober and be wise when we talk about these amendments and when we talk about this law. Once again, the objective is the liquidity of the economy, the objective being, if only possible, to limit lending of disputed acquisitions. And we're talking about amendments that are actually on the table, not about what we might think is on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u278	Mr. Trofenik, would you like another word? Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u279	Respectable. You know, if anyone else is watching us on TV for a long time, they might really think that we want to contribute with these amendments to get the Taliban's loans back. Therefore, instead of reading old newspapers, let me read clearly what this amendment says: "Banks under Article 1 of this Act, because they obtain a guarantee quota, must not be allowed in the context of their business..." They can't! "...to lend loans for the purchase of shares and business shares of companies by members of management and companies and related persons. And they must not renew loans or otherwise modify the terms of the loans if they have been given to purchase shares or business shares of companies by members of the management boards of those companies and related persons." And they must not all do so, 'if they do not have the permission to take over the offer, if they are currently under way for infringement of the market for financial instruments, if a concentration assessment procedure is introduced for non-compliance with the rules of competition in accordance with the law and so on. The limits set out in this Article 2 shall also apply to the insurance of liabilities arising from the acquisition of funds for the purchase of shares and business shares. The assessment of the conditions referred to in point (a), (b), (c) of the first paragraph of this Article shall take into account the procedures introduced or completed within a period of five years prior to the submission of an application for a guarantee in accordance with this Act. The limits laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall apply from the date of issue of the guarantee until the duration of the guarantee... and so on. If you have read this, then you know that it is not what you have been explaining to us all evening and convincing people in Slovenia. I suggest we accept this amendment and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u280	Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. I must say that we are not here today in the mill, because in the mill it is said twice, we have to say it five times, six times, ten times if it is not enough twice. The man with the wisest eyes in this room was not the wisest when he discussed and many of his older colleagues and colleagues did not. I must say that the wisdom that my colleague Luka Juri has called to, unfortunately, there is not much in this room, especially not on the right. At the very least, I will repeat what my colleagues have already said because it shows that we have no other choice. The original law, which we are amending and supplementing here, is very clear: a billion 200 million guarantee schemes cannot be used to provide guarantees to those who would extend loans with this money or borrow loans for managers' buyouts. This is so clearly written in Article 8 that those who are a handful of letters - and here it is understood that 90 Members and Members of the National Assembly are written, or perhaps they could not be Members, although any Member may be. Read what the basic text of the law says! And in the amendments and additions to the law in Article 13a, the Government added a text that extended the restrictions on the extension and granting of loans for managers' purchases to all transactions carried out by banks - those banks that will use this guarantee scheme. So here it is, I think, completely clear and unequivocally written already in the basic text. And at each stage, as this 13th article changed, a few more sharpness was added. So now in the end we have almost reached the names and names of companies. If you translate this, those who claim that the guarantee scheme can be used to refinance credits for managers' buyouts, or you have no idea or are lying and deliberately "colorate" people in this country. I can't say anything else because - see if we know that this is a billion 200 million, and if we know that in fact only the Slovenian banks have hired these loans by about 6 times the amount for this purpose and that not all of these credits are total loss and ruin, nor close to no, because many of these credits that some have rented are safe and will be repaid. It's so not true that the banks will never see the mains. Nothing's true! In some cases, and in these cases, care should be taken to prevent abuse. And that's why the law explicitly states that these contracts are null and void. I really don't understand why you're being stupid, but we all know you're not stupid; but you're not wise, and that's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u282	Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am few to propose procedurally, but not now, but perhaps to enter into the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, so that before a single point in the treatment of materials, a short test for each Member or Member would be to check whether he can at least master the basics of the content that he will discuss, because I am sure that in this way many would be disabled to discuss a matter that he obviously cannot understand or does not want to understand. And those others who do not want to understand could, however, perform as some SDS colleagues do today, who, I am sure, understand the text to see that the amendment proposed today is completely different from that proposed yesterday, and that therefore speaking so, in mind and so maliciously is really unworthy of individual Members and even less of the leader of the Group of Members. And that Mr Tanko also mentioned in his performance how we are two-faced in the Group of Members, how we spoke yesterday about one thing, how we are doing another today. I think it has already been said yesterday that the act establishing a parliamentary inquiry is intended to investigate specific cases. What has probably even escaped in the second part of Marskom by focusing only on two companies is that an important part of the parliamentary investigation is to investigate the circumstances in the area of the legal rules governing the takeover. And it will also be clear here why in the previous term there may have been such emerging forms that the opposition colleagues have so listed as allowing their colleague Tsukati to declare that all Slovenians know who the tycoons are, that all Slovenians know what the tycoon credits are, and so far there has been no appropriate or even no action in this area, or that I am not saying that this has even been encouraged. It is therefore really unnecessary for all to repeat and read the articles of the law, to read an amendment that would probably be sufficient if the minister repeated it several times, that it should be believed and that the effort that has been made to make such an amendment is, at this point, the most possible to be done. Therefore, it seems to me that it is more dangerous that some people cannot understand, than it is more dangerous that some people do not want to understand and therefore deceive the Slovenian public, because those who believe and know how to read and even know a little about the economy or this area know that this amendment is urgently needed at this point. It is essential that the life and financing of businesses continue. However, this article limits those negative phenomena against which this coalition is directed, and if you have mentioned us so much, even and especially the party really is trying to fight.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u284	Mr. Tanko, you want a replica? It's a debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I would like to thank you for all the compliments we have received in these discussions. I'd like to read this amendment, too. Maybe we, in the opposition, don't really know how to read. It therefore states that: the banks referred to in Article 1 of this Law that would receive a guarantee quota should not, in the context of their operations, lend to the purchase of shares; and so on; renew the loans or otherwise modify the terms of the loans if they do not have the permission to take over the offer. But if they can! [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] - but? Yeah. [[...]] [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u286	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I would like, Mr Vice-President, to note that the level of debate of the coalition Members is rising longer than the debate. And I thank everyone very much for all of Mr Kumar's compliments and everyone else for what they are sitting back for. Obviously, it is necessary to have and adopt appropriate acts in due time in order to be ready for beer and flowers in the month of July. And this law that we are now adopting, and this amendment is exactly as it was previously found by Comrade Žerjav. I don't mind if you write twice the negative that he can't get a case if he doesn't have a takeover offer, but he can get it if he does. If the infringement proceedings are pending, we can also write if it is not against them. In short, it doesn't confuse me if you write a single form twice in the text of the amendment so that I can understand something wrong. I've already understood well, and especially those who somehow find that we don't understand read well. Well, if you don't have a negative form twice, write it twice in positive form. Someone can get a loan if they have one. He can't win if he doesn't. This is quite understandable in the 2nd or 3rd grade of elementary school that when we write twice negative or twice positive, the substantive issue does not change. Nothing. The way you turn it, it doesn't matter. But the point is, the contents of the amendment are exactly what I just said. And all of these exceptions, which you discussed so vehemently yesterday for six or seven hours that they were being financed in dispute, will now be legally financed, now you've created a legal basis and by writing it down, by this amendment [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the text and, if adopted, legalize the robbery of public finances. [[...]] This is a legal robbery of public finances. When you give a guarantee to the state budget, in which we pay all citizens, for a few individuals who will be actively allocated or, I don't know, 400 million euros. And by writing it like that, it means that other citizens will just pay, but they can't get these funds for these things. As far as the effect of the law is concerned, it may be difficult to tell you now, because you are somehow blinded and you see some other matters as to the effect of the law. Let's wait tomorrow for the following days and see if the banks will implement these management projects that are now in revolutions or restructurings or will not. There's probably no dilemma in the National Assembly. That is exactly what will happen, for all of this is in the interest of both ultra and infrared areas. There's no dilemma. All those who seem to be the most opposed and critical of the funding that has happened that has been realized by the bank's management in the past months, you are now legislating this, this is now the rule, this is now the norm. And even so far, you will hurry before the European Union gives its consent to this guarantee scheme. Even so, it is in such a hurry for these projects and for these funding. In short, I would advise you to read this amendment well; if you don't understand it, read it again, if you don't understand it, you can read it again. And if you don't understand him yet, then God help you! Or they'll be tycoons who'll get that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Tuckyat, you want a replica? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u289	Replica. Since I have been appointed a Member who knows the amendment poorly and should not even speak, I will, allow me, ask you, Mr Posedel, and other advocates, which of the so-called tycoons, who are many more than the public knows, would not receive a reprogram after this amendment. Which of these tycoons that have received credit in recent months is in the process of infringements relating to the misuse of the market in financial instruments, in the process of infringements relating to the presentation of the takeover offer, a concentration assessment procedure is introduced against them - which of these tycoons? That guy wouldn't get the reprogram, and everyone else would get it. Second of all, I'd like to ask that we understand each other. We're not against reprogramming credits, absolutely not. But let these gentlemen, like ordinary borrowers, provide for themselves and prove to the banks that they will be able to repay the loan. Not at my expense, at my children's expense, my grandchildren, not at my employers' expense - that's what this is about. We are willing to help the bank with the tax, and we are prepared to give the guarantee for the loans, but for those we have decided that the economy needs them to get out of the economic crisis. Taking over does not mean any way out of the economic crisis. The Laško brewery and the other factories that are in the holding company did nothing better if Shrota's debt was reprogrammed. No one's gonna work better. So, once again: we are not against reprogramming, let the gentlemen ensure it themselves, or you, if you want them, voluntarily. Just impose on taxpayers to save the economy instead of getting out of this economic crisis, so that they can continue taking over and transitioning in this way, I would say, a perverse way - this does not belong to normal democracy! That's all we wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u290	Anybody else want to discuss this? Except for the Mags. A visionary, anyone else? I'm opening the application. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Since it won't hurt, in 20 seconds, I'd like to remember again what we're talking about. We are discussing the liquidity of the Slovenian economy and we are discussing those effective measures that we have heard so much about in the past week and are likely to continue. Please keep in mind what is the main objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u292	Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u293	I must say that these reading exercises do not help much, because you cannot possibly understand that in Article 8 it is explicitly stated that the funds on the basis of the guarantee scheme cannot be placed as credits for the purchase or extension of credits, it is said, for credits for the purchase or extension of loans for managers' acquisitions. That's what Article 8 says. Read it because it looks like you haven't read the basic law. You haven't read the basic law. Go and read what the basic law says, where there was no need to change it. The guarantee scheme of EUR 200 million must not be spent on anything other than guarantees, on loans in the economy. While paragraph 13a prohibits the entire operation of the bank, it is said that if the bank takes 500 million, say, those vouchers or whatever they are called, for a guarantee scheme, for credits in a guarantee scheme, then this bank will not be allowed to grant any credit to such companies as are in these a, b, c points written. For God's sake, learn to read and understand!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u294	Mr. Willy Trophynik. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Dear Dr. Tsukati, in your previous term, you once told me in one discussion that the wiser would give up. But I won't be smarter. I can't understand your claim because it doesn't come out of any text, no amendment, no law, no law that, because of the exceptions written in the amendment, citizens, taxpayers and their children would continue to pay "anything". Doctor, that's simply not true and it doesn't say it anywhere. With all due respect, you just expect some people not to be able to say something like that, and that's why I volunteered, and nothing else. I don't want any controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u296	Mr. Trofenik was discussing it. Mr. Tuckyat, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u297	I'll be smarter, I'll give it up. I would ask, Mr President, that you give a copy of the amendment referred to in this point, including Mr Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. The liquidity of the Slovenian economy certainly - yes, of course, I am in favour of this, if this is the basic purpose of what we are doing, but on the basis of some clever programme of the company, on the basis of contracts concluded, credit can be granted, on the basis of guarantees of the value of the company, on the basis of the personal guarantees of the owners, then the state must be untied if you want. In these cases, always. But, ladies and gentlemen, here are the ladies gathered, today you are referring to the nullity of business, and on behalf of the State, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to identify it. Lack of business was already done when someone bought something and pawned it as a guarantee. And basically, I'm saying that these are criminal associations associated with banks associated with supervisors who have pre-conceived information to individuals privileged to individuals, because I believe that there is no citizen among the two-millionths of a crowd who would not want to risk anything to come to great wealth. Everyone would like to do that! But these were just the chosen ones who had this opportunity. Just the chosen ones! And those, of course, could also do so with the help of banks, and today, when we see that this is no longer as valuable as it should have been, the country should have taken part in the responsibility. That's not right. And if I look at the road of confused people and closed businesses today, I will limit myself to Primorsko, look what only the famous Bachar has done, which he does not hope to mention personally, we only mention him here because he knows too much about the pigs that other politicians have done. That's the one who shut down Drogo Portorož. The drug, which was excellent for companies, with excellent brand and Kolinsko, sold the most elite part of Kopra! Not to speak of what he did in the laughter of Istrabenz, who is not even Istrabenz anymore, is an OMW, and he still wanted to be kept there by some supervisor. I believe that he would succeed with the help of supervisors in Istrabenz to become director again. That's what he signed up for. And today to talk about helping such people, of course, even with the help of this law, is not right. For the debts of these things, of these things, shall all be paid. However, Slovenia is already in over-indebted. We've already over-indebted our grandchildren and probably their sons and daughters. And by doing what we do, someone will probably ask us once if we were in the right mind and full of consciousness when we did it. That's really part of the story. Dear Minister, if we want to help businesses, let us also intervene in order to increase the liquidity of the company, of course also by replacing any name, which owner, and of course that the country will also intervene with the social defence, with criminals and relax any of these modern-day tycoons. I don't care if Pek says Pekko or writes Borovo, only that the workers have work to do there. I don't care if it is, I don't know, Mr. Bavčar's owner or Boris Novak. I don't care, but we haven't released any of these modern-day tycoons, we haven't taken anything from him, and, of course, none of these gentlemen have relied on a guarantee scheme when he was raising credit in his own name and for his property, which he acquired in a strange way. This is controversial and is also pointed out by opposition colleagues. Once again, the liquidity of the Slovenian economy must be protected that when there is a healthy development programme in the company where contracts are signed, when contracts are awarded, where the value of the undertaking is such that credit can also be issued, and, of course, where personal guarantees are also available. And let the supervisors ask for health once. Not one of the overseers who sat and drew the fat prizes had been responsible for his unusual conclusions, which he accepted in the early hours of the morning, of course, for the benefit of individuals. These are the problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u300	Mr. Mag. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u301	Thank you very much. From where do we claim that, of course, as it says here, it is possible to renew loans for the guarantee scheme. For the first time because the renewal of loans in Article 8 is not prohibited. Article 8 states that credit - that it is not possible to issue a loan if it is intended to buy out companies or their shares or to repay existing loans. And that's it, dot. Restoration of loans - and you introduce this term. Restoring loans, why you don't write here in your deadline, I don't know, buying up businesses or renting loans to pay off existing loans. So it is very clear here that this exception has been brought through Article 8 and Article 13. It is clear to me that if you are not, and you will never understand what will happen. Why? Because it's all secret. The Commission wants to obtain data, specific data on the loans given - it does not get them. Banka Slovenije - banks refer to confidentiality under the Bank Act and we cannot know any individual data. Moreover, today the treaty with Mr Kramar and the Information Commissioner, which you have confirmed here, has immediately indicated in this House that this is an intervention in personal data and has withdrawn this from the websites and that we must not be interested in this. You will never, Your Honor, know whether there has been any reprogramming, under what conditions, and by whom! Because these data are not available to us who are adopting a guarantee scheme law here today. Over, over, over. These are the countless letters from Banka Slovenije - nam. We will never be able to verify this, and it will be a joy to do so through the holes laid down in this law and in this amendment. These are the facts. And something else, even if this logic of yours applied, so that the guarantee scheme could not be used for the so-called manager's takeover or take over in general, but a bank that is included in the guarantee scheme can, under these conditions, do this, it is indirect aid, we can even say direct aid to the same loans. Due to the fact that the bank is strengthened by the taxpayer's money, it is strengthened by the loans it receives with the State guarantee and thus is strengthened, of course, servicing the managers' takeovers. Even if, let's say, hypothetically, it wasn't a ruse, as you say. That is why you, honourable Members, may have been convinced that this matter is noble. Believe me, they're hiding in the background of these loan reprograms, which is why the banks need money. They care little, I'm sorry, about small and medium-sized enterprises. In countless discussions with bankers over the past few months, I have been when they talk, because there is no credit crunch, credit activities are going on normally. These are banks - in the presence of the finance minister, two bankers said this, Mr Veselinovic and Mr Arhar, in the studio in front of the viewers, that there are no problems with bank credit activities. And the banks need guarantee schemes for those for whom I believe we are here unanimously. Banks need bigger loans and they'll get you through those holes you've made.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u302	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u303	I would like to point out that Article 8 is very clear. It is a prohibition of lending and extending or repaying credits for business purchases by administrations and related persons, it is said to cover a wider range of persons, and some cases that have been quite painful in the past month would have been taken into account here. At the same time, it is a very strong sanction or restriction on the overall credit activity of banks in relation to those undertakings or those owners who have created certain acquisitions by copying existing legislation, in particular the fact that there have been insufficient sanctions. That's how it's going to be a big intervention here. If you want to increase this action further, you can peacefully adopt a law on auditing, separate this problem from lending, auditing, privatisation or these purchases and therefore resolve the problem to the end. Here, restrictions are very severe and these limits are sufficient to allow credit to finance investments, convertibles so that businesses can overcome the crisis and development. Banks that will make more credit for these purposes will, of course, have less resources available for possible lending of other purposes that Slovenian economic policy does not put at the priority. I understand the feelings, the attempt to influence the population, which in no way agrees with these ransoms, but I think this law is quality enough for Parliament to adopt it. Like the Committee on Finance, we have also adopted fairly unanimous amendments and basic laws. I don't think there's any conflict here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u304	I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 21st B-point of the agenda - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the expansion of Slovenia's Slovenia's obligation to the Slovenian Compensation Society D. D. From the credits leased for the financing of Slovenia's compensation company D. D. In the summer of 2009, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Minister of Finance. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u305	Dear Members, honourable Members, the President! Allow me to present to you the issue of financing the Slovenian Compensation Society. In accordance with Parliament's decision in the previous composition, Slovenia's compensation for investments in the telecommunications network is higher than €300 million, and we do not know the exact amount because the claims are coming all the time. To this end, Parliament directed 10% of Telekom Slovenije’s shares to the Compensation Society. It was expected, during the period considered, that the compensation company would be able to sell this on the market and financed by it investments in the telecommunications network. In the meantime, there has been a capital market break, a deep decline in the value of the shares and the sale of Telekom during this period, for the first time, would not have brought enough money to cover the reimbursement of the investments mentioned, and secondly, it would have been pointless from various other aspects. Thus, during the previous term of office, the Indemnity Company has already decided to lease and repay investments. In time, it became increasingly liquidity problems, and so we came to a point where more credit was needed, to pay it up to the end of the debt generated by the various titles, in particular from Telekom's repayment, to wait for the capital market to be strengthened, in order to strengthen the capital market, and then to sell Telekom's shares. Thus, the Indemnity Society, with its role in the Government and then the Government, with a call to Parliament, proposes the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of the Slovenian Indemnity Society for credits hired to finance the Slovenian Indemnity Society. We ask that this law be approved and allowed for the normal financing of this company's obligations, and we expect that this company, at least this telecom part, will be able to repay and repay the loan further. However, for the rest, at the time of the collapse of the capital market, and in particular in the event of some very serious errors in the management of this company, it is likely that we will be forced to recapitalise the Slovenian Compensation Society in order to fulfil its obligation to the end. However, in this case it is a loan, it is secured by the quality shares of Telekom and will be easily paid when the economy stabilises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Honourable Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law as a work force at its meeting on 25 and 26 May 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which did not comment on the text of the law. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 6 of the bill was also forwarded to the Committee. In the context of the opening of the second hearing at the meeting of the Committee on 25 May 2009, the representative of the Government stressed that it was the enforcement of the legal basis for hiring a loan to the Court of Justice with the State guarantee. The applicant notes that Telekom’s shares as a legal source of funding to the Court, given that that company financed its activities from other sources and that the sale was not carried out, no longer constitute that basis. However, since the Court lacks the resources to implement other legal financial obligations relating to the reimbursement of denationalising beneficiaries who are victims of war violence, it is necessary to rent a loan. In the debate, a proposal was first put before the Committee to decide that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The explanation of this proposal for the decision stressed that the clear purpose of the proposed law, for which the State would actually make a guarantee to the Court, cannot be understood from its text. It was also expressed that the procedure itself was necessary as the substantive justification for the adoption of the text under consideration, given that the means of payment of the obligations in the telecommunications network were provided in the State budget, the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the envisaged method and the non-compliance or consistency of the proposed text with the laws or constitution. The Committee decided on such a proposal for a decision and did not adopt it. In the discussion of the individual articles, the Committee's attention was focused primarily on Article 1 of the legislative proposal. In this regard, certain questions were raised, opinions submitted by representatives of the groups and individual views expressed. Among other things, it has been pointed out that there is a lack of clarity with regard to that specific amount of the guarantee envisaged, in particular as regards the scope of individual legal obligations, the adequacy of the guarantee guarantee and the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network under which the resources of the Court are provided, if they are insufficient, from the financial or real property of the State. In response to such concerns, it was pointed out in the next debate that Article 1 exclusively deals with the State guarantee of a loan intended to remedy the financial inefficiencies of the Court. It is not a matter for the Court of Auditors to deliver its decisions, which, in its opinion with reservation, clearly states the wrong title of the Court's obligation. However, the return of shares to taxpayers, if the obligations of the Court are repaid from other sources, seems appropriate. Following the meeting on 26 May 2009, the discussion focused on Articles 1 and 6 of the draft law. Some discussers, the SDS Group of Members, felt that the text of Article 1 was written in a vague or ambiguous manner and was inconsistent with the reasons given for the present law. For this reason, at the proposal of the representative of the SDS Group Zvonka Černač, the proposal for an amendment to the Committee was put to the vote by the Republic of Slovenia to guarantee the obligations of the Court on the basis of the credits which the Court had granted in 2009 to finance its obligations in this year. The guarantee is granted by the Republic of Slovenia for loans up to the total principal amount of EUR 50 million with the corresponding interest on determining the liquidity of the operation of the Court. The amendment to Article 1 was not adopted by the Committee in the text thus submitted. The discussion was also focused on Article 6 which provides for the insurance of the obligations by the flag of Telekom shares received by the Court in accordance with the Law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. A proposal from the SDS Delegation Group was submitted for an amendment to the Committee to guarantee the guarantee of the Court's liability with all its assets. The representative of this delegation then withdrew the amendment to Article 6. The amendment to Article 6 was adopted by the Committee for another reason, which is an amendment to the date of the free transfer contract which did not enter into force 12. 7. As set out in this Article, and with the signature of the Minister of Finance, this happened on 2 August 2007. The adopted amendment is included in the text of the amended law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u308	Mr Rado Likar, you can continue, please, because the positions of the groups of Members are being presented. On behalf of the SDS Group, you have your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u309	Again, thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will vote against a law that increases public debt by €180 million, not for investment, but for investment, but to ensure that the current tasks or ongoing activities of the Slovenian Compensation Society are carried out. The Government explained that the Labour Court needs €370 million this year and that it will run out of €180 million for this state guarantee. The applicant based the necessity of the law on the need to provide the Court with funds for the payment of investments to beneficiaries who invested in the public telecommunications network, since the Slovenian Compensation Company, for which the Republic of Slovenia transferred 653.548 shares of Telekom, has since 2007 been implementing these investments under Articles 11 and 12 of the Law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. And here the government and the ruling coalition were caught in their own trap, as it acknowledged that this was the expenditure of the Court and not the state budget, on which it based its opposition to the final account for 2007. According to the Government, as set out in the explanation of the law, in 2007 the Court reimbursed the beneficiaries slightly over €43 million of investment and in 2008 some over €108 million. This year, however, the Court estimates that it will owe some EUR 50 million to invest under this heading and that the funds are provided in the 2009 budget balance sheet. Therefore, in the SDS Group of Members, we have proposed on the Committee that the law should not be dealt with because it is not necessary. When the ruling coalition voted us out, we proposed amendments, especially to reduce the amount of the guarantee from €180 million to €50 million, as the Court has already paid back its investments in telecommunications for 2007 and 2008. In 2008, it recorded 48.9 million euros in surplus, although the situation in capital markets has deteriorated dramatically in the last quarter. No amendments we have proposed have been adopted. Nor is it clear in this law the purpose of the use of the credit facility for which the State guarantees. Similar laws adopted by the National Assembly in the past clearly set out the purpose, for example, in the case of Dars, are clearly intended in the law, even by indicating the specific motorway sections for which the credit will be used. This law, which we are currently considering, does not provide at all for the purpose of spending resources or provides that the State is providing a guarantee of EUR 180 million for current operations. So government debt is increasing, not for investments, but for new investments, but for current business, which is unacceptable. Especially in these situations when credit funds are needed primarily to increase economic activity and not to spend. The means of recovery to be needed this year are therefore provided and no additional debt is therefore required for this purpose. For all these reasons, we will oppose the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. The proposal for the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the liabilities of the Slovenian Indemnity Company for loans hired to finance the Slovenian Indemnity Company in 2010 of EUR 180 million provides for the settlement of the liquidation of the Court's assets for the settlement of the obligation to return to the public telecommunications network in 2007 and 2008. The Slovenian Compensation Company shall settle the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to invest in the public telecommunications network in accordance with the Law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. To this end, in 2007 the Republic of Slovenia transferred 10% of the shares of Telekom Slovenije, d.d., as a source of funding for those liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2007 and 2008, the Court sold obligations under the law on repayment from its own resources or from leased loans in 2008 and at the beginning of this year 653.548 shares of Telekom transferred by the State to the Court were not sold, as provided for by the Law on the return of investments to the telecommunications network. The sale, however justified, was stopped at the beginning of last November. The total return on investment in 2007 and 2008 is EUR 151.7 million. To return in 2009, €50 million is provided for in the State budget. As it falls to EUR 370 million in 2009 in legal obligations of the Court without the above-mentioned obligation to invest in a telecommunications network which the Court is unable to settle without replacing it with its funds engaged in the return of investments in the telecommunications network in 2007 and 2008. To this end, the Court will rent a loan with a three-year grace period, and in this way the obligations under this Title will be distributed for the period after 2012. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The position of the DeSUS Group is in terms of supporting this proposal of the Guarantees Act. We all know that Slovenia, as a rule of law, is also committed to respect for law and law, so we must also implement what laws impose on us. In the case that we are now talking about, it is that the State has caused certain injustices that must be settled as a fundamental debtor. And we know that in the previous mandate, not in this case, a law has been passed which has passed on these corrections to the Slovenian Compensation Society with resources. Let us recall that by doing so we wanted to ensure, what is right, fair compensation, that we also wanted to ensure proper implementation with resources, that this, unfortunately, did not happen entirely in reality. In the past two years, the Court has reimbursed compensation, namely, in a substantial amount, some 150 million euros in 2007 and 2008, which is already in the past mandate. That is why the source was not used at the time, and we have just heard that the sale of shares stopped just before the end of the previous year. So the source wasn't secure. However, the State's obligations to the Slovenian Compensation Society remained. Therefore, the State also has its obligations to help solve the problems created by this. The aid needed is aid in the sense of supporting the hire of a loan from the Slovenian Indemnity Company in such a way as to provide a guarantee, a guarantee for it. At the same time, the State is trying to protect itself by establishing the flag of these shares and, in fact, the flag of these shares was a fundamental problem or source of conflict on the Finance Committee. Some of the proposals proposed by the opposition have also been rejected by us and also by what will now be a proposal to accept that they are, with all their assets, a flag right, we will not support. We will support the amendment, which will be put in place to ensure that, if necessary, the appropriateness of the date recorded in this law and when this amendment is adopted, if it is tabled, I think that it is not yet or is on the table, we will support the amendment and the law. In this way we will ensure that what is in fact the fundamental purpose of this law, that beneficiaries reach the resources they have to wait for for a long time, some have already received this in 2007 and others are still waiting today. And for these others, for these 50 million, the funds are provided. Let me mention that they are embarrassed not only in the Court of Justice but also in a number of municipalities where they have to provide return information and where they have to explain to people who rightly resent the great delays in these returnees why this has occurred. We therefore support the proposal for a law in this sense in order to ensure that the guarantee is guaranteed and that the people entitled to it reach these funds as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Two very, I think, useful, yet difficult sessions of the mother's working body are behind us. In the Slovenian National Party we are a little bit, we do not understand all of this story, which takes place around the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia, where we first find that the Slovenian Compensation Society for 2009 has around €370 million in legal obligations, that over €150 million is out of income due to investment in the public telecommunications network. Furthermore, we can read in the explanation how the fact that the Slovenian compensation company fulfils its obligations by its nature is a state. In reviewing the articles, I have asked some of the first questions, the main questions, which are the outstanding obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society. I have received a reply that these are obligations in the field of denationalisation, the content of compensations to victims of war and post-war violence and the settlement of damages from criminal sanctions. These are obligations which are adopted by law and for which, according to colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, they are expected to have a legal obligation in the Court of Justice. It's about a loan of up to 180 million euros, and a very precise answer, I also asked why up to 180 million euros, I didn't get it. And the most important question is in nine years, as I recall, in this National Assembly we have accepted quite a few guarantees from this country and the key question is on Day X or Day D, if you want, if any of those to whom the State has given the guarantee will not be able to repay the loan, or if this country will be able to pay all the guarantees. Although I have received an answer that on the assumption that the capital revenues of all those involved come and so on. I really doubt it. Finally, it is a vital question of who this guarantee would serve. Or the Court, in order to settle something that it knows to be settled and to have the means to do so, whether this guarantee will help denationalising beneficiaries, victims of war and post-war violence, or beneficiaries of criminal sanctions, and not least to the extent that some of the beneficiaries of the Return to Public Telecommunications Act are considered, which does not smell very good to us in the Slovenian National Party, because there is too much hole, too many unfulfilled obligations and certainly they are not due to a half-year recession. Of course, the content of Article 3 is also problematic, which states that the Republic of Slovenia will, on the basis of a written call from the creditor, if the Court is unable to repay the loan, settle the outstanding liabilities instead of the Slovenian Compensation Society. That means up to €180 million. In Article 6, however, the insurance is offered by the Court in the form of shares of Telekom Slovenije. These are worth about 100 million euros today, but they were already 300. They were worth as much as a barrel of holes. Do we believe that we will wait for the market to calm down and that the value of the shares will rise, that the guarantee will be paid? Not me, and neither in the Slovenian National Party. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u316	Mr. Magg has the word. Crane on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Since the 2009 budget did not provide for funds to fill the financial gap of the Slovenian Compensation Company, which was created in the settlement of obligations under the Law on the Return of Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, we have before us the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which will allow the Slovenian Compensation Society a long-term debt under the said guarantee. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, the Court settled its obligation to return to the public telecommunications network, which was planned to cover an inflow of 10% of Telekom's shares. As this inflow fell, the Court settled this obligation from its own resources and from its short-term indebtedness to banks. As a result of these established own resources for obligations under the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, according to the applicant, the fulfilment of the denationalisation and other legal obligations settled by the Court and the long-term obligation to do so requires the adoption of the proposed law. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will give his position to the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to the Minister, my colleagues and my colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will be the law that solves the unloving situation, but is good for people, certainly supported. Therefore, of course, from this city I also express the surprise that those who have, of course, advocated the return of funds to the public telecommunications network, now that it is necessary to provide funds, to pay the money, we oppose it. I am pleased that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we keep our word, our commitment, so that those citizens and citizens who are, of course, entitled to these funds by law will certainly get what belongs to them this year. This is also our purpose and the main objective of upholding the law. The fact is also that, of course, the State Interest Guarantee Act of the Slovenian Indemnity Company provides a legal basis for the Slovenian Indemnity Company to be able to rent EUR 100 80 million of credit and, of course, for this credit, because there were no funds in the budget, the State will provide a guarantee. In recent years, the Court has also received 10% of Telekom’s shares in order to pay the beneficiaries of public telecommunications investments by selling them and by cutting them off, because Telekom has not sold himself in recent years and this moment is also a bad time and a bad situation for this sale, and it seems fair and fair to expect better times to come through the sale of shares. Then, of course, we'll get those funds back. The Court began its obligation to pay in 2007, but not by means of funds originating from the sale of shares, but from funds originating from other activities. The court today does not have these funds and we provide them with a guarantee. That is why, in the Group of Liberal Democracy, we will support this solution in force. However, we would point out that, of course, the payment of the Slovenian Compensation Society is also important in some other areas, not only in the field of investment in the public telecommunications network, but that it also pays significant compensation under the War Compensation Act, that it plays an important role in the completion of denationalisation procedures and, of course, in the payment of compensation under the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. However, it seems important to us, even fair and correct, to point out that, in our view and in the opinion of the Court of Auditors, the Slovenian Compensation Company has been operating negatively in the past year. During that period, it showed 8 million euros in losses, not as some tried to show us that the Court of Justice had 37 million Euros plus. I'm happy, clean accounts, good friends. But what we promised and assured the people must be given and paid. I am pleased that at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia tonight we will contribute votes that will finally be paid to people who have difficulty waiting for funds invested in the telecommunications network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will give her position to the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u321	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats will support the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law for the obligations of the Slovenian Indemnity Society on loans hired to finance the Slovenian Indemnity Society. The purpose of this law is to ensure that in 2009 the Slovenian Compensation Society will have the financial resources provided under the Denationalisation Act, in order to pay for those obligations which the Slovenian Compensation Society has under the Denationalisation Act and to remedy the injustices. The fact is that, for the liabilities under the telecommunications infrastructure, the EUR 50 million provided for in the 2009 budget balance is a drawback, which means that even Telekom shares do not need to be sold and there is no need to rent credits for this purpose. Well, let me say this: that the Slovenian Compensation Society needs about €180 million to do so, and the Republic of Slovenia will, if we adopt the law, make the guarantee possible for the Slovenian Compensation Society to achieve the optimal conditions for borrowing and thus reduce the opportunity cost of borrowing credit. The law also sets out the way in which the guarantee is secured, namely with the shares of Telekom which the company received free of charge, in order to be able to pay the liabilities to the beneficiaries for the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. At the time these shares were given to the Court, their value was EUR 324 million. Today, with none sold, their value is around EUR 100 million. It is said that, in fact, it is completely pointless today to sell these shares, and when the time was right, the then government said that they should not be sold. As a result, the Court paid back from its assets both in 2007 and 2008 and presented this payment as a loan granted to the Government or the Republic of Slovenia. This has also led to the misrepresentation of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia in the final budget account. This would probably be the same for 2008 when 108 million identical loans were also granted to the Republic of Slovenia because it could be the Court, not because it thus showed its own resources, instead of renting the company itself and providing the security with Telekom’s shares, it rather indebted the country and will then be displayed under balance sheet B in 2008 as the Republic of Slovenia’s debt for this money. Well, the fact is that it has drained part of its portfolio and it has come to the point that this year's money is running out of payments for the liabilities it was set up in the first place. The fact is that they mean denationalisation and compensation for the injustices committed in the past so much that, despite the fact that the Slovenian compensation company boasted with great financial success at a time when the stock balloon was inflated to disability, it has come to the point that now that the shares have fallen, the financial capacity of the Slovenian Compensation Society is much worse and should therefore be given this guarantee. We will therefore also make sure that we vote in favour of this law, because otherwise the state will not be able to meet its obligations in the context of denationalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Once again, given that the groups of Members have not announced time to discuss the amendments to this agenda item, I propose that, on the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure, each of the panellists who has declared an amendment may only discuss the amendment once. We will vote on that. We're voting. The vote is under way. I find that the vote has not been successful. Let us therefore re-vote. The vote is under way. Even now, the vote has not been successful. I'm adjourning the choir session in 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, we'll make that decision for the third time. We'll pick it up at 9:02.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u323	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We are voting on the proposal that, on the basis of Article 67, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, any declared debater may only discuss the individual amendment once. This is a third vote. Please, we're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Does anyone want to discuss this article? I'm guessing no one wants to discuss the amendment to this, please. [[...]] I could have tried very hard to get one. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] I'm asking you to sign up. [[...]] The word is Love Lycar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u324	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party submits an amendment to Article 6 by guaranteeing the guarantee obligation under this Act, the Court guarantees all its assets and not only its shares. This is justified by the fact that the value of Telekom's shares is lower than the amount of the loan, and therefore these shares would not be sufficient, so we suggest that it guarantees all its assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 21st C.P.D. - REFERENCE PROPOSAL OF A WORK REPAYMENT OF PAYMENT, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I wonder if the government's representatives are around? So? I'm sorry, the minister's not sitting in his seat, so I didn't recognize him. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u326	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The First Intervention Act, the Law on partial full-time subsidisation, which, through additional financial incentives to reduce full-time employment, helps employers, has produced positive results, particularly in those companies where, due to the reduction of contracts, these orders are only up to 20% lower. However, as the crisis deepens and the business situation of some employers continues to deteriorate, additional measures need to be taken to maintain jobs, particularly in companies with up to 50% business cuts. The proposed intervention law aims to preserve as many jobs as possible in the context of the global economic crisis, with the aim of keeping as many people working as possible and thereby preserving their rights and reducing the pressure on open unemployment. The law provides for up to 25,000 inclusions. The second objective is to train employees in these companies to acquire new skills and skills and their qualifications or retraining. It's the development dimension of the law. The proposed intervention law may include all economic companies, cooperatives, employers as natural persons who employ workers in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act that will meet the requirements of the law. On the basis of the intervention law, the State is expected to enter a partial refund on salaries paid in cases where the employer, due to the poor business situation resulting from the global economic crisis, will not be able to provide work at the same time for a maximum of 50% of the employees and will send them on a temporary wait for work. However, an individual worker will be able to wait for a period of up to six months for a period of 12 months, allowing companies sufficient flexibility in organising the work process. Workers are entitled to a salary refund of 85% of the basic salary provided for in the Labour Relations Act, which cannot be lower than the statutory minimum wage. According to the bill, the country will co-finance part of this compensation, 50% of the base and 35% of the employer. It is important to stress that this relationship will not always be the same, as the country's contribution is limited to the highest level of unemployment compensation of eight hundred and five euros and the employer's contribution will be higher in the event of high wages. Of course, no compensation should fall below the minimum wage. Within the meaning of the development component of the proposed intervention law, the employer will have to adopt a programme to maintain and improve the quality of jobs and human resources, according to which a worker who will be posted on temporary waiting for work will be provided with training either in the organisation or outside of it and the country will be able to reimburse him for training costs of up to EUR 500 per worker, which will be financed by the European Social Fund. [[ESS]] . Since the purpose of this law is to maintain jobs, the employer will not be allowed to cancel employment contracts for business reasons during this period when the measure is included. Nor will he be allowed to impose overtime and to account for the remuneration of the management and control authorities. Employers will be able to submit applications to the Employment Office by 31 March 2010. A total of EUR one hundred and and a half million is allocated for the implementation of the law, of which EUR forty-four and a half million this year, in the next forty-four and in 2011 twenty million. And another twelve and a half for training. The supervision is ensured through the supervision of the institution, which will review the documents and also supervise the implementation of this law in the field, and the inspection of the work will carry out its control on the ground. Criminal provisions are also provided for violators of this law and, of course, including the refund of subsidies. We believe that this law has given us an instrument that will significantly reduce the rate of inflow between the unemployed and contribute to their development or development of human resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u327	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and disabled persons to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič for his presentation of the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Good evening, Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 7th emergency meeting, on 20 June. 5. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Government's Proposal for a Law on Partial Remuneration of Wages, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill under urgent procedure. Mr Ivan Svetlik, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Commercial Activities of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and representatives of trade unions, namely the Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia - Independence, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments to Articles 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 19 and 20 from a legislative technical point of view. The members of the Committee also received the opinion of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council, which supported the bill and was briefly presented by a representative of the Council of State. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation tabled an amendment to Article 2. The Committee was also presented with proposals for amendments to the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises, the Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia - Independence and Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Members of the Committee also received proposals from the Committee's amendments following the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and being fully adopted by the Committee. Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, introduced a complementary explanation of the bill. In the debate on individual proposed solutions, the Committee members discussed Article 2 of the Law. With regard to the provision of Article 2 governing the Institute of Temporary Waiting for Work, the amendments tabled by the SDS Group to this Article and the amendments proposed by the amendment have been further discussed. The most attention was paid to the amendment proposal in order to include employers who employ only one worker in the provision of this Article. Following further discussion, no agreement was reached on the amendment and the Committee did not adopt the amendment. The bill was supported by all parliamentary groups. All the debaters agreed that marriage was necessary. Some believe that it is too late and others believe it is ready at the right time and good. The debate raised the issue of the harmonisation of the law with the social partners. The Minister stressed that the law was harmonised. This was also confirmed by representatives of the social partners who explained that they had not found a common language only in Articles 6 and 12, and therefore did not decide to fully support the Economic and Social Council proposal and to harmonise that they did not agree with the said Articles. They pointed out that they had cooperated in the text from the beginning and that it was essential for them that the law was adopted as soon as possible and that, as such, it was also agreed in the Economic and Social Council. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee drew up and adopted amendments to Articles 2, 6, 8, 11, 14, 16, 19, 20 and 21. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u329	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Vito Rožej on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u330	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on Partial Remuneration and Remuneration is one of a series of crisis measures, an intervention law which, according to the Government, is expected to maintain up to 25,000 jobs in companies facing reduced operating volumes. It is clear that some logical continuation of the Law on partial full-time subsidisation aimed primarily at those employers whose orders have decreased to 20% due to the effects of the economic crisis, due to an even greater decline in export demand. In key Slovenian markets, situations are even worse in some activities, and further measures need to be taken to preserve jobs and to alleviate the situation of the economy and employees. The aim of this law, the already mentioned retention of up to 25 thousand jobs and especially the new category is possible training of employees, is what can give us hope. It has already been said that in most of the parliamentary groups, if not all, the opinion that the law is appropriate, is good, while some think it is too late, but given the long coordination with the social partners, perhaps it was not even possible to be given to our table before it was. It is a temporary law which minimally interferes with existing system solutions to labour law and social security systems. However, the law follows in principle equal treatment, especially for employees and employers. It must be said, however, that the Committee may have different perceptions of the various status forms of employers, that in short the d.o.o.s, share companies are organised differently than, say, self-employed and that there have also been some disagreements in the amendments. Of course, it must be said that the amendment tabled today by the Coalition's parliamentary groups is such that this disagreement removes in some way the rights of all workers to benefit from this law as well as of employers. It should be known, however, that all employers cannot be exactly the same according to their status. I don't know if later the debate on the amendment will show this difference or help smooth them out. This law introduces a new institute of temporary waiting for work and I think that, in particular, with the effects of additional training, this law could be the one that would help the Slovenian economy come out of this crisis more prepared than it has entered. 85% of the resources for training workers will be provided from the European Social Fund, but of course this law will not be able to shake the perceptions to allow certain abuses, but we hope that the services of the Ministry, and, of course, here their responsibility is great, and the Employment Office, here they can be thorough. In the Group of Members, we will truly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u331	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u332	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Partial Reimbursement of Wages. Similar solutions have been used in some countries for many years, and we think they are good. The bill is also important because it does not merely provide for the remuneration of wages, but will require the employer to submit a programme to prove that the crisis is so great that it needs help, but not so much that the aid does not fall behind. At the same time, it will have to draw up a programme to improve jobs and direct workers to education, which will be partly financed by the State in the amount of EUR 500 from the European funds. According to our assessment, the way this law foresees is good. Workers stay on hold, are active, their knowledge and acquired skills do not wear off and disappear into oblivion. They maintain their acquired abilities and can return to work at any time, if necessary. However, in the DeSUS Group, we are mainly afraid of two problems. The first is that the legal act does not specify what the laboratory should be. We hope that, for the sake of easier organisation and preparation of such programmes, the Government will keep its promise and prepare an appropriate form. Another problem is that it is not defined which training programme will be appropriate. We hope that employers will be able to prepare for workers a way of education that will benefit both the worker and the employer in the next period. The DeSUS Group will also support the joint amendment of the coalition, which addresses the issue of those who have only one employee employed and who, in view of the different perceptions of employees and such enterprises, have not adopted an appropriate solution and have already supported it on the Committee, will, with this amendment, be saved and the law will be fully as it should be, and will be supported by the parliamentary group in the proposal as it is, along with the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a partial refund law is fully acceptable for the Slovenian National Party. The bill provides that a worker will be entitled to a remuneration of 85% of his salary, from the total amount of his salary, which will also be subsidised by the State during the temporary waiting period. The purpose of the adoption of this law today is likely to be an intervention law, in order to maintain some way 25,000 jobs in companies facing a reduced volume of business, and that is a good thing. During the recession, such a measure is necessary, and this is one of those measures that we welcome in the Slovenian National Party, although it is possible that more energy should be invested by the Government and the Ministry of Labour in opening new jobs. On this occasion, I should reiterate the view of the Slovenian National Party that it would be good and wise to also find money, opportunities and ways to invest in those parts of companies that want to develop new products, thereby creating new jobs, new added value and also enriching the tax field for which we are also collecting money for such purposes, good purposes as this today. This year, EUR 24.5 million will be provided for the implementation of the law and this will have to be taken from the budget. If we do not open new jobs, invest in new sophisticated knowledge and new products, thus also creating a good tax field, which we know must be matured, polluted, I believe we will get to the point where we will not find money for such programmes. Therefore, my appeal and my appeal to the parties to find measures in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u335	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u336	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support any measure that helps solve the economic crisis. We support the main purpose of the intervention law, that is to maintain jobs in the context of the global economic crisis and to aim to keep as many people as possible in a working relationship. We also support the proposed conditions for us to commit employers not to initiate cancellation procedures for business reasons, and under certain conditions they will not be allowed to impose overtime. It is also understandable and necessary that such undertakings should not account for and pay awards to the authorities of management and control. In the SLS Group, we are particularly careful to consider proposals if they are also appropriate for small businesses and for agriculture. We note that the proposal did not allow for a level playing field for small businesses that employ only one worker or worker besides the owner. It is not right for small micro-enterprises to be excluded from this law, since every job is precious. Are their taxes paid to the State less valuable? We cannot agree with the claim that these are self-employed and therefore are not subject to consideration in the Economic and Social Council, as their job is therefore no less important or less valuable. Self-employed craftsmen cannot be regarded as second-class entrepreneurs. We also wanted to table an appropriate amendment for this purpose, so we support the SDS amendment and we are pleased that the coalition has also found it necessary after the resolution. The proposal for a law in the second indent of Article 2(2) provides that the proposed measure is entitled to remuneration by an employer who, for business reasons, is temporarily unable to provide work at the same time to a maximum of 50 % of the employees. There was no exception for an employer with only one employee by law. As far as such exceptions are not provided for in the law, it is discriminatory for employers who employ one worker and for entrepreneurs who have one employee. So the work is done by two persons, an operator and an employee. Since the coalition, through the amendment, has provided an appropriate solution that the law applies to all entities, including small and micro enterprises, we will also be pleased to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u338	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering the Law on Partial Reimbursement of Wages, which we understand as one of the crisis laws, which is in substance similar to the Law on Partial Full-time Subsidisation, and this law is intended for those companies which have been affected by the economic crisis more deeply, because the Law on Full-time Subsidisation was intended to target companies that are expected to fall in production up to 20%, while this law is intended to target those who are expected to have reduced economic activities up to 50%. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy, we also make it clear that in the past years, when companies could be restructured, they were witnessing measures that were not favourable to companies. One of these is certainly the abolition of the facility for investment in equipment that could enable companies to be significantly more competitive in these difficult times. It is also extremely important that the Government has succeeded in preparing the content of this law through social dialogue and that the law is supported within the framework of the Economic Social Council. Those open issues, i.e. fundamental issues, were agreed upon, and some of the issues that remained open were resolved by the Government in some way by a mandate within the framework of an agreement on the Economic and Social Council. It is extremely important in the content of this law that the proposed law, in addition to the social dimension, includes a development dimension. This seems extremely important to us once again, as the social dimension is expressed through the preservation of employment and the receipt of wage compensation, thereby reducing the unemployment of workers, and developmental through the provision of pre-qualification training or pre-qualifications for workers while waiting for work. This seems crucial to us in this law and very important, because the structure of the Slovenian economy is actually calling for a transformation to ensure greater added value in its production. We would also like to point out that the question arises as to whether the Government for the reservation of two hundred and thirty million in the balance sheet of the budget had hidden ambitions that these funds would earmark for the so-called payment to the deleted. Today, we see that, of course, the funds of 100 million will also be provided from this balance sheet item for this measure, and we are confident that the objective, that is to ensure employment of about fifty thousand workers, will be achieved. We will, of course, support the law at the LDS. That is why, together in the coalition, we have given very important attention to the question of how to resolve those companies that have only one employee. And we were looking for the solution and the amendment that we are proposing here together in the coalition follows that those who have only one employee be allowed to be included in this law. If it is found that, for business reasons, the employer cannot provide work for a total of 50% of the employee’s working time per calendar month. This solution seems extremely important to us, because in this way we put all workers in a perfectly equal position with the measures envisaged. As I have already said, in the LDS Club, we support the law and, of course, we want temporary waiting measures to serve as few businesses as possible, for a simple reason, because we want the economy to recover as soon as possible and to establish normal economic conditions, that is, operating conditions and, of course, not to keep the workers waiting for work, but to be exposed to the cycle of new employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u340	The Law on Partial Reimbursement of Remuneration of Wages proposed by the Government for Admission by Emergency Procedure means the continuation of measures by which the Government wishes to facilitate the situation of the economy and at the same time to protect employees. By its very nature, it represents a temporary measure. It represents an upgrade to the first intervention law in this so-called social area, the Law on partial full-time subsidisation following what has been the world situation or the global economic crisis has continued to deepen and therefore there is a need to take further measures to preserve jobs and to alleviate the situation of the economy, i.e. employees. In our view, the proposed law has four essential qualities. Firstly, it introduces a new institute, an institute of temporary waiting for work, with the burden shared by the state and the employer, and their cooperation can be interpreted as a form of cooperation in which both partners gain "win-win game". Another time. In the spirit of what this Government is doing, in fact, this law represents the implementation of these efforts, the new law combines both social and development objectives. Social objectives are reflected in the creation of conditions for job retention or employment in companies facing lower levels of business, the preservation of workers' rights, and the reduction of the transition of these workers to outright unemployment. The development objectives, however, are reflected in the provision or necessity of employers to ensure that employees are up-to-date or re-qualified, and at the same time provide a description of the business situation and an assessment of the possibility of retaining the jobs of pending workers for the future. The measure is therefore intended for those companies that have this future. And the fourth time. The important quality of the law is also that it has been prepared in cooperation and with the consent of the social partners, with which the Government realizes the intention that all the more important documents will be adopted in the social communication process, although this sometimes takes a little longer. We believe that this is certainly worth it and that this is actually the implementation of the European standard in this area. On the basis of the intervention law, the State will enter part of the remuneration paid in cases where the employer, due to a poor business situation, will not be able to provide work to a maximum of 50% of the employees and will send them on temporary leave to work and will also provide part of the resources for the training of workers amounting to EUR 500 per worker. The proposed intervention law for so-involved companies, cooperatives as well as employers, natural persons who employ workers, with the proposed amendments that we have placed on the table, also follows the principle of equal treatment of all employees. I would like to point out once again by referring to the Committee's debate that we have continued to seek a compromise that meets to the fullest extent all the requirements that have been made at the time of consideration of the proposed law. That is how we think the amendment, which also allows employers with one employee to exploit this law, is the right solution. At the same time as the Social Democrats, we stress that we hope that these employers who will benefit from the measure will be able to fully comply with all the provisions of the law. We appeal to the Ministry to exercise proper control over the fact that this will indeed be done. Since the purpose of the intervention law is to preserve jobs, the employer will not be allowed to initiate a procedure for the termination of the employment contract or the cancellation of the employment contract for business reasons during the period of inclusion in the measure of partial reimbursement of salaries, nor will he, under certain conditions, be allowed to impose overtime and to pay the awards to the authorities of management and control, we believe that this is also sufficient for the purposes of the law. For all of this, both the proposed law and the proposed amendments will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u342	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a partial remuneration bill, so we will support it. The introduction mentions that, in essence, there is a third continuation of the content that began with the law on partial full-time subsidisation and the novelty of this law by the State Council, which we did not oppose, despite the coalition's observations that the opposition merely opposes their proposals. The fact is that, contrary to the practice of the work of the executive and legislative branches of power at this time, it is very noticeable that the opposition is, above all, the most active in initiatives and legislative proposals. The Minister of Labour is even one of the more active ministers, and we support him in this direction, because his colleagues are not preparing for European elections in the manner of their colleagues, and he is not so quick to recruit and does not say that he pays his own coffee. At the hearing of this Act on partial full-time subsidisation, we have pointed out several dilemmas in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which have proved to be well founded or warned of by various unions, employers, workers who lack patience and, above all, numbers that show an alarming increase in the number of unemployed, bankrupt and non-receiving wages. This is an economic, financial and social crisis of the global dimension, and international analyses have made it clear that, unfortunately, Slovenia is lagging behind. This means that the government's solutions are inadequate, inadequate, uncoordinated, too late and incomplete. Unfortunately, however, a large number of amendments also show. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the law is positive as it allows temporary waiting for work with employers who face a lower level of business and want to maintain jobs, with part of the burden being taken over by the State. The purpose of the law is to maintain up to twenty-five thousand jobs in companies facing reduced levels of business and training of employees in these companies and the acquisition of new skills and skills and their qualifications or retraining. During the waiting period, workers will be entitled to a salary refund of 85% of the compensation base. The burden of this compensation is borne by employers of 35% and the remaining 50% by the State. Workers on temporary leave of absence have the right and duty to train during this period. Employers are obliged to provide training for workers at this time and the country is co-financed by EUR 500 per worker. As we can see, the details are those that separate good things from bad things, and there are several questions that arise in this law. I'll talk about the amendment proposal later. However, let me draw attention to the facts at this point, which the Slovenian Democratic Party believes are not sufficiently sophisticated, and therefore the law will not in practice offer everything that is expected of it. It may be necessary to consider the distribution of remuneration according to age, the questionable control over the allocation of funds, the penalties are too mild, there are no marriage indicators who would go towards greater convincing of work in black, there is no prohibition in the law that the employer who serves this measure should not offer student work if the work can be done with workers on temporary leave. There are still questionable standards here, because an employer can help workers who are not waiting for a higher standard. The issue of asset recovery is raised as the law does not specifically refer to the recovery of funds or their proportional work. We need to set a time limit within which the employer has to repay the funds received. The question is whether the Employment Office will be able to do these additional work at all and where the funds will be provided. We are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I must stress this in particular that this law should come, so it should have been adopted four, five or six months ago, so that it would not now be in the Employment Office of almost thirty thousand unemployed and the effect of the adopted law would have been consistent with its intent. Here it is clear how right the Slovenian Democratic Party is to warn the Government that it is seriously delaying measures that could prevent a number of bankruptcy and thus preserve jobs that are of strategic importance in this crisis. We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u343	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Given that the parliamentary groups have not announced time to discuss the amendments to this agenda item, I propose that, on the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, every declared debater should discuss the amendments tabled to each article only once. We're moving to the vote. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 15. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. I shall put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment under order number 1 of the SD, ZARES, DeSUS and LDS groups, and the amendment under number 2 of the SDS Group. Someone wants to discuss these amendments. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Marjan Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll support the amendments, not everything in a row. First of all, Article 2, which solves the problem created by the committee and managed to resolve it. In fact, this amendment puts the whole law into practice. And in my opinion, this intervention law is one of the best laws ever adopted. Someone earlier said we should have taken him six months ago. I agree, but six months ago, or some day more, it could have been accepted by the former government, not this government. The law is coordinated, as many have already said, completely, so I see no problem. What is most encouraging is that it will maintain 25,000 jobs, that we have allocated 108 million for this purpose, and most excitingly, 12 million for the education of workers who will be on hold. Personally, I am most pleased that these workers under this law will not appear on the Red Cross and on the Karitas, as someone who has left God and the country, but will be able to spend a decent time when the employer will find it difficult to find enough work for all his employees. This is the advantage of not producing the poor in this country, but helping people. And in the hope that this law will have as short a life as possible, because once it is withdrawn, companies will be re-ordered and production will be re-launched wherever it staggers at the moment. I would honestly say that the Minister of Labour and Family has done a great job of taking care of this work and commending him on his own behalf, and his entire team. I think the law is in time. For our opposers, it will never be timely because nothing is right for them, and nothing is good for them. They want to do as much as possible, and they want to say as many bad words as possible, so that viewers and TV audiences can only see them caring for workers and how they are doing and how they would act if they were in power. Unfortunately, at this point, we're the ones who take care of it, and I think we're taking very good care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u345	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u346	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I am pleased that in this law we have all listened together to the expectations of the small economy and, with the amendment that has been tabled, we have also provided the possibility of participating in this anti-crisis measure to businesses or independent entrepreneurs and businesses that employ only one worker. In this law, I agree with all those who have said that they have both social and developmental connotations. In this regard, I would like to draw particular attention to this development aspect. In social terms, it seems to me that it is an important and smart alternative to forgiveness, and I believe that this measure, which complements a subsidised full-time measure, can reduce alarming figures on new and new unemployed. Well, what is a developmental component and what we should all think about together more than once, even though it is already embedded in the government's anti-crisis measures in a significant part, is an opportunity to restructure the Slovenian economy. Minister Svetlik repeatedly points out that the only way to ensure better wages for our people is to work more and better, to work more complex products and more complex services, thereby increasing the added value and the resultant reward for people. The possibility of this restructuring is also incorporated into this law through training programmes. I would just like to call on the Ministry to offer, through the Employment Office, businesses that will be involved in this measure, what the President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been advocating all the time in his mission. In view of the fact that there is an important room for manoeuvre to open the door for participation in the non-governmental sector, NGOs that can offer, with their knowledge, programmes that exist today to businesses important assistance in training these employees, in building their new skills, and last but not least, the entrepreneurship centres, existing educational institutions and so on. I'd be happy to support the marriage, as well as the coalition amendment. Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u347	Dear President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be very pleased to support the amendment, which we have also tabled on the Committee. However, I think it is very important, and I must stress and say that we have talked a lot about this amendment on the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs. There were also representatives of the social partners, who were very clear, at least some of them, pointing to this problem, which occurred that those who had one employee were not taken into account in this law. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has also made it very clear that this law is discriminatory. I will read the explanation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, quote: "The draft law in the second indent of Article 2(2) stipulates that the measure is justified by an employer who temporarily cannot provide work for business reasons, at the same time a maximum of 50% of the employees." Such discrimination in law means that an employer with only one employee cannot exercise the right under this law at all. Such restrictions in relation to the other provisions of the draft law are certainly discriminatory to employers who employ only one worker, i.e. those who are employed in a status form, i.e. employees who employ one worker. In fact, two persons, the operator of an activity which is secured by the conduct of an activity and by the worker, are engaged in the work. This explanation makes it very clear that this law discriminates against those who have one employee. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also insisted on this committee that this amendment be included and that this amendment also be supported by all coalition parties at this committee's own meeting, but was totally rejected. No coalition party voted in favour of this amendment. Today, however, I see an amendment coming to the table that is supposed to solve this problem to some point. I don't understand, for a few days, it was just a difference, and suddenly the coalition changed its mind to what we, the Slovenian Democratic Party, had very clearly pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. I really don't get it. Although, thank God, I would argue that this amendment, which has also come from coalition partners, solves this problem, but the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party makes it more clear and very clear what we wanted to achieve with this amendment that this law will not discriminate against those entrepreneurs and craftsmen who have one employee. We will therefore be happy to support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u348	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Croat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! I must say that we finally have a second law on the table, which is more specific and which could have an impact on the relief of this crisis, in which Slovenia also found itself. Many amendments have been tabled on the committee, as evidenced by the fact that the law was in some way prepared, although it has been coordinated for a long time, a little less prepared. Well, I have to say that our only amendment, which my colleague has already talked about, is that he talks about micro-employers and those who have one employee, was eventually rejected. But I'd like to talk about it a little later. Another concrete law that could kind of ease the crisis. I'm glad we finally got it, or it's late, at least for a month, but we still have it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I will support it myself. I hope that this law will be more effective than the first one that is similar, so I am talking about full-time subsidies. We have to say it honestly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u350	Dear fellow Croat, since it is a late hour, perhaps we should just focus more on the amendment itself. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u351	See, we are talking about Article 2, which is crucial, and in Article 2, all of this is included, which is what I am now talking about. Mr President, you can read it and you will see that Article 2 speaks exactly what I am talking about. These applications for subsidies, as discussed in the law we adopted, have virtually stopped. 480 contracts have been concluded, 230 million euros have been allocated in the budget, and only 10 million are actually spent. It is true that there is now plenty of room for the means of this law. Today there are 84,000 unemployed people in Slovenia, 25% more than at the end of the year. I think it's right that we finally got this law that will somehow help. The aim of the ministry, as stated in the paper, is to maintain some 25,000 jobs. I don't know how we're gonna figure this out. I hope that's true. I would like to see more of them preserved, but I would rather see that this law should not be enforced at all. We tabled this amendment following the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which speaks of micro employers. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also claimed that this law was discriminatory in some way to them. And I'm glad that in these three days we've been able or you've been able to make so much sense that you've prepared an amendment that at least roughly sums up what we've talked about on the committee a lot. Why is this amendment so important? Because the crisis has affected everything, regardless of whether it is s.p. but it's d.o.o. The crisis has taken over everything and it is right to help all those who need help. However, since the law was harmonised in the Economic and Social Council, it would be difficult to agree, at least in the light of the debate which was on the Committee and which was at times quite turbulent. And I'd hardly say it was coordinated. On conclusion, I suggest we support our amendment. Nevertheless, it is more clear, more explicit, why or when it will be used. Since I know how things work in the National Assembly, I expect you to reject ours and accept yours. If there is a vote later on yours, I will also support it, because it nevertheless saves this segment of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? I'm asking you to sign up. First of all, Minister Ivan Svetlik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I have some explanations to make about this debate. First of all, as to the position taken by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, or the Chamber of Commerce, to the proposal we have put forward. I must say that the Chamber is part of the social dialogue, has participated in the process, unfortunately it has come up with this idea a little late, which has caused some discomfort to the other social partners, including the applicants. Why, in fact, it was difficult to accept such an amendment, despite the lenientness you have shown in the SDS amendment, and why we initiated an alternative solution, there are two main reasons. The amendment proposed would put all employers in an unequal position. We want them in the same position, regardless of the status form, both sps and d.o.o.-j. We can't make any difference here if we want to be sensitive to everyone. And I would also put the workers in an unequal position, because in the end, I would in this case provide to certain employers one single worker or one employer that he has 100% of the workers on hold, not just as the law provides for the other employers. For these reasons, if we want to be consistent and have a consistent solution, in fact this amendment has not been sufficiently weighed and assigned. However, I must stress that the Economic and Social Council has in some way authorized the Ministry to come with its solution in Articles 6 and 12. It is clear that we respect the two social partners who decide to do so, and we have come up with such a solution. We can't order their consent. And if they found out for themselves that they had reached the point where they left the decision to the Ministry, we had to take it ourselves. However, as regards the subsidisation of shorter working hours, I must say that the application for this measure has not stopped, so that it is too soon, unfortunately, to conclude that there is no longer a need for such a measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u354	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u355	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I have already expressed satisfaction with the solutions in this law in the opinion of the parliamentary group. The same is true of the amendment tabled by the coalition, namely by our support. Of course, we have already announced our support for the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, but I have also said earlier that I welcome the efforts made by the coalition to prepare the relevant amendments and thus literally to save the law. However, I must say that I must address the implementation of Mr Križman, who has us, but he obviously does not want to listen to the opponents he has appointed us. I don't have any opponent in this room, but it's his personal opinion that we're opponents. I'm just saying that we have different views on different things. However, it offends me by saying that opposers want to do as badly as possible. I guarantee that I have already been in many situations in this Parliament and Government, and that I have always tried to find the best solutions for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. That's why I don't allow you to label your actions like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u356	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u357	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I took part in a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons when we were in this dilemma d.o.o.:s.p. I have already commended the Minister and I must reiterate this praise - this law is indeed one of the best things that has been done so far. Too bad it wasn't before. And today, after everything we've fixed, I can truly say, you've done a great job. But I have to say, we have a lot of problems with these s.p. and d.o.o. You probably still remember December and then January, when we were also in the dilemma of investment reliefs, when we said, for S.P. 30 thousand yes, for d.o.o. It wasn't acceptable at the time, well, then we solved it the way we had to. I think that the companies involved in the work should be small or large, the differences between s.p. and d.o.o. in this respect, we must not work. If we have laws that are not appropriate, which was also explained by the Minister on the Committee, let us try to correct this further, and we will have these matters arranged to make it easier for us to work. Thank you very much! And I want to continue my successful work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Mr. Crossman, time for the replica has simply missed you. You were given the opportunity when Mr President stopped implementing, but I cannot give you my word again because we have voted to speak only once about the amendments tabled. That's why I'm not giving you the replica. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u359	Thank you very much. I would not have given such a vehemently positive assessment of the implementation of the social partnership in the drafting of this law if I had not heard the representatives of both groups, both employers and employees on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, that they had indeed confirmed it. And in fact, if the Chamber of Commerce wasn't convincing enough in social dialogue, then it was her business. In other words, they all claimed that social dialogue had been very successful. Another time. With regard to the amendment, we have really worked hard because we have all agreed to some extent that employers with one employee are in an unequal position. However, the amendment proposed by the SDS and summarised by the Chamber of Commerce is a positive discrimination for those with one employee, in the sense that even for 100%, it is said that one of the only employees is sent to wait for work. Our amendment, however, focuses on sending it for 50% of this time, ensuring that it is in exactly the same position as all other employers and workers. We therefore believe that this solution is better, more appropriate, more just and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u361	Dear Mr. President. Yes, we finally have a European comparable law in this area. So the employers have been waiting for this for years. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has been registered in its programme for several years, but has by no means been implemented. But it is comparable to all our neighbors, namely the Austrians and others. I am particularly pleased and must point out that it is either the right and duty of the worker to be educated and that once we come to what is everywhere else in Europe, that unfortunately or fortunately we have to work in our lives with at least, on average, four professions. This trend would, of course, be with pleasure to recommend to those who are unemployed, who, of course, must find the strength at this time and the knowledge that they are retraining and looking for their jobs in those segments where jobs are, of course, open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u362	Thank you very much. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. First of all, I would like to answer the obvious that the government came very late to the National Assembly with this law. Colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, do you remember how you said at the end of last year that there would be no recession in Slovenia, how it would not be necessary to come with such critical or risky laws and that there would, of course, not be such a recession in Slovenia and there would be no recession at all? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u364	Comrade Germich, let me focus on the debate on the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And the other issue, which is related to the amendment, has been explained now, and I would just like to repeat it, and you know, the debaters of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the debate on this amendment on the committee was very varied. And that within the framework of the Economic and Social Council, as has already been said here, this initiative came relatively late at the table. And at this stage, when an agreement was actually concluded on the Economic and Social Council, this proposal was no longer included. It is, of course, impossible to accept, then, that the coalition can change its position on this amendment, which you have tabled primarily on the grounds that we have already warned on the Committee that the examination of the contents of the amendment you tabled on the Committee will lead to a solution in the days to this meeting, which will also respond to the dilemmas raised on the Committee. And one of the dilemmas was definitely that of s.p. in relation to other economic operators with a different organisation, i.e. d.o.o., in a different role. S.p. with two employees, one as s.p., who is in the primary role of employer, with one employee, then would be the criterion of up to 50% of employees, actually for s.p. with one employee means a measure for 100% of employees. We are solving this dilemma with our amendment in a different way. It is an equal treatment of all those who talk about the fact that they will also be s.p. with one employee, they may have a participation in the compensation measure, a partial subsidy for working time, for waiting time, if it is found that for business reasons they cannot provide work, for example, for a total of 50% of working time. So working time, not anymore, relative to the number of employees, because one employee in such a structure is already 100 percent. And in this way, two key elements are taken into account. First, take into account the relationship of s.p.:d.o., secondly, equal treatment of all employees, independent of the employer’s status form. And in this case our amendment is substantially more correct or the only correction in relation to the amendment you are proposing. In your case, one employee in the S.P., as the primary employer, means a 100% number of employees. However, I agree that monitoring in implementation will also be an extremely important component of the implementation point for working organisations with one employee. However, I am convinced that there will not be many who would only have the intention to implement this measure in order to be able to work in the dark for those involved in this measure. I am convinced that employers are definitely in favour of creating conditions for proper business, for better business, and for their employees, if in this case there is only one additional knowledge, for additional opportunities for competitive capacity on the market, and also for those employers who have only one employee, to make a great deal of effort to prepare a programme of pre-qualification, education, education so that they can play a more competitive role on the market. That seems to me to be the key difference between the two amendments. And I think it makes sense to support the amendment tabled by the four coalition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u366	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I didn't mean to come by because we've been here since the early hours of the morning. But still, I'm glad we're discussing in this light and we're trying to understand the status form of society. Unfortunately, too often in a negative connotation so far, and I hope that this debate in this high assembly will also give us a few more insights into the fact that we are also the same, equal forms of the status s.p. I do not think that the possibility of rights under this law should be conditioned, since the crisis has taken over everything. The aim of the law is undoubtedly to preserve as many jobs as possible, but I say that it must also be the aim of maintaining as many business entities as possible. It bothers me in particular that we play yours: our amendments, I support equality before the law. And I support that amendment that is better and that will give more to those who undoubtedly need it. There is still a lack of awareness that small businesses represent more than 99% of all businesses that quickly adapt to the needs of the crisis and the market and also create new jobs. There are still many who view craftsmen and entrepreneurs as an urgent evil. And that's all. Churchill once said that some think that the entrepreneurs are cows that need constant milking, others think they are the brown dogs that need to be killed, but few are the ones we believe are the horses that drag the cart. I hope there's as many as possible in our country, then we'll all be better off. And I will support the law and the amendment of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u368	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. May I be allowed to somehow touch the nobility, if I may say so, of this measure. Minister, I'm afraid you're not coming to work tomorrow because we all praise you so much today. However, I also join in this commendation, the law is good and the purpose is noble: by partly paying the salaries paid to employers who, due to the current situation in the labour market, cannot provide enough work, they can count on help. Now for the amendments. The amendment that will be adopted by these two I do not think there is any need to stress what this is about. It's one that's been filed a little bit later, and one that's already been presented on the committee as a request. I don't think we need to argue here, which is better. The law itself is partially mitigating this emerging crisis, which is expressed in the absence of work and is keeping in the way of those small entrepreneurs who are somehow unable to survive today with the number of employees. I would point out that small businesses are a condition for the creation of medium-sized and large enterprises and that this should be seen with some special sense of responsibility. If we grow these little cells, as we tell them, we can count on them to grow big trusts and clusters from these cells. And if we look at it, it is only this year that 24.5 million euros are earmarked for this purpose, 64 million euros in 2010 and 20 million euros in 2012. For the training of workers, an additional EUR 12.5 million. Of course, that's fine and commendable. But if I'm allowed to, I'd like to mention something else. I would like to bridge this crisis, as I said earlier in the presentation of positions, by opening up new jobs. And today, Madam Minister, we have you here in these night hours, I would like to point out that it is an opportunity to build apartments for young people, that it is an opportunity to rebuild state roads, which are abandoned and in a decaying state, that it is an opportunity to restore railway infrastructure. Why? Because construction will also be able to be more successful in this crisis period of job shortage and we will also take advantage of the moment of prices of one industry, because we know that the price of work has fallen heavily in the construction area. However, the added value can be extended, as has already been said, by opening new jobs and making more money for such measures than we are taking today at this tax level, which will also be filled, not only empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u369	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u370	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't want to be long. I think that the current debate has also shown that our intentions are good and that the law itself is good. I agree with Mr. President that some things have been said here entirely unnecessary, and I also add that probably Mr. President just because of his actions, as it has been so far, there have been so many mandates as a Member of Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u371	About the amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u372	As far as the amendment is concerned, I must say, for those who do not understand that it is not a purely identical matter that governs this, if I simply say, the law that the coalition has tabled is half less favourable for independent entrepreneurs and therefore puts them in an equal position. The previously tabled SDS amendment drew attention to this subject and to the committee itself as coalition Members, we were not indifferent to this problem, but we did not yet see the outcome. The Ministry also had its views on everything. I am pleased that we have found a way out of this and that we can conclude this debate and we are happy to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendments tabled. I am putting the amendment of SD, ZARES, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6 into the debate. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 6? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm guessing he doesn't want to. This concludes the debate on this Article and the amendment. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, ZARES, DeSUS and LDS to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on this article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendments tabled by SD, ZARES, DeSUS and LDS. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Excuse me. All I'd say is that if there was no objection, the amendments would be decided in 15 minutes. Do we agree? [[Yeah.]] I hereby interrupt this agenda item, which will be suspended by the 6th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 22.35 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u374	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on public roads, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. I inform you that we will vote on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.5.2009 which you received on the bench. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 2. We're voting. An explanation of the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janez Janša and Darja Lavtijar responded. Please, Janez Janša has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment, and so will our Group of Members. That is because this amendment corrects the damage caused by this law. The government coalition has proposed a law that will raise less money, despite the introduction of two vignettes in a short time. Following today's Communication from the European Commission, this does not satisfy some in the European Commission. When we introduced the vignette system, we consulted the European Commission. The European regulation only lays down obligations relating to day-to-day freight transport rather than to prices for passenger vehicles. This system has been introduced by Slovenia in agreement with the European Commission. Then the seat changed or the Commissioner for Transport became someone who is from our neighbouring country. That's when the pressure started. You received that letter in October, which you say is the position of the European Commission, and Slovenia bowed to the entire line, not before the European Commission, but before the pressure from Italy. Mr. Vlačič, Minister of Transport, kneeled two seconds before the pressure from Italy. He didn't fight for two seconds. We didn't answer that letter. There they require clarification from Slovenia, until when will this regime be valid, which we have declared temporary. Neither did we respond to that nor did we defend our position that the vinite system is not discriminatory. We didn't do anything. A few days ago, the Minister of Agriculture brought an action because the European Commission had taken Slovenia a million and a half euros. It's said that 200 million euros are being blocked here, and we haven't done anything. If someone, due to some alleged discriminatoryness, had held 200 million euros for Italy, the Italian Prime Minister would have called the President of the European Commission or set up a case at the European Council that minute and would have [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the matter has been resolved. [[...]] Then the European Commission should prove this discriminating in court. Nothing happened here. We just knelt down without any argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u376	Thank you very much. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Would you like to explain your own voice, Mr. Chernač? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4 of the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, I am moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is by considering and deciding on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. The decision will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments of 26. 5. The 2009 you got on the table. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the word on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Even though we have listened to the Minister's explanation of the lack of police officers, the real thing is this amendment, or the very area of appointment of the Director-General, because that is also the essence of the law. The employment of police officers is discussed by four members, two directly, three indirectly. The real essence of this law, however, is this appointment of the Director-General. Therefore, I would like to remind you that already in the past year, Minister Mate announced the post of Director-General of the Police at the time of Mr Romsk's departure to his office in peace and by law. A number of candidates have applied. They went through the electoral process. And on the first day, the minister was waiting for the first hour on the table for a list of candidates that she could hire. That didn't happen. The invitation to tender has repealed and has published a new one. Mostly the same people came forward, went through the whole process again, and the minister had 8 names and names, including doctors of science, people who write police textbooks, people who are taught today by all the cops - by their products, so the textbooks. Of course, the minister immediately said that they were beautiful, that they made a nice impression on her, a good impression, but she didn't pick any, she put up a performer of duty who didn't even sign up. She went on to say that this was her first choice in the future. She wrote the law for three months. This article we are talking about, the amendment I am talking about was also the focus of the dispute in the Government when they were unable to agree on how to appoint the Director-General or what conditions they would call for. However, conditions have been called or the law has come to Parliament, by which we appoint a new Human Resources Commission, a new commission, which is also proposed by the President of the Member State. But look, for the first time since 1988, when the Slovenian police have already given up political personnel, we are introducing an article that allows, we are introducing a procedure that makes it possible. I stress, 21 years ago, the top of the Slovenian police has already been cleaned, if you want, by politicians. You're bringing him in today. That is why I urge you to support this amendment and to prevent it. In particular, to prevent what it also says, it says that, on the date of appointment, the Director General of Police will become a police officer. It's an absurd thing no one knows. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u378	Thank you very much. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I ask for peace in the hall and no controversy on the other side. Explain your voice. I ask for peace in the hall. Please listen to the speaker. Please, Mr. Gorenak. Peace in the hall. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please. I've been informed that you have a blocked microphone for a minute. We'll wait this minute. He used to go with a minus explanation of voice and has a microphone blocked for a minute. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u379	Of course I'm not dealing with anyone. I think you've noticed that. We are introducing a system, and I therefore ask for support for this amendment, which will allow policy to apply to the workplace. On the day of his appointment, he will be recognized as a police officer. This is exactly the same as appointing a civilian as head of the General Staff, preferably a politician, and from the date of appointment he will become a soldier. Or another comparison, let's say we're appointing the Attorney General of a civilian and he's going to get a legal education and a state law exam on the day of his appointment. These are the reasons why I don't think this is the case. However, what is also important in this Article is that this Article provides for the appointment of a Deputy Director-General, who replaces the Director-General. There's an absurdity here, too. Why? Under the conditions prescribed by law, the Deputy Director-General will become a trainee on the day of appointment, a mentor, preferably one of the police officers, thus providing for the law, and we will send him, you will, to the police school, to his subordinates. He'll be there for 3 and 18 months, depending on the program. When he passes about 15 exams with his subordinates, I stress that with his subordinates, they will issue him a certificate that he has become a police officer. This procedure is provided for in this law. I think this procedure is stupid, so I'm asking you again to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u380	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 13. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u381	Thank you very much. This article introduces a new police mandate, which is called "examination of a person and things". If we had ever discussed new police powers in the previous term, all civil society, the then opposition and others would have been raised. That's what we're proposing today. At the time of the Committee's consideration of this article, we have pointed out that this is a new police mandate, which should be designed to ensure that police officers are directly aware of the fact that a person has items that can be taken away by law, such as drugs, weapons or anything else, that they carry out a review of the person and things. It's something during a security check, which means tipping off a person to find out if there's a knife, a weapon or anything in it, and something during a personal investigation ordered by the judicial authorities anyway. So it is something that we believe can be harmful not only to citizens but also to police officers. Why for the citizens? So basically, because the cops are going to be able to say to anyone at any time, "I thought you threw something in the car, I thought you put something in your pocket fast." This will therefore be the reason for the application of this police mandate. It's also a dispute because he says that a police officer can't examine the hidden parts of the case, say vehicles. What's the secret part? I don't know. The hidden part could be the trunk, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u382	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u383	The hidden piece could be handed over whether it's locked or not. [[...]] He's a bad guy for cops, too. The police will certainly find themselves in a number of disciplinary proceedings because of this duly written article. The reason is - where? The policeman will be sure that this citizen has hidden something quickly, will use this authority, will show that it is not so, let's say that the cell phone is instead of a gun, which we have already had a fatality and - what will happen? Once he finds out he's on the phone, the citizen will be the one to press charges, and the policeman will fly to the road. In short, bad recipe, bad article [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and therefore it should be [[...]] [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u384	Thank you very much. We're voting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u385	An explanation in your own name, if you can. Here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u386	Mr. Rozjej, there's no way you can turn on the microphone before I give you my word. You need to raise your hand. Please, Vito Rose, an explanation in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u387	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I'm sorry, I didn't notice you were looking at mine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u388	Never again. ♪ Laughing. ♪
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u389	The former American president and inventor Benjamin Franklin said that "a nation that chooses security and freedom is not worthy or worthy of one another." And today we are here before one such decision. This amended article, which I would now like to amend with the amendment, introduces the concept of public security, and I think it is also at the expense of public freedom. We do not live in a country that would be totally free to allow citizens a variety of freedoms. You can't smoke in here, you can't smoke in there, even if you might find some options. You can't buy drinks after 9:00 p.m., you can't buy anything. In short, as a liberal, I don't feel like living in a terribly free country. In general, this article introduces, as has already been said, one new police mandate, which leaves the contents of our pockets to one of the measuring discretions and the rights of the police. I'm not sure that the potential violation, for example, of the offence law is the reason why public security would be compromised and would allow such acts of human dignity. I don't mind either, because the law is impeccable as to how the direct perception of the items that a person has with him and should be seized under the law will be, how this will happen in the case of a police officer or a police officer, who will have to determine whether I have a firecracker in my pocket or if I'm just happy to see him or her. In short, freedom, golden freedom! I don't care, I'll vote against the will of the coalition if I have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u390	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Dr Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u391	Thank you very much. I deeply regret that we are forced to vote against the law as a whole because of the Minister's procedures. We have already made it clear on the Committee that we are not opposed to all those provisions of the law that will enable the Minister to improve the staffing of police stations. Even though her entire explanation and full presentation were based on this, it must be said that this law, as far as personnel matters are concerned, the number of police officers at police stations - two articles of the law and three articles of the law are concerned, and nothing more. This was also the main motto of why the law by emergency procedure. All the other 35 articles, as far as this law has them, are governed by other areas and not by human resources, lack of police officers. We agreed with most of the articles of this law, and we also supported most of the articles of this law. Some articles are one where changes are urgently needed. In particular, changes are urgently needed in the area of police safety, the safety of their family members. These are extremely rare procedures, i.e. urgent procedures that must be supported, which must be supported, including our support. And they've got her by this point. At the moment when we adopt a law that has only two contentious areas for us, and this is the area of recruitment of the Director-General of Police and the area of ineffective and controversial authority, we are forced to turn on the red light to the law, which means we cannot support it. Personally as well as on behalf of the parliamentary group, I must stress once again: yes, it is necessary, because some hear poorly that we support all that is good in this law. This is particularly the case with police stations. Bring to Front [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u392	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u393	Bringing a politician to the head of the police, tell him that day, return the client's membership card, so you'll get a police officer's status at the moment of the gift and you'll be in charge of the police. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And it's not acceptable for us. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u394	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support this law because it has a dangerous impact on human rights and in this assembly there should be systematic doubts about the purposes of the police and the police minister, Mrs Kresalova. But I am pleased that the previous vote has shown that the entire coalition, however, is not deaf to human rights and is not entirely unanimously inconvenient to what the hidden purposes and the background of this police law are. This is a victory, even though you will all vote in favour of the enforcement of this so that unintelligible discretionary rights can be given to the police, on the basis of which human rights can be misused under the law. In this law there is a series of solutions that are contrary to the democratic spirit, the spirit of this country, the spirit that was at the time of the establishment of this country, and unfortunately this is a completely wrong step at this point. However, as I said, with my previous victory I am satisfied and will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u396	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 27. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Police Act. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 2. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. Decisions will be made on the basis of the amendment review of 26. The 5th you got on the table. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS to Article 3, saying that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under Article 2, that is, the SDS amendment, is irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u397	Thank you very much. We will not support this coalition amendment in the SDS. Even if we believe the width of Article 8, if it is not possible to provide guarantees for credit and also for the extension or rescheduling of credits, even though that word is not in this Article. Even so, we cannot support the open window proposed by the amendment to Article 3, because the guarantee scheme will strengthen the banks. Banks must have the basic purpose of servicing, crediting businesses with economic activity at that time. This amendment also allows banks to service purchases of ownership consolidation, Taiwanese loan reprograms and so on - those included in the guarantee scheme. This is the continuation of one story that has already started, which has also been made possible by those whose contracts were today or whose contract has been made public today. Mr. Marjan Kramar. He sat at the head of the Ljubljana Bank, New Ljubljana Bank, and decided all these matters together with a handful of administrations. He was richly rewarded for that. Not only did he get a huge salary not to talk about all possible ratings arising from the contract and were on the cover of some newspapers today and also online. More. Obviously, the public should not know and know about these ratings, because then the connection and some systematic privatisation or "admission" in this Slovenia will become stronger. Therefore, a few days ago, a designated information officer banned the publication of this contract if it was not in the public interest. It is not in the public interest, respected to find out what the contract is, what are the rights, the ratings of the first man who approved these loans that are today a problem. It's not! Here we confirm the possibility of re-programmes of tycoon loans approved by this same man. So, unheard of and in the SDS we will not cooperate with support, so we oppose this amendment, it is not necessary; rather than the coalition dealing with the release of the credit crunch with the help of companies here, it is complicated again and again in these stories in which it itself is involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u398	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 37. I take it the amendment has been accepted. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 37.]] This makes the amendment number two irrelevant. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Please, Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u399	Thank you so much for saying that. I predict that we will table an amendment under this Article, so I also suggest that you suspend the session in 45 minutes so that we can draft the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u400	I propose that we proceed with the vote, and we will order this 45-minute recess at the end of these votes. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u401	Dear President, I propose that we go in line, as the points are stated, at this stage, when we have asked for an amendment or a recess to prepare an amendment to give it to us and then move on to a third vote. It doesn't make sense to skip and mix things you have here ready to do. I suggest we abort.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u402	Good. After all, it doesn't matter, sooner or later. I'm assigning a 45-minute suspension until 23.50 for the third-reading amendment. We'll proceed at 23.50. Continue at 23.50, now I repeat 4 minutes - 23.50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u403	Wrong. You only gave us 41 minutes, not 45.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u404	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session and the third reading of the proposal for a guarantee scheme law. I note that we have received the amendment that has been announced to Article 3. For this reason, I am putting an amendment to Article 3 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. You got the amendment on the bench. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u405	Thank you very much, President. The amendment prevents banks that are included in the guarantee scheme, which the State has therefore stepped up to by means of guarantees for their credit activities to the economy, to those economies that need credits for business, investment, development, assets and so on, so this amendment prevents those banks for which it is evident that they need a country to engage in credit activities, their core activity, so such banks are not allowed to engage in any kind of credit activity related to ownership consolidation, reprogramming, securing such transactions, repurchase contracts or similar. So, the amendment prevents banks that have come together from saying, to the state section, things that are not anti-crisis-oriented, which have nothing to do with promoting economic activity, promoting economic growth and so on. You can, Your Honor, later return your permission to the banks to go through these loans when this crisis is over. In times of crisis, however, there should be a unified view here that the primary and sole task of banks is to service those economic activities that represent some of the economic activities of this country. We also proposed this because we obtained data from commercial banks, as well as from Banka Slovenije, that these loans for ownership consolidation of acquisitions and so on are not enough to deal with them. And I can't understand the blackmailing of banks to the government that they won't join the guarantee scheme if they can't. This is a pressure that does not have a real basis, and I think that even if it does so or does not, the banks will also take it. And one more thing. This amendment is for SDS, not just for us, probably for the vast majority of citizens and citizens [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Very important. [[...]] And we will certainly consider asking people questions, that is, a referendum if it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u406	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u407	Thank you so much and good evening again. There is nothing new about this amendment and it solves nothing, but it poses additional problems. In fact, the regulation thus far prevents the use of funds or prevents banks from using funds for those managers that are at any time controversial and that are not in accordance with the law if they enter the guarantee scheme. Thus, apart from the fact that it contains an appropriate explanation, which does not have much to do with the effects of the amendment, this amendment has no different effect. I would ask the proposed amendment whether they may have forgotten what the objective of the Guarantee Scheme Act is, and this is to ensure the earliest and most effective liquidity for the Slovenian economy. And do they realize that even with these 45 minutes, at least one more day, the date with which this novel will come into force has been postponed? If we are talking about the problem of bad credit, it would also make sense to think about different solutions, the solutions that have been in the debate in the United States, which are being established in the Federal Republic of Germany, that is to say, the so-called bad banks that would take over certain such guarantees or such loans. And the prognosis that if this is not accepted, you will go beyond the other possibilities of a human initiative is, in my understanding, even related to the interests of those who are said to be wanted in this way. It is clear that such a change, which has already been adopted in the second reading, is not in the interest of the so-called tycoons. And even if this amendment doesn't go through and we get to other interventions, that's the only way we're gonna make life easier for such a tycoon. So it will probably not be surprising if we find that the potential campaign will be financed by exactly one of the relevant sources. Thus, I do not see the meaning of this amendment, I stress that the goal is still to ensure effective liquidity, and I wonder whether we may not have forgotten what our main objective is and lose ourselves in some solutions that otherwise mean a lot, but do not bring anything new to the content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u408	Thank you very much. Alexander Ravnikar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u409	Thank you for your word. If it wasn't so late in the hour, and if they weren't so strong, it might be even fun if I had an esteemed Member, a colleague from Styria, explaining an amendment here and using it only as a means of setting up ultimatums for the entire National Assembly: if you don't accept it, you will see, I'll be "with a bagel". That's what the amendment sounds like. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] "I'll take you with a bagel," I said. [[...]] If you don't know what a bagel is, I already know what it is, 'cause I've just been doing something on farmers. Otherwise, I'd just say the following. The amendment, as set out, may be written in haste, perhaps not addressed by people with love for the Slovenian language. I have to commend them, however, because they are significantly more successful than they have ever been. Errors are an exception, so the first to be commended. However, when something is inserted into the administrative system in any place, which is unclear, which ensures broad discretion, which requires someone to decide what that particular term means, then, of course, these purposes are not voluntary, as we say in law. First of all, it's "and associated with them." Which ones? To where? What knee? Physical, even legal persons? So who? My grandson, who's technically incompetent, or someone else? - "involved with them." The next is that it is a purchase by members of the management and control bodies of these companies, which shows that our current economic law is unknown. For the first time, we have two management systems, one and two, and we should adapt to this. And secondly, the authorities are the administrations, the two-tier, and the supervisory council. To be very precise, it should be more accurate to determine who in such a case. Such an attitude towards legal culture in economic law is particularly well illustrated in the fourth indent of paragraph 1 of this Article, and this amendment to Article 13, which states that guarantees for loans should not be granted to other financial institutions which are intended to buy out the whole or its work - again, by members of the management and control bodies of these companies and the persons associated with them. I would just like to mention how it is known in advance in a particular financial institution that these funds are intended for this particular purpose? It is said that we should have in this bank a prophet, one of you constituents of this amendment, who would know in advance what kind of business will then be in the next step. And you should have known that by that moment. However, I do not see any specific additional sanctions in here, except in paragraph 4, that it is necessary to report separately to the Minister responsible for the finance, so there is no one else, but that they should probably come to this eventually. If we look at another point, it's something like that. After you say you can't lend, you can't renew loans, you can't change the terms of the loans. The changes to the terms of the loans are also collateralisation of loans. This is said to be in this paragraph, either at this point in the redundancy or to report to someone who does not know it in the economic law system [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I mean, who doesn't know the rules of our economic law. [[...]] I'll be right with you. I would only point out that we have submitted to Article 3 that we already have an amendment that says: to lend for the purchase of shares or business shares, which is exactly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u410	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u411	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. What the proposer of this amendment said at the end of his presentation or explanation is a new proof of one of the old practices, the blackmail we are witnessing in this National Assembly. Let us recall that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proponents put the country's international credibility at stake a few months ago with similar blackmail. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u412	Comrade Frangež, please discuss the amendment tabled. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u413	By blackmail, by referendum. If we do not accept their version of this amendment, they threaten that for a few months we will suspend the validity of this extremely important anti-crisis measure, of which you are of great benefit, much of the development and positive effects of both the Slovenian economy. This Slovenian economy has a venerable language. I would like to recall once again that, taking into account some of the proposals in previous cases, as well as the amendment proposed today by the coalition, we wanted to limit ourselves to the possibility that the money guaranteed by the State for investment, assets and development projects in companies should be targeted precisely for these purposes and for nothing else. Everything else is a cheap pre-election demagogy. And I call on you to propose a joint law on the revision of managers' buyouts, to propose a law on the nationalisation of this property together, and then, and at that point, we will see who is seriously willing to make some real changes in this area, and to whom it concerns the renewal of the old pre-election stories in time before the European elections. My call is, let's end this populism, because the state and the economy don't need it in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u414	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u415	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's really midnight, but I'd like to point out a few things. I find it completely irresponsible that you, dear colleagues, have come with this amendment. Apparently, 45 minutes was not enough time to form a decent amendment. In fact, it is not clear in this amendment whether you are saying that banks under Article 1 of this Act should not give in the context of their business, once you have "loans", the second time you have "loans". Then you're talking about "messages," and you're talking about "publicity." Determine whether it is a unity or a plurality. Then it's not clear whether you have a second inclination in mind, that is, a genetic, or whether you're speaking in the fourth slope. Excuse me, these are important nuances that can't sneak into some serious marriage, into a marriage that's as serious as the one we're talking about. Slovenia is not just a whim, but it is also a content that has been clarified through Slovenian. So, what you brought, I don't know, would probably take another 45 minutes, but more likely than that. You're causing this article to be a common shit nest. And you can imagine that under this law someone will have to decide and judge. And I find that simply unacceptable. Read again what you actually brought here; otherwise it is midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Since I think there will be still some debate, I propose that, on the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, any declared debater may only discuss the amendment tabled once. Of course, this applies from now on. Well, we're voting. We are voting on this proposal. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 28. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 28.]] This proposal has been adopted. I'm opening the application, as I say, this rule applies from now on. I'm asking you to sign up. Alexander Ravnikar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u417	Thank you, President. In another debate, it has already been explained that it is only for one thing - as bad as possible - when it comes to making such documents as this amendment. To resolve this maximum, because if we introduce such texts into the law, then let me, however, let any of you, because something also on your part of the applicants - probably anyone - will explain who will actually be the one who will make these judgments necessary for any minimum operationality of such an amendment, do. Am I gonna do this in this country? Maybe one of you? Or someone else? We're gonna wait for someone to grow up, or are we gonna spend whatever they know? After all: would it be essential to create such blackmailing means for someone who knows anything to ask how things could be met?This would not be so much a mistake and so much a problem with the language, nor would the great discretional areas as they are written in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u418	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u419	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I cannot support this amendment, because in the first paragraph there are some ambiguities that I would naturally like to explain in this explanation, but there is no mention of this. What does temporary buying-in of shares of companies in which members of management and control bodies and associated persons have a majority share? Does this also mean that the possible collateralisation of these loans with equity shares - also cannot be used by the bank? It's actually kind of a buy-back. Well, that's not gonna go into it then. You're probably against it. As far as "guarantee approval" is concerned, banks are lending loans. They also provide guarantees, but not for these things, but mainly loans. But, of course, there is a story in explanation. "The law allows for the possibility that liquid assets for investment and business development may be earmarked for the reprogramming of disputed management or tycoon loans." This law has no liquid assets. This law only provides guarantees. Thus, liquid assets are held by banks for which we want, of course, these liquid assets to be put out by these guarantees. You can nod your head as much as you want, but retaining this and the purpose that you've been talking about making decisions about it means exactly what the finance minister at Odessa told you today. Later, when this law is passed and it will enter into force - such as - it will be possible to prevent Taiwanese credits later. Unfortunately, this law, because it's been dragging itself for so long, will not apply to the possible reprogramming of Infond's debt, so that's what it means. And apparently you're backing up the fancy loans! Of course, you want all those other things to be consolidated, and then the economy will go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u420	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. President, Secretary of State. Although it is already the morning, so good morning - however, it does not seem most appropriate for you to go this way to take advantage of the Rules of Procedure and limit the debate because I know it is important. This guarantee scheme is so important for the further development of our economy or whether it will eventually drown or, however, we will give a chance for further development. In this guarantee scheme, the opposition has always cooperated in a creative way, and some of you have said that it is necessary to find a common point and so on. See, even in yesterday's Work it is written that in the coalition some fear that such a supplement, as said Minister of Economy Matej Lahovnik, would allow for a series of extension of the contested loans. In this case, Mr Lahovnik reiterated yesterday, he would certainly have resigned from the ministerial position, as he had announced when the loan was extended to Infond. I'm worried about why he wants a piece of the Secretary of the Lakhovnik coalition, and it's not right. After all, he is one of the better ministers in the government, I think, and it is he who has warned about this that you want to eliminate him now. And it's even more stupid to think or need to look for some hair, some nuances. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u422	Dear colleague Pukšič, let us focus on the amendment not on all other matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u423	Yeah, we're talking about the amendment. Mr Ravnikar also spoke about how vaguely it was written "the company and its connected persons", but when I read the amendment of the SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS coalition, he also writes "related persons" and nothing goes on, how to which knee, sixth, third and so on. It seems a little silly to me that, on the one hand, you want to send your mind to the opposition, but which, on the other hand, has been very much involved in this law and actually wants to, really, only wants these funds to come to the start of the economy, not to the ownership consolidation, which is obviously going to happen from this. I did not understand as a threat, but as a warning, so to speak, the last warning: consider, for otherwise the nation will have to decide for itself. In my debate today, I told you exactly what is going on, what is going on, what is the economy in, after all, the work is, but there is no financial flow, and businesses with 10, 30, 50 employees simply do not have the assets. With these guarantees, the state clearly expects the banks to release money for the return on development, in short, for further work. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u424	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please. Mr. Blackach, just a moment. Replica, Mr. Ravnikar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u425	You'll be able to read it. [[...]] He mentioned my last name, and after recklessly mentioning my name, he deserves at least a replica. What Member Pukšič understands about this text is not my problem, but he shows his understanding. But what does it mean to buy the shares of companies temporarily? In our legal system, however, it means that there are shares in limited liability companies; there are business shares. Let us now put aside the issue of what temporary redemption is and so on, which I think is worth a special discussion. The use of terms alone is a matter of impreciseness and limitation to a very limited area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u426	Mr. Ravnikar, this is a controversy, not a replica of the wrong statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u427	I'm done, Mr. President. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u428	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u429	Apparently, it's a very late hour for a member to argue with his own amendment. Dear Mr Ravnikar, the two first indents are prescribed, the new are only the third and fourth indents of this amendment. It must be a late hour, too, that the advantage is given to the vocabulary and not to the content. Obviously, it is not the clock’s fault to change the nature of the ruling coalition’s action, which says something and does something else; and every day, at any time. A very clear and unequivocal text of this law was put to the vote on the committee. It probably wasn't a late hour at the time that some of you didn't vote correctly, but you caused the right text to be voted: one that would prevent the loan from being extended to the tycoon with the state guarantee. What you've brought back into this marriage with this amendment, which you've submitted and then you've done a little hairstyle and you've turned it into a cellophane. You've done nothing but do it. This amendment, which is proposed, only adds what it says in the third and fourth indents. And it says, "Banks referred to in Article 1 of this Act that acquire a guarantee quota," that is, the State guarantee, "may not temporarily buy the shares of companies in which members of the management and control bodies and associated persons have a majority share in their business." And last indent: "Banks which obtain a guarantee quota shall not, in the context of their operations, grant guarantees for loans to other financial institutions which are intended to buy out the entire company or its work by members of the management and control bodies of those companies and associated persons." And if you don't support it, it means you agree that they can do it. It means that you are in favour of tycunization happening with the blessing of the state or with the State guarantee, when every day a company is "declared" by a company that cannot obtain liquid assets for normal business and to preserve production and jobs. It's slow and it's overturned. It's like she's being held back and there's been a misappropriation. The constitutional right provided for in the Constitution is to be re-extorted. Have we really come so far, ladies and gentlemen, that constitutional rights are marked as extortion? It has been very clear and well said that if this amendment is not adopted, which means that this country and people will be severely harmed, it will be necessary to consider using what the Constitution provides and to take advantage of the last option that is still possible in such a case, and to try to prevent enormous damage, which in this case does not go up to tens or hundreds of millions of euros, but goes down to billions of euros, and which can ultimately mean that taxpayers and taxpayers will have to rehabilitate Slovenia's banking system once again. This is what we are talking about in this law, and this is what we are talking about in this amendment. Even if it's a late hour, it's a very important matter, and it's not a joke. I suggest you consider and support this amendment, which is good and which prevents what you have been defending yourself all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u430	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Ravnikar, I didn't hear you say anything about this, and that's why I'm not giving it to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u431	Mr. President, then it's bad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u432	You can't take the floor. You cannot take the floor! Anyone else want to discuss the proposed amendment? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. This concludes the debate on the amendment and brings us to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. It was 49 votes against 28. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, a reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly by a member of mag. Radovan Žerjav is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., from credits hired to finance the Slovenian Compensation Society in 2009, an urgent procedure. We continue the second reading, that is, by deciding on the amendment tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please, Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u433	Thank you very much. We will vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party after the amendment which would properly regulate the security of this loan has not been adopted. The Slovenian Compensation Society's guarantee of EUR 180 million is justified by the Government's return on investments in the telecommunications network, stating in explanation that the Court paid 43 million of these investments in 2007. So you see, there is no problem with the negative balance sheet of the 2007 budget; here the government itself admitted that this was so that the budget of the country for 2007 was positive. In 2008, the Court paid EUR 108 million in investments in the telecommunications network. A further EUR 50 million is planned for this year, and these funds are covered by the 2009 budget rebalancing that we adopted at the National Assembly in March this year. In addition, in 2008 the Slovenian Compensation Society was still under the previous leadership, which is an old leadership, one that you have not yet managed to replace at the time, operating positively, creating 48.9 million euros in surplus. The justification for the need for EUR 180 million of credit is based on the Government's argument that the Slovenian compensation company has liquidity problems, which means that we are granting a State guarantee to ensure the liquidity of the operation of the Court. Such a state guarantee cannot be given for anything. The laws adopted in the past in the National Assembly also explicitly state the purposes for which the entities to which the guarantees have been granted State guarantees are owed. At Dars, we have such explicitly defined sections of the highway that Dars was responsible for. In the case of the University of Primorsk, we have specific projects. In this case, when it comes to EUR 180 million or a tenth of this year's projected budget deficit, these purposes are not visible or the explanation shows that we are making a guarantee that the Court will be able to ensure normal business. For all these reasons, especially because you have not adopted an amendment that would properly regulate at least the insurance of this guarantee, we will not support or oppose this law in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u434	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st c. item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Partial Reimbursement of Remuneration of Wages, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments you received today 26. 5. 2009 on the bench. First of all, I am putting the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 2. In doing so, I would point out that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group is irrelevant under number 2 in the review of the amendments. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, the amendment under order number 2 was irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 11. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 2, 6, 8 and 11 of the amended draft law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? They want to, don't they? I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Marijan Pojbič, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u435	Mr. President-in-Office. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a partial remuneration law because its intention is to maintain jobs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of every job. At the same time, I think it is important to stress once again that the adoption of this law is too late. And that the 30,000 jobs, the 30,000 unemployed, will have nothing from this law, and that is a tragedy that should not be allowed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also pleased with any positive action proposed by the Government, and we think it is extremely important that any such action be supported. And we are convinced that this is one of the measures or one of the better measures proposed by the current government. We will therefore support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u436	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Violence in the Family 2009-2014. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a resolution, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Robert Hrovat Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u437	Thank you very much. Well, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will clearly support this law. This law is about the continuity of improvements, the adoption of improvements for our pensioners and our proposal aligns the situation of all pensioners in rural areas, so that all are granted the lowest pension for the full pension. This population has contributed greatly to the development of Slovenia, to the existence of farms, to the production of healthy food, and I think it is right that in some way we are also helping them through the amendment of this law. It's about small changes, it's about changing one article, and I think they deserve our support in the fall of their lives. This is a change from 227.60 euros to 455.19 euros, which would mean better social security. But this is only about solidarity, as was said here yesterday by the Government. I think it is right that we are all in solidarity with these rural pensioners, and I call on you to support this law as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-26-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u438	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act, under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday 20th. 5. 2009 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the National Assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. Since the amendment to the law was tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled by you. This is the amendment of the Zares, SD, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9. I'm putting an amendment to the debate. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the decision of the Zares, SD, DeSUS and LDS groups to the amendment of Article 9. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, in favour of 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members were present for 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item, please remain in the Chamber until the session is closed! [[...]] With regard to this item of the agenda, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be adopted: The legislative and legal service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the company law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the sixth session of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good morning.
