ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today: Joško Godec, Laszlo Göncz until 16:00, Jakob Presečnik until 18:00, Sam Bevk until 18:00 and Ljubo Germič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on postal services, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new postal service law fully replaces the law now in force and is thus a complete transposition of the directive, which was last amended by the last postal directive. The purpose of the proposal for a new law is to provide quality and accessible universal postal service, to protect the rights of users and to promote effective competition in the postal service market, taking into account the postal directive with the ultimate objective of fully opening up the postal service market. The essential content of the law is based on the abolition of the last remaining exclusive right, namely the provision of reserved services provided by the Postal Service of Slovenia and the establishment of mechanisms necessary for the full liberalisation of the postal market. In the public interest, it shall be provided to all postal users throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia under the same conditions of permanent, regular and smooth operation of the universal service, which may be interrupted only in the event of force majeure or in situations dangerous to the supplier. Universal services are provided by postal services, reception, shipping and delivery of postal consignments up to 2 kg, postal packages up to 10 kg, services recommended and value mail, and the transfer of postal consignments for the blind and visually impaired. In principle, provision shall be made for the provision of a universal service as a replacement service by one or more operators. If it is found that the universal service obligation entails a net cost and entails an unfair financial burden for universal service providers, it is entitled to compensation for the provision of a universal service. In such a case, a mechanism may be established at the request of the universal service provider to distribute the net cost and to pay the corresponding amount of compensation to the universal service provider. To this end, a compensation fund shall be established managed by the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications as an independent body. The financial source of the Fund is the contributions of all dedicated postal service providers, i.e. universal service providers and interchangeable service providers. In this way, universal service obligations can be financed. Allow me to explain or remind myself that an amendment to the SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS bill has been tabled under Article 74. The proposed amendment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a proposal for this Act, also makes sense in the light of the questions and concerns expressed by Members at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly regarding the question of the relationship to the applicable provisions adopted under the provisions of the previous applicable law, which are substantially amended by the proposal for a new law. The new provision of Article 74, paragraph 3, introduced by the proposed amendment complies with the requirement of independence of the national regulatory authorities resulting from the postal directive. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proposer of the Act under consideration, also supports the adoption of the amendment to the 74th Article of the Act's amended proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all Members and Members of Parliament, to the Minister with his fellow Members. Let me briefly introduce how the Committee on the Economy worked on the proposal for a law that we are now talking about. The bill was drafted on the basis of a directive adopted in February 2008 requiring implementation into our legal order within a certain period of time, and the Government has drawn up such a proposal for a law. It may also be important to mention that this is an integral text and that it is not simply a matter of novelizing individual parts. In this way, it also contributes to greater transparency of legislation. The material prepared by the Government helped us with our work. The material prepared by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had comments or opinions on some 30 articles, helped us. The four coalition groups also drafted amendments, which were later withdrawn after reconsideration. As non-formal materials, we also received materials from professional institutions which in principle supported proposals addressed to the National Assembly or to the Committee on the Economy by the Postal Service of Slovenia. Representatives of the Government, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Post of Slovenia participated in the work, with the exception of Members and Members. The Committee's amendments, which were also an integral part of the materials that were in support of our work, were later adopted. In this way, a number of concerns and comments, in particular the Legal and Legislative Services, have been rectified. Let me mention that three-way comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The first was of a constitutional nature, in particular in relation to the principle of legality, the second legislative system and third in relation to concerns as to whether all definitions and all institutions are correctly defined in this law or not. Apart from the issue of the Legal and Legislative Service, the dilemmas related mainly to the exacerbation of the conditions for the work of the Post Office of Slovenia were raised. The point is that the Slovenian Post Office had concerns about the removal of exposed gearboxes, so that it must be delivered five times a week throughout Slovenia in all environments and the permanent mail and mail and that this opportunity acquired in this way by users has an important impact on the costs. In a substantive sense, the Post of Slovenia received quite a bit of support. Just as some support has been received in the sense of amending Article 77 of this Law, which speaks of not being 1. 7. The implementation of the decision, which has become legally binding in the meantime, has been refused by Members and Members of Parliament to regulate it by law. In this way, the regulator’s powers would be reduced, in fact depending on the law or on the National Assembly too directly, and for these reasons all the amendments that went in the direction of support for thinking and the Post of Slovenia were withdrawn. In the middle of the debate alone, there was also an interpretation by the representative of the Government that this could be regulated within the framework of the Administrative Procedure Act, which the Committee adopted and which was also accepted by mag. A visionary who himself proposed an additional amendment and then withdrew it after that explanation. When the Committee on the Economy adopted all the amendments to the articles that were open, this became an integral part of the new proposal that we are discussing today in the National Assembly and will decide on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be re-examined by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u6	The DeSUS Group was one of the signatories to the two amendments to the law, and it was also the one who agreed that the amendment was weak in the sense of disassociating the role of the independent agency Apek in our system. That's why we were among those who withdrew this amendment. We have therefore insisted that what we consider to be worth considering by the Post Office has been proposed, but in some way implemented. We note that the possibilities for taking into account the concerns of Mail are open. Members of the law are open, and the amendment is proposed. We will support the amendment in the DeSUS Group. However, this amendment to the article already mentioned by Mr Minister is favourable to the fact that, after unnecessary and excessive burdens, our mail is not imposed and that it is possible for an independent agency to regulate these rules by reaching consensus. The post office points out that this would mean very high costs for it, in order to make it necessary for it after the establishment of a new company, in order to constitute a potential threat to over a hundred contracts concluded and a whole range of other negative effects may still be followed in the view of Mail. We believe that if everything that the Post Office of Slovenia has presented as potential negative effects really happened, it would probably not be good for the Mail, for the costs and for the employees, but it would be good for the users, who in this way are substantially raised by the standard. What we need to find today is or will have to determine whether all these difficult provisions that dramatically raise the quality of the service, but can also exacerbate the business effect of Posta Slovenije such that the power to adopt them in the form of exceptions, or whether it is the strength of a decision that has been adopted and which is legally binding, is softened in accordance with a theory written by some of our legal experts and which speaks of the fact that the law could already define in the transitional provisions the relationship to the decisions that are based on the law that we are amending. So in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is necessary to harmonise the benefits of the recipients of Mail and the benefits of the business entity Post Slovenia by not raising the quality of mail or the users of postal services, even repairing it, so that it should not go excessively to the detriment of the business of Post Slovenia, and in particular not to the employment of their people. We will therefore support the law, we will also support the amendment and probably from our point of view the suggestion that the independent agency is the one that must also consider the business aspects of the business of Post Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, the minister with the team. We will support the bill on postal services in the Slovenian National Party. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that this is a proposal for a law that is supposed to be harmonised between the proposer, namely the Government and the Post Office of Slovenia, which we are associated with every day, however, this is also the case in this bill. Of course, we are once again witnessing the many directives of the European Union which dictate the amendment of this law, which speak of the total elimination of exclusive and specific rights of the provision of services and of the freeing up of the market for the full release of the market for postal services, which is, of course, generally good. We have also seen a list of some countries that have taken advantage of the possibility of retaining reserved services in some transitional period until 2012, by which we have committed ourselves to implementing these directives into our law by 2010. I don't think it's bad if, according to some of the content that we might be reading in the Post office, we decided to take advantage of the transitional period. Otherwise, the Post Office said, when the question was asked, how to liberalise the market is prepared by the Post Office of Slovenia: "Post office is well prepared." As a result, it was also decided not to require a transitional period of protectionist measures. Well, that's a statement from the Post Office. After hearing that some of the dilemmas we have heard and will be heard about, I do not know why the country, the Republic of Slovenia, would not use this transitional period to clarify the contents. But, anyway, the government and the Post Office should agree to solve this problem in good mail, on the one hand, like us users. When we heard a representative of the Government objecting to the decision to make provision in the law that, on the date of the entry into force of the law, the decisions issued pursuant to Article 30(1) shall cease to apply, on the other hand, we read that the Post Office of Slovenia shall assess that the assessment of the Government is flat, that they consider that the decision issued is a violation of the principle of proportionality, that it is a provision which does not fall within the law and so on. You know, I think you agree with me, that's not our problem. This is the problem of the government that writes this law, and the problem of the Post Office to harmonise. And it's a little strange to read that the Post Office opposes on one side of the government on the other side says it's ready, and so on. I think that for what this Directorate provides, five days of continuous services for the users of Posta, the Government has worked hard and prepared a law that will be in line with the European Union and which will be harmonised, I hope, once again with the Post Slovenia. And it is our duty to support such laws as the legislative branch of power for the benefit of all. However, for all the harmonisations that are within or between the proposer and the user or the service provider, the Government is, of course, responsible. As I have already made clear, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Postal Service Act in the hope and belief that both the Government and the Post Office have aligned themselves with some of the dilemmas that were opened at the Committee on the Economy. I believe that you will do the same for others, and any criticism would of course be welcome. However, I hope that what I have said is that the Government and the Post are on some things on a few different shores, that this story has been completed from our last session to this day or that it will be resolved in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister with colleagues, President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will also support the proposed Postal Services Act, as well as the amendment tabled. The post office is synonymous with the exchange of news, information, goods and as a speedy activity, it is as old as the first civilization. Mail as an organisation carrying out postal activities has, over the centuries, monitored its organisational forms, working methods and use of media and transport resources in line with political, economic and cultural developments. As an organisation, Mail has been a state-owned or public-owned monopoly ever since the creation of modern countries. In the second half of the previous century, however, the monopoly on state mail began to be gradually revived in Western countries, and this process will end in the near future in the European Union. The bill on postal services that we are considering today also concludes this process in our country. We all know that monopolies are harmful, and this has led to the gradual opening of the European postal market to competition over the last 20 years, with strong technical progress, and at the same time this stage of market opening has given the post office as universal service providers or classical postal services, enough time to modernise, restructure and introduce new services that are condition for their survival under new market conditions. The bill also brings to our legal order a directive of 2008 amending the Directive on the complete creation of the internal market for postal services in the European Union. The central amendment introduced by that Directive is therefore a complete release of the postal service market by 31 December 2010. The proposal for a law follows substantively the principles resulting from the directive already mentioned, in particular at the head of non-discrimination, transparency and proportionality. It also contains provisions that exercise the right of Member States under the Directive to regulate individual areas in accordance with their domestic legislation. At the same time, the proposal for a new law removes shortcomings in terms of improving the provisions of the current law. As the most important objective of the law in the LDS, we expose the provision of quality and affordable universal postal services to at least five times a week for all citizens of Slovenia, without discrimination and protection of the rights of users. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the possible establishment of a special composite fund to be managed by the mail market regulator, which will share the financial burden of those who, by the regulation of the regulator, will be obliged to provide universal services in a commercially uninterested rural area. For LDS, it is very important that the current quality of classical postal services by opening the market does not deteriorate anywhere in our country. For more coherent regional development in our country, it is important not only to have large and receptive projects or investments, but also small and everyday things that have an important impact on the quality of life of an individual. In doing so, we can all remember the problems that have been caused by the closure of small village stores, especially for older or fewer mobile people in the countryside. With regard to the issue of the decision issued by the Post Office of Slovenia and pursuant to Article 30, paragraph 1, of the law in force, which requires it, inter alia, to ensure that the economic activity of postal services in a legally independent person and against which the Post Office of Slovenia has not availed itself of legal remedies is carried out by this year on 1 July, and it may be assessed that some, following the implementation of the Act in question, the Post Office of Slovenia would cause unnecessary commercial damage. In LDS, we accept the government's explanation. In accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, a new administrative procedure may be introduced on an official basis and a new decision may be issued at a time when the decision and the legal circumstances change, following the legality of the decision. This interpretation is also followed by the content of the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 74, which we will support. We also accept in the LDS the assurance that by the end of 2010, the Post Office will be ready for the complete release of the postal market in Slovenia. We believe that it is already well prepared and under conditions of market liberalisation, and that it is accelerating to develop some additional services in the field of logistics, finance, sales of goods and e-services, and that because of its own development logistics network, it has one of the largest information infrastructures in the country for which it is also competing. Finally, I would like to stress that in LDS we will support the full liberalisation of the postal market. We hope that, in practice, the planning of the balance between liberalisation and further ensuring the quality of classical postal services throughout Slovenia will also be achieved, so we will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u12	Good afternoon, well-known, distinguished present. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is as follows: Respected, the Law on Postal Services, which is now in force, was adopted in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the adoption of the European acquis in 2002. Some kind of monopoly was still allowed or permitted in this regulation, as regards the provision of reserved services for which the Post Office of Slovenia was solely entitled. The European postal services markets have seen radical changes in recent years due to the developments triggered by technical progress, deregulation and consequently greater competitiveness. The gradual opening of the postal service market to competition has given universal service providers sufficient time to introduce the modernisation and restructuring measures necessary to ensure long-term viability due to new market conditions. In this context, a new directive was adopted in February 2008 which fully eliminates exclusive and specific rights to provide services, reserved services and whose main objective is to fully liberalise the postal services market. According to the applicant, this Directive is being fully transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The aim of this law is to ensure the implementation of quality and universal postal service, at least 5 times a week for all inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, without discrimination, the protection of the rights of users and the promotion of effective competition in the postal service market. All this due to the full opening up of the market and the expansion of the postal service market. Universal service, this is the provision of postal services, the acceptance of shipping and the delivery of postal shipments up to a weight of two kilograms, postal packages up to a weight of ten kilograms, services recommended and valuable postal and postal shipments for the blind and visually impaired, the Republic of Slovenia is in the public interest under the same conditions permanently, regularly and undisturbedly obliged to provide all postal services to all users throughout its territory. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure adequate coverage of services where there is no commercial interest in the provision of such services. Only this is ensured by the establishment of a compensation fund that will cover greater costs for universal service providers in such areas. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the bill is properly prepared, so we will continue to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Matež Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u14	Respected and respected! Slovenians Lovrenc Košir proposed a system to simplify the payment of postal services by introducing a brand centuries ago and more than the first. Unfortunately, his proposal was not accepted at the time, so the inventor of the brand is England Rowland Hill, and Kosher proved in vain that he was the inventor of the postage stamp until his death. Well, maybe that's why the Slovenian brand is extremely appreciated among collectors today. Since then, we have been witnessing in a European and global scale the fundamental development of the postal market, technical progress, deregulation procedures and consequently greater competitiveness in the field of postal services. For many today, the postman is in contact with the world, and at the delivery of mail and packages he also performs an important social function. Slovenia's commitment to bring a new directive into its legal order constitutes, in fact, a commitment to the provision of quality and universal postal services for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at least five times a week on the basis of the principles of non-discrimination, transparency and proportionality. The gradual opening of the postal services market has given universal postal service providers sufficient time to introduce the modernisation and restructuring measures necessary to ensure long-term viability under new market conditions in an open environment without affecting the standard of services that we owe to people. The new European Directive thus establishes the full liberalisation of the postal services market, as has already been said, by 31 December 2010. In this respect, it is worth stressing that the directive was adopted just during the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the EU and today Slovenia is one of the first to implement its European commitments in its legal order. We therefore assess that the postal service law provides in an appropriate manner for the implementation, financing of universal postal services, conditions for the provision of these services, tariff principles and transparency of accounts with an absolute prohibition of subsidisation in the fundamental interest of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure to all postal service users throughout the territory under the same conditions a permanent, regular and smooth provision of universal postal services. With the amendment of coalition groups, we give the regulator a discretionary decision on the obligations set out in the decisions that have been issued on the basis of the law in force so far. Where these decisions no longer have their material basis in the interest of enabling the same and equal position of all postal service providers and providers. This also gives us the opportunity to fully implement the principle of proportionality at the same time as respecting and protecting the independence of the regulator. As has already been seen today with other parliamentary groups, the Social Democrats regard the proposed law as a good one. We estimate that the law properly establishes the full liberalisation of the postal services market and, at the same time, more precisely and better defines the rights of users and their protection, so we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The content of the proposal for a postal service law is entirely based on the text of Directive 2008/6 of the European Community. It also contains provisions that exercise the right under the Directive to Member States to regulate individual areas in accordance with their domestic legislation. The Directive fully eliminates exclusive and specific rights to provide services, reserved services or monopolies and thus establishes market release. The central amendment introduced by the Directive is the complete release of the postal services market. The postal market must be released by 31 December 2010 at the latest. While some Member States which have confirmed to the Commission by 27 August 2008 their intention to delay the full release of the postal service market, they have the possibility to maintain the reserved services during the transitional period until 31 December 2012. The objectives pursued by the proposal for a postal service law are: ensuring the implementation of quality and accessible universal postal services at least five times a week for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia without discrimination, protection of the rights of users and thirdly, promoting effective competition in the postal service market. All due to the full opening up of the market and the expansion of the postal service market. At the same time, the proposal for a new law removes shortcomings in terms of improving the provisions of the Postal Service Act 1, which have been demonstrated during its implementation. The amendment of the law follows the requirement to eliminate non-compliance and fulfils the commitment to harmonise Slovenian rules with the rules and technical requirements of the European Union in the field of postal services. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the law as well as the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word shall be given to Lois Posedel, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In the Group of Members, we will really support the draft law on postal services. We will equally support the amendment to Article 74 of this Act. The decision to support this was unanimous and simple. And if we had listened to the introductory presentations of all the parliamentary groups, we would have wanted such bills in this House very much. For we all support such solutions that are good for our citizens and citizens, and that is certainly the case with this law on postal services. The fact that this law or amendments are prepared on the basis of a European directive that requires the release of the postal market and introduces certain other things is the fact that the drafter has led the law to be the same as it is. We really support the Group and were therefore a little surprised by the discussions on the Committee that took place between the Government, the representatives of the Government and the company, Mail, or those who have tabled certain amendments on their behalf. It is very good that in this debate it has been shown that both the Government and those Members who support this position of the Government, on the one hand, we want to ensure that quality postal services are accessible to all and, on the other hand, that the introduction and amendments of this law do not drastically deteriorate the conditions of business of mail. That it was time and that it was enough to adapt to the changed conditions to ensure, also by the representatives of the Post, that both the expertise and the means were sufficient to enable this law to live to the full and that it would be for the benefit and satisfaction of our citizens and citizens, because it would provide quality, universal postal services, transparency and not cause any damage to the company that is already doing this activity. We will therefore also support the amendment to Article 74, which is also co-chaired by the Zares Group in order to allow for any additional measures necessary to introduce this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We shall proceed to the examination of the article and the amendment tabled, which shall be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 15. 6. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 74 and the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Someone wants to talk - I repeat. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. After all, you've all supported this amendment, if I understand correctly. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the time of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, within the framework of the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In fact, we have over two hours ahead of schedule, the government's representatives are not here yet. That's why I'm taking a 10-minute break so we can wait for them and then we'll continue the meeting. So we'll continue the meeting at 10.50. We give them so much time at their disposal. So, at 10.50, we'll resume the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. We're going to continue with six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for defence of a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on State Administration, a summary procedure. As already mentioned, the Government has submitted a bill to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for amendments to the Law on State Administration represents the first comprehensive revision of the working areas of ministries following the adoption of the Law on State Administration in 2003, by which the Government seeks to rationalise the work of ministries and align the working areas of ministries with the current legislation and directives of the European Union. One of the objectives of the bill is to reduce labour costs due to new organisation in certain areas and to increase transparency and transparency in the work areas of individual ministries. The law only changes in the work relating only to the working areas of ministries, but does not change in the work where the basic principles of the law are defined. The organisational structure is thus still moving, allowing for effective coordination between ministries. We therefore want to maintain rational, simple and transparent management of human resources. The main substantive changes to the law are: the transfer of energy efficiency from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of the Economy, the transfer of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the distinction between the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Health is clearly established. Certain powers that have not been regulated by law have been redefined and are in fact implemented by the ministries according to the needs and therefore do not have the right powers. For example, it is the determination of the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration in the field of systematic regulation of the organisation and functioning of the whole public sector. As you know, the Public Services Act of 1991 regulates the situation and organisation of public services. This area needs to be systematically renovated, the operation of these services modernised. We can see that today there was no competent ministry in this country with regard to the VZD, defined tasks to deal with this issue. As well as the powers of the Ministry of Justice in the area of alternative dispute resolution, there have been problems, and we have therefore complemented these working areas of these ministries. The work area of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance is also more clearly and specifically defined. We have reintroduced a limited range of types of rules of ministers, such as regulations, orders and instructions, and laid down the conditions for their issue. This has given us a facet if you want the name of the regulation, because we believe that this will ensure greater transparency of the legal order. Due to the inadequacy of past legislation, individual ministers have issued these sub-laws with names such as price list, recommendation and so on, resulting in a lot of opacity. We estimate that in this way, we will provide the users, stakeholders who apply these rules with substantial greater transparency, i.e. the regulations, orders and instructions are those acts which can then be expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. At its 5th meeting, on 29 May, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration as the parent labour force. We received it by the College of the President of the National Assembly, stipulating that the law should be dealt with in a reduced manner. The members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Committee of the State Council and a report from the Committee on the Economy which considered this law to be an interested working body. In the course of the business term, we have adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 7 of the Parliamentary Group of SDS to Articles 1, 2, 5, 7, 10 and 13 and amendments to Article 5 of the Parliamentary Groups of Zares, SD, DeSUS and LDS. Representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council for Public Administration were invited to the meeting of the Committee. We also invited the Director-General of Post and the representative of the Committee on the Economy. The representative of the Government, Secretary of State Dr Lobnikar, said roughly what we had just heard from the Minister, so I will not repeat this work. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, had some technical comments, which were also covered by the amendments. The President of the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements, Bogomir Vnučec, informed the Committee that the State Council was in favour of the law. The Committee also took note of the report of the Committee on the Economy, which it considered to be an interested working body. At the meeting of the Committee, Mr Milan Gumzar presented the report and also said that the Committee on the Economy, as an interested working body, supported the amendments by the Members of the Committee, Dr Luke Juri and Dejan Levanič, and the substantive amendment of the SDS Group, where this amendment was substantively the same. Members and members of the Committee listened to all these opinions in the debate, and the main focus was on the proposed transfer of telecommunications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education. Members of the coalition have advocated this and members of the opposition have made it clear that this is a unique solution in Europe and that no one knows that we combine mail, telecommunications practically with the university, which is incomprehensible. This was the opinion of the opposition, and members of the coalition defended it. Post Director-General Aleš Hauc also received the floor and said very clearly that he did not care about the field of mail, but that it seemed normal for him to be at the Ministry of Economy or possibly at the Ministry of Transport, and certainly not at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The coalition member, Dr. Luka Juri, was involved in a committee of serious critics and insults by the coalition MP, who indicated that he had committed a Pakistani act because he had tabled an amendment. What I thought, as chairman of the committee, was inappropriate, so I had to react. In the debate, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] This is an important part of the report because [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u24	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u25	because I thought it was completely abnormal for a coalition member to be so cruelly opposed to a coalition MP, which is unusual. [[...]] Then I'll do it again with a more detailed description. The Committee further adopted the amendments of the SD Group to Articles 1 and 13 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 5 but did not adopt the amendment by Dr. Luke Juri and Dejan Levanič to Article 2 and 7 respectively. On the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee further discussed and voted on all the articles and also adopted them. However, the law in this form is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! The Novela of the Law on State Administration regulates the work areas of certain ministries by redefining the tasks for which individual ministries are responsible. A more detailed definition of their content is intended to be drawn up by an act of the Government. The proposed amendment brings the field of energy efficiency to the Ministry of the Economy. With the transfer of energy and mining from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Space remained an effective energy use area. The amendment is implemented because the areas are linked by content and it is therefore considered that the same ministry is responsible for both areas. The area of electronic communications is transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, as the amendment which proposed that this area remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy was not adopted. The area of work covered by the post is also transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, as the previous article of the amendment, which would have prevented this, has not been accepted. Novela then defines more precisely the supervisory tasks carried out by the Ministry of Justice under other laws such as the Notariat Act, the Judicial Fees Act, the Enforcement and Insurance Act and, to a certain extent, the Free Legal Aid Act. With regard to international judicial cooperation, the Ministry shall, on the basis of notification, be designated as the central authority carrying out tasks in accordance with a directly applicable European legal act or national act. At the same time, it shall intervene and coordinate and other tasks on the basis of various multilateral and bilateral acts. The applicant shall, under cover, draw attention to the lack of organisational and human resources structure of existing Directorates and unclear relationships. It proposes the merger and work of the Directorate for Information Society at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Directorate for Electronic Communications at the Ministry of Economy in one Directorate, under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. A further amendment is made for the purpose of harmonising the Chemicals Act, which provides for the establishment of a chemical safety authority at the Ministry of Health, a new concept of public health is also introduced. The work area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is more clearly defined, i.e. only those international agreements which are within the competence of the other international agreements and are only responsible for the process of concluding agreements. Finally, the amendment reintroduces a limited range of types of ministerial rules, namely regulations, orders and instructions. In view of the latest events marking the electoral Slovenian political summit, the Slovenian National Party's Group strongly opposes the novel, which carries the very area of electronic communications into the competence of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. That is why we will not support the novels of the Law on State Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear, distinguished minister with co-workers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are given proposals in the amendment of the Law on State Administration that appear to be completely acceptable and understandable. We think it logical to transfer the efficient use of energy from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of the Economy, as this energy will be addressed within one ministry. We also absolutely support the rapid and coordinated development of the information society and the integration of electronic communications and information society under one ministry. However, it seems to us that the choice of the proposed ministry, nicely said, is unfortunate. You might even say controversial or professionally illogical. As far as we know, there is no case in the Member States of the European Union for this area to be covered by the Ministry of Higher Education. In our view, electronic communications and mail are part of general economic activities and it is therefore appropriate to seek other possibilities for merging these two areas. The Ministry of Economy is possible, which would certainly be a better choice than the Ministry of Higher Education. The Ministry of Transport would have been better, or as the Ministry of Information Society had always been. The so-called opponents of the novel have already been made clear that their arguments are political rather than professional. I must say, at a given time, that is understandable. The Minister, in whose direction electronic communication is to be transferred and the field of the information society has lost much of its credibility in these days, and we find it controversial to increase its powers and powers in an area where its ownership also makes its objective operation questionable. It turned out that the minister’s previous service was not only a former service but also a co-owner of this company, which has a strong link with the field of electronic communications and information society in view of its activities. This is therefore a very clear conflict of interest. It is also questionable that the Ministry of Higher Education imposes new powers on itself, while legislation in areas already in charge of the Ministry is at rest. This is evidenced by the fact that the Parliamentary Committee on Higher Education met only four meetings and that Mr Golobič, as a minister, did not attend any of these meetings. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that we are rightly asking and doubting the interests of good intentions or, say, professional arguments for moving the area of electronic communications and information society to the Ministry of Higher Education. We need to know that in this case there are also state investments in Posta Slovenije, Telekom Slovenije, Mobil, Siol, etc. and that this is not just some formal transfer of jurisdiction. For this reason, we will vote in the Slovenian People's Party's Group against the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Borut Saiovic has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting also to the Minister of Public Administration and to the co-workers, co-workers. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the bill for both administrative and regulatory reasons, not for political reasons, because if we look at the level of the European Union, the area of electronic communications and information society is integrated into the Directorate. There are problems in coordination with us because this is not the case, since in the Republic of Slovenia this area is divided between the powers of the two ministries, namely the Ministry responsible for the economy and the Ministry responsible for higher education and science and technology. This duality is also reflected in the co-existence of two Directorates. By merging into one Directorate, researchers and the economy would have a single interlocutor in their initiatives, which would also reduce existing administrative barriers resulting from the separation of these two areas. Such arrangements as we propose at this time, with the amendment of this law, exist in Germany, Great Britain, Ireland and certainly in any other European and other countries. The preparation of strategies and legislation from these areas will, after transposition, come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, while the economic part concerning mail will remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. The organisational and human resources structure of existing Directorates is weak, the relationship between Directorates is unclear. Their tasks and responsibilities shall be overlapped, which shall certainly impede the establishment of the ratio of strategic and operational activities. All of this certainly also undermines the ability to strategic development planning and to participate in European working groups. For the above reasons, we will support the proposal to combine these powers in one ministry in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which will also have direct positive public financial effects. But that certainly means rationalisation in some way. At the same time, I would like to point out that the transfer of two Directorates from the Ministry of the Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is not the only story in this law, no matter how long some of our colleagues and colleagues have devoted to this issue. The draft law also lays down, inter alia, the substantive competences of the Ministry of Justice in the area of important alternative dispute resolution. Furthermore, it seems important to draw attention to the competences of the Ministry of Public Administration in the area of systemic organisation and functioning of the whole public sector. Above all, we would like to draw attention to the shortcomings of the proposed Law on State Administration in the area of food and food security for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The safety of food and food in Slovenia and in every modern society is a very sensitive, important issue - important for every citizen and citizen. At the parliamentary club and in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that this area at the level of our country is not adequately and qualitatively guaranteed. Therefore, the powers of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Health are also confused in this case. We believe that in this case too, we must combine the competences of the various ministries into one agency or an office which will have clearly defined tasks, in particular by achieving an important objective of effective and necessary control over food and food safety in the Republic of Slovenia. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will wait for the conclusions of the professional study prepared by the Ministry of Health from this area, and then we will certainly propose to supplement the Law on State Administration, which will encourage the establishment of an independent, professionally strong and influential agency or the Office for Food Safety Control in our country, which I think will be important for all the inhabitants of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u33	Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As the Government argues in the role of proposing amendments to the law to the state administration, the proposal under consideration today is an attempt by the Government to rationalise the work of ministries and to align the working areas of ministries with the current legislation and directives of the European Union. As a result, this means reducing labour costs due to the new organisation and increasing transparency and transparency in the work areas of individual ministries. The discussions so far focused on the transfer of electronic telecommunications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. There have also been some concerns in the Group of Social Democrats about the transfer of this power. An amendment was also tabled, but there was no support on the parent’s working body. Thus, this regime remains the same as that put into the procedure by the applicant or the Government. It is likely that the debate we have heard in support of the rejected amendment will also be repeated today at the meeting of the amendments tabled, which otherwise affect entirely other substantive solutions, and that this debate will not be determined in full compliance with the business rules. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill despite some of the concerns we have had. It is not possible to reject the whole content because of the individual solution. The bill, however, brings important changes, changes to the better within the functioning of individual ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, according to the opinion and conduct of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which is the same as the opinion of the majority of the Slovenian public, comes almost exclusively from hidden and secret agreements before the composition of the government. These ultra-covered objectives have become clearer in public in the recent discovery of an attempt to conceal the ownership of companies whose owners have clear clientelistic interests in carrying out and directing activities related to electronic communications. It is simply a matter of sharing fevds, of directing large state funds, so it is no wonder that this time the amendment of the Law on State Administration has been overtaken by a public designation that it is an ultra law. The key content of the law is the transmission from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology from electronic telecommunications and mail. To this end, a few cosmetic unhappiness supplements have been added to cover up the ultra-purposes, which also represent a step backwards in terms of transparency and rationality. In their explanatory notes, the objectives of the proposal are to rationalise the working areas of ministries, to reduce labour costs due to the new organisation of certain areas, to increase transparency and transparency in the fields of work and to improve the user-friendly functioning of public authorities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that the actual objectives are precisely reversed and are a negation of the reasons for these objectives. In the event of the entry into force of the law, there will be an increase in costs, a decrease in transparency and transparency in the functioning of ministries and for users of the less-friendly functioning of state authorities, which will allow clienteleism. The solution to move the area of electronic communications and mail to the Ministry of Higher Education is completely unique within the European Union and more broadly, as this is placed elsewhere in Europe and more broadly within the Ministry of Economy or Transport or the Ministry of Information Society. This is a general economic activity which, according to the representatives of Post Slovenia, does not fall within the framework of the Ministry of Higher Education. E-mails fall into circulation and electronic communications form a vital part of the modern economy. Article 5 of the Law, which concerns the Ministry of Justice and provides a very loose provision on other judicial controls which is contrary to the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution, is also very controversial. This is also noted by the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes that such a provision should be clear and laid down as it may affect the principle of the division of power. The applicant shall also reintroduce in Article 10 three different types of the Minister's regulation: regulation, order and instruction. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the current rules of the Minister guarantee transparency and clarity of regulations. The only meaningful solution is to transfer the energy efficiency of the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of the Economy, but in doing so the government does not lead to rationality, but rather the interest that the area is transferred under the supervision of personnel who have access to ultra-interests. In the parliamentary group, we expected the Prime Minister of the Government to withdraw and stop the amendment of the law due to the involvement of Minister Golobic in concealing the ownership of Ultra since it is an obvious conflict of interest. Unfortunately, we note that the involvement of the customeristic link in the government is stronger than the desire for transparent regulation and administration of the state. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we strongly oppose amendments to the law, and we expect Minister Erjavec and the DeSUS Group, as he has predicted, to vote against it at this time and not to be forced to change their views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u37	Nice hello to you all! Amendments to the Law on State Administration were submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and it wishes to harmonise and implement certain amendments to the labour area of individual ministries, either by a clearer definition of the labour area, or by a more precise delimitation of powers or by transferring specific areas from the Ministry of Ministry. Among the most frequently mentioned changes are the change in the transmission of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Nothing out of the ordinary at first sight. Since the adoption of the Law on State Administration, governments have repeatedly proposed certain changes due to flexibility in adapting the current situation of new solutions, as well as adapting to their own consideration of the most efficient organisation of work. This was done twice by the government of Janša. And so far, it has been a silent rule that the National Assembly does not intervene and allows the Government to give its own consideration to the organisation of work in its field. This time, however, the amendment of the law receives great attention and also the politicisation of certain changes, ignoring the professional arguments and autonomy of the Government, which should nevertheless have the option of its own judgment. In the opinion of our Group, the responsibility for the organisation should be taken by the Government as a whole, as well as by individual ministers for their own resources. This has been the case so far, and most of the time we did not have broad discussions in the National Assembly. However, even if I consider the issue of the division of power, the argument of opponents is more political and has this call - referring to the alleged conflict of interests of the Minister for Higher Education or his hidden purposes with the above-mentioned areas. Despite the fact that opponents of the changes in the debate have consistently claimed that the Government is leading the government more politically than professional arguments, it has been possible to observe that it is the opposite: the government has responded to their findings solely by means of professional arguments, avoiding valuable judgements. When the professional arguments went to the opponents, they resorted to the minister's flat-rate and biased political convictions, accusing him of acts that he could or would commit. Such a discussion reminds me of the film success of the Minority Report, as the film is called, where it is a film about a highly technologically organised society in the future where crimes were prevented before they were even committed. And what is the main message of this film? That such a system is socially unacceptable because innocents may be accused of a crime that has not been committed or that has not been committed at all. I should therefore like to reiterate some of the professional arguments for the eligibility of this amendment. The organisational structure and staffing of the two Directorates at the two ministries is flawed. The relationship between the Directorates, the tasks and the responsibilities between them are unclear and hindering the establishment of the relationship between strategic and operational activities. The lack of coordinated and unified action undermines the possibility of strategic development planning and the implementation of a proactive approach in the development of the information society as well as creative cooperation in the working groups of the European Union. The cause of ineffective work is in the past. When the Ministry of the Information Society was abolished, its powers were divided into several ministries. This was a poor solution, and many have been alerting this for a long time, mainly from the professional public, including the Chamber of Commerce, which has already repeatedly proposed the merger of the two Directorates. The tasks, objectives and legislation in these areas are intertwined and the three pillars in this area, legislative tasks, research programmes and advocacy for the wider use of electronic services must run in a unified and coordinated manner. It has several arguments that it makes sense for the Directorates to unite and, last but not least, at the level of the European Union, the information society is regulated within the Directorate-General for the Information Society and the media and brings together the broader area of the strategic-specific approach to the information society and the field of electronic communications. In the Group of Members, we believe that it is reasonable for this area to be passed on, that there are mainly professional arguments to talk about, and that is why we will support the proposal for amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration was prepared by the Government. We in the DeSUS Group do not know that anyone would very strongly protest and make any statements that would disavow the government's competence as far as we know. I am speaking now on behalf of the DeSUS Group, which has always been united in support of the bill we have on the table. That's what you have to say for the sake of it, because it's insinuating otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u40	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u41	We don't care so much about the individual political intensification that triggered all of this. We are interested in what the Government, after considering, has gained some experience regarding the organisation of work, efficiency, human resources exploitation, etc., and what it considers to be a good change in order to be able to do better. That is why, as we understand it, the procedure was different, as stated in the cities, not by adapting to some particular interest several government departments, but by changing the way that it works as a whole and proposing within it those changes that could lead to the most efficiency and synergies, which is very often mentioned. Perhaps even this proposal for the transfer of mail and telecommunications from one ministry to another is not the most important. At least not to me personally. However, he received the most media and other attention, perhaps not even as much because of his professional reasoning as because he could be personalized and could be attacked by a client. But this is not in ambition or custom for the Desus Group. We are trying to think about whether they represent proposed improvements and whether they also mean complementarity. The situation, as we now have, that the various functions are too independent of each other, too scattered, is certainly not good. On committees, when we discussed the situation as we had or have had it so far, it was assessed as optimal. We all estimate that there are some types of dualism, we all estimate that it would be better to complement and synergise individual parts and thus achieve greater efficiency at lower costs. Therefore, it was not proposed that, although I could probably be supported by the DeSUS Group of Members, an amendment that would combine these functions and complement them in another ministry, but simply to maintain the existing situation. We believe that this is not the best one, so we support these changes. What might have been under-emphasized in the discussions on the transfer of individual powers, but we think it is very important, is the transfer of powers from one ministry to another, from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of the Economy. The effective use of energy is being given far too little attention. Both at the level of top government representatives and at the level of ministries, we also have such a very poor implementation of the resolution on the national energy programme, which is why we have such a terrible high consumption, such as electricity per unit of product, which is why we are so much more expensive and so much less competitive and we have so much less added value per unit. And because the effective use of energy in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space, if I may say so, did not feel the most, there was not enough proactive action, we support this transfer to another ministry, where energy is at home and where the efficient use of energy belongs. In particular, the fact that it is significantly better also significantly cheaper in terms of future generations to weigh savings first and only then on additional investments in new sources. We will therefore support this amendment and the amendment of the law and ensure that, because it has been heard differently, this unanimous position of the entire DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the examinations of the amendments tabled of 15. 6. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. So that there is no misunderstanding as to what we are discussing, I will read the amendment, namely, this amendment to Article 11, which reads: "In the first and second paragraphs of Article 11, the word "three months" is replaced by the word "three months after". In the third paragraph of Article 11, the word association shall be "replaced after six months by a word relationship". This is the content of the amendment that we will discuss. I can already see the hard-line on my face, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I'm opening the application. I'm asking you to sign up. So we'll consider you the third. Did the secretary want to talk right away or later? At the end. So, we're gonna go with this first round. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor first. You won't give any advantage in the bench. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. I'll give Dr. Gorenak the floor, as we said, as a third.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We know how through this law, how the ultra-interest coalition has prepared itself strongly, that the practical law has closed to the last detail, and there is an open field for the implementation of this law. And here there are substantial, important differences - whether the coalition will be able to enforce this ultra interest within three months, which could withdraw itself in the time of the "acid cucumbers" public opinion and public opinion, or, if we extend it, after three months. Then I am convinced that the public is in no way taking this plundering of the state, that some ministers and also a large part of the government are taking the country as prey, that the public will not allow it. The revelations that have occurred in this country lately are monstrous. The problem is that fundamental values have been attacked and rejected, on which the functioning of the National Assembly rests, and I am confident of the fundamental values for Slovenian citizens. And on these fundamental values, those in ultra orbit are simply excited. I was surprised when the Minister of State Administration noted in a statement that the recognition of lies is a new policy and a new quality. I must defend what is hidden from the purposes of this law. The cases were extremely well calculated before the government was formed. The coalition contract is a people's paper, and there's a lot of hidden stuff. Of course, with regard to these time limits, we need to restore the placement of this law to the extent that the parties were really interested after the intervention of certain ministries. We know that Mr. Rotovnik has already been registered as Minister for Culture, and Mr. Golobič has come and given [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u44	Mr Jerovšek, I would ask you to go to the amendment. You're talking about all the other stuff. You have a chance. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u45	Mrs. Shirca, only Mrs. Shirca [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u46	wherever you want to do it, but not with this amendment. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u47	Ms. Shirca [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u48	But not with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u49	It's a time frame. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u50	No one is defending you from having such or different views about Really, about communication, about any of us or others, but please, we are talking about the amendment that I read. And please say at least a word about this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u51	I'm talking about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u52	Formal at least [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u53	Timetable for the adoption of this Sectoral Law [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u54	You go completely past and abuse the rules of procedure in full and to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u55	Mr. President, get out of the ultra orbit, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u56	Dear colleague Jerovšek, I would ask that you treat the Chairman, whoever he is, in a certain respectful manner and that you do not use such methods in relation to the Presidents of the National Assembly. Whether it's the president or the vice presidents. That's exactly what I'm trying to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u57	Mr President, I think I have been unduly interrupted, which is why you need to understand. With regard to this law, the law also provides, as I mentioned earlier, a solution that makes sense with regard to the use of energy transferred from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of the Economy. But this is moving again after Mr. Copac. He used to be at the Ministry of the Environment when the minister was there, and now he's going to the Ministry of Energy. We know how targeted subsidies, money, and finance have been linked to this in the last period. It's an unconceivable interest, where, who will have these things in their already runaway ways. Electronic communications. I am sure that not even 10% of the ownership of these companies has been disclosed in the public, who is the owner there, who now participates in the government or ministries. I am sure that if this law provides for this to take place after three months, this solution will not be taken into account by any means. That it would not only seem to Minister Erjavac, as he said in the elections, that now it is not reasonable to insist that these things have been made public, that such a change in the law on state administration would then seem pointless to the President of the Government. We see that the Prime Minister of the Government also had to remove the centre of power, capital, which is now stronger than values. But I hope that, with the help of the public, it will come so far that after three months, after the time of the "acid coumarica", the public will be the one who will prevent these very serious, dramatic consequences for taxpayers, for citizens, because at the time of this recession, there must be state finances in this economic crisis, which, however, flow enormously through electronic communications and are the easiest to hide there, transparent and public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan. Please, Petan, just a moment. Procedurally, the flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the amendments that we are now supposed to be talking about are very embarrassing. If they were correct and followed the rules of procedure, then we should talk about the amendment. This has also been pointed out on your part several times. We should be talking about why the lecture "in three months" should change "after three months" or "in six, after six. I have not heard anything in the previous debate about this in fact. Because I know that the embarrassment is great, and because the motioners of this amendment want to talk about everything, I might suggest that we simply say that today, due to the higher interests of the amendment's proponents, we simply close our eyes and say that the rules of procedure for the next three hours in the National Assembly do not apply, that your interests can be realized and that there will be an open debate in the form of an interpretation against the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u60	No, it's a procedural proposal that was made. The procedural proposal was that the rules of procedure should not be followed, so we cannot accept it and put it to the vote. However, I would like to remind you that we are discussing the amendment to article 11, as I have read it, and I will continue to warn you if you are going to abuse the Rules of Procedure and discuss everything else, but not the amendment. The word is Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Since I received a certain lesson, by the way, just before I went to the amendment, I would say that we heard it from someone who could have said that he had been teaching us for some time now that pussy was the best place to keep a sausage. Now let's do it in a row. The amendment to Article 11 speaks as you have read, Mr President, - that the word "three months" is replaced by the word "three months" and in the third paragraph of Article 11 " within six months" is replaced by the word "six months". Without anyone thinking that I haven't read the rest, I think it's important what I'm going to read now, what the explanation of this amendment says: "The transitional provision defines the transitional period by which ministries will take over the tasks of relevant public servants, equipment, premises and budgetary use rights and on the basis of which they will harmonise their internal organisation and job system. This period shall be extended in the third paragraph in the case of the Ministry of Environment and Space." And then it goes on. Thus, it is about taking over tasks, public servants, equipment, premises, budgetary use rights and all that. The acts must also be harmonised. And to understand what the matter is, what acts, what people and what they need. Given that the field of energy efficiency is being transferred from the Ministry of Environment and Space to the Ministry of the Economy, the transfer of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. There is a clear distinction in the area of food safety between the two ministries - good, but we can discuss how this can be clearly defined and how this will now be the responsibility of the two ministries, and so on. Now let's do it in a row. So we suggest that this deadline be extended not to three, but after three or six months. All of this harmonise - the one who has ever worked in the smallest firm, prepared an organization, knows that this is a long-term process, that this is a serious process, a complicated process, that nothing is done on the neck. In systems like these ministries, it's even more difficult, so much more difficult, and it takes so much more time. I am therefore convinced that this amendment of ours is fully justified and I would even say that it is more than logical that it should already be in the basic proposal. On the part of the Government, it has been repeatedly mentioned that it is a matter of rationalisation, transparency, and that the human resources structure will remain moving. Look, rationalisation, transparency, we're just moving something from one ministry, where it was stable, where not every election was changing, we're transferring it to another ministry, we can't exactly say it was rationalisation. It's even harder to say it's a matter of greater transparency. At a time when a cat will move its young, as we say, there will probably be a lot going on, a lot of things that can become opaque, contrary to what the Government says. In addition, allow me to express my doubts about telecommunications in particular. In the field of telecommunications and mail to the Ministry of Higher Education, we could not exactly say that they have a special sense of transparency in this Ministry of Higher Education. If that were the case, then the employees of this ministry would not have a variety of mailboxes abroad that are hidden from the eyes, and that is why we cannot say that this is a matter of greater transparency. I'd say the other way around. That as a result of this move, as I mentioned earlier, when a cat moves its family, there can be a lot of loss in a mailbox somewhere else. I'm not saying that's how it's gonna be. But there's a chance we're moving something else. On the other hand, I could say that it is fortunate that some employees in this new ministry will get another chance, while others lose confidence because of their wife's broom and then have to resign or resign or resign them, the Supervisory Committee or something like that. I have my doubts here. When we move a system as big as telecommunications and mail. If I understand correctly, it's a system with a few thousand people. And it can't be tolerated by writing on a paper sheet, but now, for example, mail and telecommunications are no longer in the Ministry of Economy, but it's in the Ministry of Telecommunications. But if it's part of the mail, it's even worse because one part will stay on one end and the other part on the other end, but now it's a one-stop system. I understand it's the whole system. But if it's not, you're gonna teach me, but then it's even worse that we cut the system and move it to another ministry, and one part stays on another end. Then they will be able to send themselves bills and write to each other what used to be an internal matter. This thing isn't so simple and it's not so innocent and it doesn't go so easy and so fast in three months, up to three months when one whole system moves from one ministry to another. So we need to think about this thoroughly. This is what our amendment is talking about, which is why we say that this deadline should be extended. One more thing. I don't know, I don't want to, but I don't know why I get, when we're talking about mail, the transmission of mail from one ministry to another, to the Ministry of Higher Education, that this mail transfer reminds me of these mail collectors in the Netherlands, and probably Singapore. I don't know, I just get a picture and you can't blame me if it's happening to me, you can remind me, of course, but well, I'm getting this association.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u62	I will if you ask me, but I would say this. Mail is not transmitted from the Ministry of the Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, but it makes sense, if you are talking about mail, it is also a logical connection with postal collectors, and that is what each of us thinks, postal mailboxes and mail is a very clear connection. But mail as a company is not transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased that you have warned me about this, but then I must remind you that something may have to be corrected in this report of the Committee on Internal Policy, I do not know. I won't go by, I can understand it wrong, it can be thought otherwise, but something from the mail is obviously moving. Okay, well, then study what you actually wanted to say with this, but I still have these associations that I mentioned. I am certainly sure that three months is too short and that this deadline should be extended. We want this amendment to be done. We allow the government to prepare well for this transfer, so that it will not move during this move, whatever will move, I hope that the Government knows exactly that something will not get lost on any mailbox. On the other hand, I have already mentioned in part that any new organisational scheme, any new restructuring, any new transfer of certain powers or certain services from one system to another system means dealing with itself. In a system like this, it certainly doesn't mean anything for a month. Three months doesn't mean anything. And at that time, these services will deal with themselves. They're talking about who our new boss is going to be, who we're going to be responsible for now, what we're going to be doing, what we're going to be doing, whether we're going to be able to think with our heads, or if we're going to be blindly doing what we're going to get written, whether we can have any of our initiatives or nothing. These are questions that normally arise in people who go from one system to another. That's one. Secondly, the people who receive such a system must re-establish a system of governance with these new services and establishing new relations at human level. Given that it is likely that if at least part of this mail or communication is transmitted, then we know that the mail is also in another place, it is not in Ljubljana such as the Ministry, so I will probably not say that there will be any communication noises. I'm not going to say that because we have electronics after all, but we still need to communicate and when to be physically present. I am convinced that any such change, any such restructuring, transferring from one ministry to another, if not necessary, given that both systems have already been strengthened and have not changed every time, I am sure that it will not contribute to rationalisation, as the Government has argued, but will bring more costs. I'm not sure that this system will work in this system of migration without any noise. I used this because it's communications and I'm not going to say that the system is going to work worse, I hope not. However, I certainly hope that it will not work better, at least in this interim period, because there will be certain concerns of people who are employed there, if you also want communication noises, until the clarity of sound, tone and images is harmonised, if I express myself a little graphicly. Such a move is certainly not positive, especially if it is not necessary, and especially if it can be written on the skin of a particular person because of certain interests. I would also like to mention that, earlier, our fellow Member, who has taught us what we should not do and what we should do, has said that expertise should be left to the Government, but that opponents have political objectives in one way or another. You could say the opposite. This proposal is not the most professional for me. I agree that the government has the right to do this. We are confident in the SDS that things are moving too fast, so we have tabled an amendment to the 11th and we are working on Article 12. However, I believe that there is something preemptive about getting ahead of us, that you already know how bad our intentions are, and I don't think that's where we are. In addition, in this strong reorganisation, everything concentrates on some specific place at the Ministry of Higher Education, with a certain minister, you will not convince us that you are Mother Teresa telecommunications with ultra-interest. So please, don't give us such hints and accusations. The fact is, this is a huge money issue. Telecommunications and money, that's basically the thing that goes together. Thank God that's true, it's nothing wrong. But it's a battle, who's gonna do it, who's gonna have it in hand, who's gonna make it. That's what this is about. So it's not so much about the content that's said to be left to the government, but it's about the content that's connected to the money. And it's also about interests, and if you want, after these last events, it's about morality. And that is why we have doubts in the SDS that it would be possible to do so quickly so that it would be of quality. Because if such a change is to be made, it must also be done in a qualitative manner, but it is probably not just forceful, especially since it is a system of ministries. We know that the state administration is slower after inertia, but I don't think anything bad about it, but that's the way it is, it's legal everywhere and even in Slovenia. We will not say that we will change such legality in Slovenia. Therefore, it must be well planned, well prepared and then done to ensure that it is a matter of primacy and that the matter is also effective, so that it does not occur, if I can use communication noises, because it is a matter of telecommunications. We propose in the SDS that this time be extended a little bit, that things be done in a good way. Of course, our concerns about this remain, as I said, due to the huge amount of money that is in this system. This area of efficient use, where there is some money, may be added to make the matter look a little more beautiful, but telecommunications is the main purpose, and I obviously do not understand the postal part and who will have the money. I support this amendment of ours, and I also support the next one, which I'm probably going to call on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, and then she gets the word of the Minister of Public Administration. Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr President, I know the amendment and its contents. I assure you in advance that I will not, in any way, touch myself in the continuation of my appearance of the current political events concerning Mr Golobic. In no case will I touch what is probably painful for the coalition. The amendment to the transitional provisions, of course, refers indirectly to paragraphs 2 and 7, whereby this area of telecommunications and mail passes from the economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Mr Petan has already said in some way what and how and why this amendment has been tabled in order to give a thorough thought at that time to how it should be done. But I don't understand this amendment from another point of view. At the time when the law was introduced into the National Assembly, until the time when it was dealt with on the committee I am leading, those events that I will not talk about took place. And this is certainly a directly related matter, so it gives the amendment to the coalition another possibility that because of some extraordinary things that have happened at that time, not only will it think about how this will be done, as Mr Petan was talking about, but it will consider if this is done at all, if this will be done at all. The three - and - six - month period is a time in which that article of the law can also be corrected and not done without doing so. We cannot transfer the field of telecommunications and mail from the economic to the higher education ministry. This seems to me to be the most important message of these two amendments or this amendment. Take the time to reconsider the government’s coalition because of the events that have occurred and do not do so, and the law will correct them. Of course, it is possible for us to reject this law today, but obviously this is not what we expect. Alone, if I want to talk about this matter, there is only so much material on this subject that my professional colleagues have prepared for me, I will not break the rules of procedure, but as a Member I will consider writing such a law myself and making it possible for all of us, including myself, to have a thorough debate on this matter. Before this matter, which I will not talk about, it was actually on the Committee on Internal Policy and in the coalition that, at least for some Members, came to the conclusion that such a transfer is impossible. We also had an analysis for all EU countries. What one of the coalition Members was talking about, of course, is not true at all. It can paint someone else, not me. These two areas are nowhere in Europe, except in Denmark there is a similar situation, and there is no such situation, under the Ministry of Higher Education. The problem that I see is that now, if we really do occur in these six months, as our amendment or three months goes, until such a transfer, then we will have on one side of telecommunications, and Simobil and Mobile, which is all about the post office, at the university. Please! Although I know that these matters are not directly related, that they are independent institutions, that they are one economic entity and that they are another university, yet we will have a comical, funny situation. Therefore, it seems to me that in these six or three months it is necessary to think carefully about this. I am stressing that, as a Member, if the coalition does not do so, I will consider preparing such a law for which it cannot be tolerated. But we have three or six months. And it would be good for the coalition to think about it and maybe do it on its own. That would be good, too. It bothers me, earlier at my performance as a pay phone, some kind of bench attack that's tied to this case. That's disturbing. Also on the committee is Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, write down that you will be able to have a replica, in a dreadfully desperate way related to this amendment and to this area, attacked one of the Members and insulted him. I don't know what this lady is up to. One more thing has been said, regarding our amendment, that there are no political arguments and that there are no professional arguments. I will not talk about political arguments, because at the outset I promised not to talk about it. And I won't. As far as experts are concerned, the matter is clear. It's not in the European space. The European postal, telecommunications and university premises are not in stock. That's a professional argument. However, last week's political argument was clearly indicated in the media why such a transfer should not take place. About three or six months, the coalition has, in addition to thinking thoroughly about this transfer, as Mr Petan was talking about making one more thought and saying, "We are all making mistakes, correcting such a mistake." And it comes with a law whereby this transmission of telecommunications will not be transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education. I would stress, however, that if the coalition does not come to this realization, I will make this consideration as a Member myself. But then you'll hear everything that's in here. And today, I've saved you the pigeon case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u66	Madam Minister has the floor, please. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. You have a replica, Mrs. Orzmova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I have been challenged, I must say that I still think that today we would be doing less force and less violence against the Rules of Procedure if we take into account my proposal and take into account the conclusion that, at this point today, the Rules of Procedure do not apply, that we do not follow it, and that we all violate it in order. I think this would be much more appropriate for the National Assembly than, yes, I'll say, you're doing a variety of vocabulary exercises with which you want to excuse the fact that you're actually talking about the amendment. And the replica with which I subscribe to the accusation of the terrible way I used in the work of the Internal Policy Committee has nothing to do with this amendment, we agree, Mr Gorenak. Nothing at all. I have to say, I want to say publicly what I said. I quoted an address from the media, which was published and the submission of an amendment was characterized by a verbal link that it was a balinian move. I think that we have been in the National Assembly and that colleagues, especially colleagues, have used already terribly worse words than my verbal link to the Pakistani movement. I also use the word "boys" many times for my son, whom I love very much. And at the meeting, I apologized to Mr. Luke Yuri for this move, and not least, I think we're friends, and I said I even married him. I believe that far too much, as in many times, in these last days you have been marking this terrible way of accusing a fellow Member, and I hope that we will truly be such censorships, self-censorships, that you will bring this same censorship into your hands even when you use words or cynicism of the great and greatest kind. So I think this was an inappropriate accusation here, too, because we did have this debate on the committee. Once again, I have heard, in my nine years of parliamentary practice, really, really much worse accusations. You can also see in the dictionary how and what meanings the word "pobalin move" carries. Let those who accompany us now judge whether this is really such a terrible way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u69	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the motions for amendments! I really want to focus on the text of the amendment, which has been proposed and I would like to point out in the introduction that, as the amendment's proponents have written down and want to explain it today, there is a huge difference between these two facts. The amendment, as tabled, that the words "in three months" should be replaced by the words "after three months", does not mean an extension of the deadline for the transfer of staff, the competence for organisational changes, but simply and simply does not mean a time limit for the transfer of those powers. This, however, is inappropriate in terms of the appropriate and correct determination of jurisdiction. What does that mean? The government has made a very serious assessment and in the future provisions of Article 11 it has, after our assessment, set a reasonable time limit for the transfer of these powers. We propose that the other ministries transfer or assume, in accordance with this law, the tasks, relevant public servants, equipment, premises within three months of the law being implemented. This means exactly that the deadline for the application of this law will be 1 July 2009. The three calendar months are available to the competent ministry to carry out all these tasks, further to harmonise the act on systematisation and organisation of work, and we know exactly when this deadline is due and by what date these powers have been transferred at the latest and these tasks have been carried out. The delegation of tasks from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Environment and Space was estimated by the Government to be within 6 months. Thus, six months after its entry into force, it is a certain period, which means exactly six months after the entry into force of this law. You're proposing after six months. This means that the deadline is not set and, as I say, you have not proposed an extension of the deadline, but a non-definition of the deadline, so we do not support this amendment in the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 11? Check-in is on. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. We believe that the time limit laid down in the law to prepare everything necessary for the merger of the two Directorates and set at three months is entirely appropriate. We are convinced that the government knew why she proposed or why such a deadline should be adopted. It's a matter of content. It is a matter of bringing together two Directorates. On the one hand, in order that the two Directorates operating at this time at the two Ministries are in some way completely uncoordinated to do even significant damage in this area in order to bring these two Directorates together as soon as possible. And we absolutely agree with that. In doing so, I would like to say that the area covered by these two Directorates, namely the issue of competitiveness and the promotion of network and service development in these areas, is among those most regulated in the European Union. This is an area where the largest or extremely large number of directives are adopted, i.e. the area of electronic communications on the one hand, as well as the area of information society services. And the fact is, and we were aware that Slovenia has recently received quite an informal warning regarding its activity in this area, that we are not cooperating or acting in accordance with expectations and that, in fact, our representatives in Europe are also missing their participation and are not going to defend our interests in the preparation of various, as I said, very important directives. That's why I think a merger is necessary. I don't see any reason not to do it in three months, but maybe take a longer time. It just points to the urgency of this matter. I also believe that the 6-month deadline is too long, as many potential users also point out the whole range of problems that arise in this area, such as education, science, access to public administration, health care and the like, as they should be more actively preparing things, developing regulations and full-use programmes for various information technologies and services. We are far behind here, so it will certainly be necessary to work quickly and efficiently and to bring these two Directorates together quickly and efficiently. Last but not least, no one has mentioned this today - we are bringing together two Directorates, bringing together people from two Directorates, staff, and from now on they will be able to work together and work together together, which has been required by short-term inter-resor coordination. And I am sure that this will also bring substantial financial savings, as well as settle or resolve the many logistical misdemeanors that arise in this regard. I think that, at this point in the crisis, we should actually commend the Government if it has prepared solutions with which the operating costs of having two Directorates so far will be reduced, and from now on the Directorate will be joined in one Ministry. I must say that we too are happy with this solution. Once again, these are things that the Government should think about and take responsibility for. It is about its organisation, an agreement that ministers accept among themselves on how they will work most effectively and cover specific areas. And again, I think it's extremely rude for us to get involved in this in the National Assembly. I don't think there's been any such practice so far. Even when Janša's government has proposed such changes twice, you can see that there has not been much debate in Parliament. Finally, this is something decent, which also shows that we know and understand what separate branches of government mean, executive and legislative branches. I don't think we're aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u72	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u73	Of the amendments proposed, there is at least one specific feature that alerts us and reminds us that, in the third paragraph of Article 11, something concerning linguistics is poorly recorded and will need to be corrected, the tendency is not correct. However, this amendment, or both amendments, also has more awkwardness. I think that the first infertility in the fact that it happened in the home working body was that the article was closed and thus prevented the fruitless and unnecessary debate from taking place in the National Assembly, so another article had to be opened so that this article could then be abused and it could be discussed about what should not be discussed in the Rules of Procedure. That's the first flaw. The second flaw is in this - although I think the colleagues have then very honestly said what their main ambition is, but this is hidden, a shift in the time frame that speaks of something being set to the extreme limit and then changed this by moving it 'ad infinitum', perhaps in the next term or I don't know which one of the following would be able to put it into place, but it is a simple blockade; the blockade of this law due to this, because it failed to succeed in the amendment, which deleted the transfer of powers from one ministry to another ministry. The next shame is that this amendment is quite generally written and that it applies to all the powers to be transferred, not only to the one that was most attacked and which seemed to be the most problematic. I'd like to mention another embarrassment, which is why I can't support these two amendments. It's a mess talking about the next one. If those who support the bill, and in this regard the law and the amendment are linked, we believe that the Government will make efforts to better organise it, to compliment it on the transfer of certain powers, I will say, to make the area more transparent in order to be able to rationalised in the workforce, so that it can also be cost-effectively rationalised. So those who think it's worth doing this experiment, we can't agree with the amendment that says: don't ever do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u74	Mr. Magg has the word. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues. Fellow Member Willy Rezman is partly right. The amendment's proposal flies to the articles where it can be, because they have been opened and wants to report one disagreement between the Slovenian Democratic Party and the solutions that are already closed under this law and cannot be tabled by amendments. But what he's trying to say is that he can't stand this area. For the lecture "after three months, after six months" is also, as he said, a diction in the next term or in the next term or never. And so these two amendments are misleading what the coalition intends to do - it is to transfer electronic communications from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education. You have probably rarely dealt with this area in more detail in your life, and I can tell you that there is virtually no such practice in Europe. It is not for a simple reason, however, because in the case of electronic communications, it is a very commercial activity, a market activity that is anything but a matter belonging to the domain of higher education, science. My opinion, too, is that technology does not belong in this area. So, it is probably in Slovenia that this exception is due to the fact that we also have an outstanding minister in this area. And in fact, the minister led to this exception. There's probably something like that in Denmark. This is not a practice, this is a foreigner and we have a unique solution because of a unique person. That's my only argument. Another argument speaks against bringing these two areas together. In fact, it is a very important argument that the area of electronic communications, as it is now being merged at the Ministry of Economy, is primarily concerned with infrastructure and regulation at this point, but the information society at the Ministry of Economy is dealing with applications. You know, however, that the essence of regulation in the field of electronic communications is not to confuse or even abuse applications in terms of ownership and infrastructure. Infrastructure must be available to all and under equal conditions and services develop on this infrastructure, independent of ownership, ownership or dominance over this infrastructure. Therefore, he will already be seized here by the merger of these two areas of some conflict of interest. That's not good. It is particularly not good if, at the same time, the Minister who will have jurisdiction over this is, of course, one who is also ownership involved in electronic communications companies. Well, now we have a real problem. We have a problem bringing together in the minister's department areas which are in the direct ownership interest of a single person. I don't know if it breeds some unacceptable feeling in everyone - in me and in the SDS! That is how I believe that this proposal is on the table and that the Minister of Public Administration, who has nothing to do with it, is in charge of this law on an official basis, and therefore, with a mere substantive change, is likely to have nothing to defend, but it is an important substantive matter, which also points to the creation of certain kindergartens within the Government. The ferrets, which can be profitable as a result, especially when we see and monitor the activities of companies owned or owned by the Minister and who are still cutting into this department which is now being transferred. We cannot get rid of this feeling that this solution is written on one person’s skin. For if it were not, you would probably be thinking again about the establishment of, say, the Ministry of Information Society, as was the case in the previous mandate, and would probably be joining this ministry, for example, this Directorate of Media in the Ministry of Culture, because it also has an electronic communication connection, and if there was some interest in combining related content in one place and consequently rationalisation. And there's something else that's actually dangerous. It is true, under the competence of this, that, for example, a more formal competence, the Directorate also belongs to APEK, the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications - an important regulator, which must be independent and how important it is to remain independent. However, it is known who is proposing various things regarding the APEC to the Government, not least leadership, leadership discharge and the like, who is proposing some kind of performance or something similar to the director of this agency. And all of this is the influence that someone now wants to have on this regulator, and this regulator knows what he's doing: he regulates the field of electronic communications in the broadest sense and he detects abuses in the electronic communications market, he says measures, and it's nice to have it in his pocket or his wallet. Thus, for my key reasons, which led to this proposal, but not this ridiculous, ridiculous argument that this must be combined due to rationality. Tell me how many less people, how much less material costs, how much equipment, how much will you save with this merger! How much - nothing! And what will be better, what will be better? And what one of the Members has allowed herself to say is that we have received more informal ones, I do not know what informal warnings from the European Commission about appropriateness. The country that actually brought the third package of liberalisation into these markets into final adoption, our solutions were finally adopted, those negotiated by Slovenia. Now to talk about that we are some "black ducks" in the fact that the Commissioner, who is concerned about competition in electronic communications markets both in terms of market development and in terms of other uses, the Internet and other matters related to development electronic communications in Slovenia, has in some ways highlighted us as a good example to others. There's been a lot going on here with the existing organization. I am not saying that more could be done, and I am particularly critical, although in the past this has also led to a stalemate in investment in the broadband network. Here, Mr Gantar, who was previously a minister, and I have also criticised him, shared the same fate of stumbling operators in the development of these networks at every step, especially the dominant operator in Slovenia, this is Telekom, because they were not in the commercial interest that the country was developing a broadband network in rural areas differently than they had imagined, they blocked the country wherever it came from. This, of course, was too late to realize that we could have done anything before that. So this is also the task of this directorate, and I do not know what will have higher education and science with the development of a network of optic cables along the rural and where it is necessary to cooperate with the municipalities, especially the municipalities, to find out where those grey foxes are or where it is meaningful and prudent to do so. So it's really not that it's some interest in efficiency, rationalisation, that someone wants this department in their portfolio because of clearly expressed personal interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u76	Yes, please, Mrs. Orzam, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr President, again just to make sure that it is recorded, I would point out that Comrade Vizjak has talked about everything else, but not about why it would make sense for a transfer of six months instead of three months. I continue to suggest again that today, at this point, we say that the rules of procedure do not apply because, above all, the colleagues of the SDS are persistently violating it. I think it's "raping" this choir. I agree to agree to this. Once again, I suggest that you think about this, because it really makes no sense for us to make such a force of the document that we have agreed on, but which today shows that it is simply not possible for colleagues from the SDS to tell the content and have severe problems. I'm really feeling really uncomfortable because I'm a part of this. Let's talk about it, the rules of procedure are not in force today, we are breaking it, and we are all just going to talk about what comes to mind about this content and we will have a law fully open.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Orazem, I agree with what you have said. In particular, I agree with what Mr President of the National Assembly has said, and he has warned us all about what we are discussing. When I took the lead, I realized we were back on track. I'd say, in the National Assembly, it's said twice in the mill. But the National Assembly is not a mill, so I ask you very much to stick to this because we have decided to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u79	Procedurally. Unlike Mrs Orazem, I have a procedural proposal and I propose a five-minute rest period for Mrs Orazem to read a magnetogram. In fact, I started by arguing why we proposed an amendment and why we think the amendment is good. This is because it is possible for this law to never come to life in the sense of this transfer: it can never, ever, after six months, be within a hundred years. In fact, I have further reinforced my view of why I think it is right. It's not true I didn't talk about the amendment and explain the amendment. And that is why I propose, Mrs Orzmova, that you read a magnetogram, and this is a procedural proposal. The lady will definitely need a few minutes to do that. And if he thinks it takes a break from this choir - why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. A visor. I listened to you very carefully. I can't exactly agree with what you just said, but I'm not taking a break. We continue to discuss Article 11 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. It's hard to talk about just one sentence or one word, because things are never black and white, but there's only one thing that needs to be explained differently. If we limit ourselves so much that no one can say anything or mention the words of a minister, a name and a surname, we will probably find it difficult to say anything here. At the outset, Minister Krebsova said that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration had been introduced and was ready for greater transparency and transparency. This minister is not exactly aware of transparency and transparency, so as most of my colleagues, I think we are doing a great deal of damage to the country. Because what John learns is what John knows; just as Gregor begins to do, so he continues until, of course, he is caught again on some lies. When we adopted, that is, when we discussed the law on the committee, the Ultra and Golobič affairs had not yet been or had just erupted after this debate, and at that time we drew the attention of the opposition Members to what we see the problem. So it's passed on to an area that's very interesting to Minister Golobič at another ministry. We have also pointed out that no European country is aware of such arrangements, even though coalition Members have prevented us from looking at things completely wrong throughout Europe, only with us, we see clearly where this area would belong. So telecommunications are placed in the Ministry of the Economy in most countries. We've listed the countries. We've had a review. These are Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Estonia, Spain, France, Hungary, the Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Telecommunications, which are at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, are regulated in the following countries: Ireland, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Austria, Slovakia. Telecommunications are in the special Ministry of Communications or in a similar ministry in Italy, Cyprus, Romania. And as mentioned today, only in Denmark are telecommunications placed in the Ministry of Science. And we have already said on the committee, and I reiterate that we cannot get rid of the impression that it is a matter of adapting the Ministry to the Minister, because it is obviously even more important than the President of the Government. And this is what article 11 is talking about, and we have also tabled it to reconsider these matters. Think about it, we've already given it a lot of thought, and we know how things should be arranged. Because, given the situation, every day in the media, something else may happen and learn about the ownership of Minister Golobic, and perhaps even some new minister will take over this city, which may not be as interested in this area as Minister Golobič is in this moment. That's why I'm going to support our amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u82	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow the President to put my trust in you at the outset that I too will be in breach of the rules of procedure, that I would not be an exception to this subject, and that I will say a little more, than only touching the amendment to Article 11. They say that there is no world in the world that cannot be changed, changed or replaced by better things. And when it comes to organizing work, it's definitely the river that's in charge of this thing. And the organization of work as a professional science we imagine it in this way without any mix of political topics that we hear today. It seems very good to me that the government and the ministry are proposing a reorganisation that will bring, or its objective, rationalisation, which will also pursue the objectives of organisational sustainability and, last but not least, the impact on public finances. And this is supposed to mean for me to introduce some kind of house order, some house discipline or hygiene into the government's house, which will come and come faster to the set goals that it has. And in all of this, it is clear to me that these objectives are well-intentioned, as I am looking at the proposal for reorganisation itself well-intentioned, although I am personally very well aware, and I know that a particular area such as telecommunications, including in the current organisation, when it belonged to the Ministry of the Economy, has been well-established, I know that no matter is so well set that it could not be better. We will therefore fully support this proposal, which has also been proposed. As for the amendments tabled by the SDS, then let me say how many times we talk about how slow the Government is, that it is reckless, that it responds too slowly to certain things and changes, that its action time is a proposal. This amendment, however, aims to achieve the opposite so that this time of change of the organisation in the Government may be extended or not set at all. And I know that the government, with this hand you set, three months, six months, gives you a lot of effort and a lot of weight. I just want all these moves that are very difficult and take time to realize, then we can only congratulate and say: we want you to succeed. And that's why I can't be for some amendments that will extend their arms and put them back into our minds and into our mouths and into words and actions that the government is too slow to respond too slowly and that it is inflexible. That is why I fully support this bill and cannot support this amendment, which is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting. The old rule says "bad conscience is a bad thing" and I must say it's fun to observe nervousness on the government's side when it advocates this law. Of course, all the comments on the procedure are completely irrelevant, as the proposal of our amendment is made with a view to removing and thereby easing the harmful consequences that will result from the implementation of this law if finally adopted. And how can we, ladies and gentlemen, advocate this differently than to present these harmful consequences very clearly and transparently to you and, of course, to the entire Slovenian public?Oh, my God! From this point of view, all those strong comments, in particular one of the Zares Members, can be paraphrased only by paraphrasing one well-known leftist Bible, which in this case would be about: fear creeps through Slovenia, fear of freedom of the real free public word. And of course you try to limit it in every way possible. Well, what are the consequences in reality, and why is such a strong nervousness on the other side, and why have we proposed this amendment to eliminate these harmful consequences as far as possible? It's just a simple fact. This law, which you are proposing, is nothing more than a formalisation of a policy that defines citizens and citizens as dairy cows, which you milk with crazy high excise duties, prices for petrol, raising prices of vineyards and everything else, which, at the same time, you are doing, at the same time, regrettably, the types of people waiting at the Employment Institute, you - ladies and gentlemen - are still sharing the electoral spoils and with this very law you are devoting to Mr Golobic a very fat piece of this election spoil. Everything else that's in this marriage is just ornaments that hide this content. And because we cannot agree to this, of course we will vote against the law. I will personally support this amendment, because, as it is said, it is his goal to have the harmful consequences of this notion of people as "male cows" and the simultaneous division of the country as a prey, which is now being given to Mr Golobic, I cannot agree with it, and I will try to take these harmful consequences away from this amendment. But, of course, the law, the content of which is only and only if we reflect all that beauty and beauty, in no way, even if this amendment were adopted, which, according to your statements, is certainly not going to be, I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u86	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the amendment myself, because after the government's already mentioned impotence, which knew mainly through the anti-crisis measures, it seems to me that six months is too short, because my personal experience of moving, getting together, etc. is that even after things move, things don't work for a while, they're looking for drawers, etc. So the amendment has to be supported. I think we need to back him up. Of course, I'm having trouble supporting the law itself. It appears from a quick perspective that the law has several cosmetic supplements that form some kind of smoke screen on the main topic, and this is the transfer of communications from the Ministry of Economy to higher education. It has already been mentioned that this is a unique thing in the European Union, an exception is Denmark because of a specificity, but otherwise communications are a matter of the economy, not of higher education, unless we intend to invent something else in the field of communication, which I doubt. I'm also surprised that the execution itself is wrapped by side roads through other ministries, through other people, and I could say we're not going hunting snakes with someone else's hand. I'm also surprised who actually set the frame for a certain minister to jump out and get his share, the spoils of electoral division, but that's not the most important thing. However, I am concerned about the consequences, or possible, of the route that will result from the transfer mentioned above. In fact, things that are open, which will have some kind of unique Slovenian solution, may be a new toll system. The basis is already being prepared because we are constantly talking about vignettes and vignettes and this system is supposed to come as a means of salvation, that it will not show itself in five years' time when Europe will launch its own, when it will finally launch Galilo satellites and the whole system, etc., that they have A and us B, that is, something incompatible and "jove to new" to change the whole technology. I certainly cannot agree with the situation that will arise, which will become monopolistic when it comes to a small plastic card, the "flicko" has to pay enormous prices, but I am particularly wondering how compatibility with the position of the minister and the business moves that are being conducted privately. So a marriage that starts very innocently hides a whole bunch of traps, and as such I certainly can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u88	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm opening a debate. Report. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dearly greeted Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! If you intend to actually transfer this part of postal services to the Ministry of Higher Education, then you may be afraid of what Mr Lahovnik said he would resign from the Ministry of Economy. Then it's okay if you shut down the Ministry of the Economy and actually transfer it all to the Ministry of Higher Education. Thank God we got rid of one piece of red tape. But if you're thinking about how to spread from day to day bureaucracy and, on the other hand, destroy the economy, then I don't know when you'll be looking for economic operators who can feed this devouring country. That's the question. These birds drag, drag here and there across the country, and in fact they always find some grain that they swallow again in their pocket that bird. Have you ever asked yourself, ministers, Members of Parliament, how to reduce the cost of the country? You're just wondering how to fill your pockets - an individual thing. Do you ever wonder how to make up for 117 companies that went bankrupt this year? Who actually works for state bureaucracy? When are you gonna start asking yourself these questions? Then believe that this country will be able to succeed. Why can't I agree that it's actually coming from the Ministry of Mail Economy, postal services actually to the Ministry of Higher Education? On the working body, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Economics said that because they have too much work and they have less work at the Ministry of Higher Education - that's why! The State Secretary from the Ministry of Higher Education said that they are thinking in the long term that this resource will be created their own. What about another ministry? Thank God Slovenia, we are world champions after how many ministries we have or how many we want. You're wondering who's gonna work for red tape? That's why I'm against him! Let's start thinking about how we're going to bring together certain ministries, not expand the resources. That is why the worst part is that ministers do not even know each other who the minister is, so that they can cooperate constructively and work for the citizens of Slovenia. These are things that are inconceivable. In fact, Slovenian citizens are asking how far this country thinks to take this unfair, unproductive policy. I absolutely agree, and that is why we have also tabled this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to actually try to prevent this lobby and these things that are happening in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u90	Madam Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u91	Your Honor, I allow myself to correct your statement, which I do not think is correct. With two statements, I would like to paralyze, saying that we are expanding bureaucracy and trying to illustrate this transfer between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology as an example of the spread of bureaucracy. Only the sentence in the report of the parent working body that I will not make these assessments myself: "Most members on the committee agreed with the Government's arguments that the field of information society and electronic communications and mail should be merged into one field and thus, through a coordinated steering function, contribute to better meeting the needs of users." It is therefore a merger and one Directorate will be created from two Directorates, which means that one director is less, which certainly does not indicate the direction of increasing jobs, which also brings better wages in their function. And if you have asked whether the Government is even considering how to reduce the cost of the country, I only remind you that, fourteen days ago, we have submitted a review of not only the crisis measures, but I think that 30 pages, not the austerity measures, but all the activities carried out by the Government at this time, all with the ambition of reducing public spending, in the work very successfully, in the second, but the public spending for the public sector is falling significantly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u92	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u93	Your Honors are here! I support the amendment, because it is only in this way that it is possible to prevent what is not acceptable. Opinions on where electronic communications and mail belong are, of course, a chapter of the different interests of individuals and parties. According to the Slovenian National Party, this is an area which is part of general economic activities and does not in any way fall within the competences of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Development and marketing are certainly more recognizable in the field of economic activity and it is also right to separate from higher education, which has nothing to do with this. As is known, the main activities of postal services are universal postal services, which are shown by typical economic activity, as we know them in Europe. As we have seen, the postal representatives themselves are not seen elsewhere than in the Ministry of Economy or in the Ministry of Transport. And that's their only and true, acceptable placement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u94	Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I am very embarrassed, and I am sorry that colleagues from the SDS Group have written such an unfortunate amendment that limits the debate on what is being discussed all the time. I warned you earlier that we should not discuss certain things, but you are. And now I am alone in the face of the same dilemma and temptation. Of course, I will not support this amendment, because it is clear - the amendment, we could say such a not overthinking abuse of Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which allows the amendment to transitional articles, and then a discussion of the law in whole or in particular dilemmas can be carried out. Good. I am sorry that this is the case and that we cannot have any comprehensive and substantive debate on this matter, but it was on the committee, but I would say the following. In some ways I would mention, however, if I should discuss, then I would say that it is necessary to say first that the management of Telekom Slovenije's ownership shares and of his daughter Mobilel and Mail Slovenia and perhaps any smaller operator who is possibly in state ownership, partly or not, remains at the Ministry of Economy and is not transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. And a second time. If the Minister were here and was able to talk about this widely, I would remind him that the Director of the Directorate for Electronic Communications at the Ministry of Economy was under the pressure of the Commission of the European Union and the Directorate for Information Society to withdraw from the Supervisory Board of Telekom because they had found a clear conflict of interest between the regulatory and legislative functions and membership in the Supervisory Board, which represented the best interests of the company. And he had to step down. It is therefore important to transfer this area of electronic communications to somewhere else, we can discuss where, but must not be where management of the ownership of Mobile, Telekom and Postal Slovenia is. So where do you want me to put it? I would very much agree with you as the former Minister of the Information Society to set up such a ministry. You have seen that such an idea is not present even in the coalition, and even less so in the opposition. So where do these things go? Certainly and probably not a major dilemma here, the area of electronic communications with the information society needs to be rejoined. Why? If I should speak about this, Mr Vice-President, I would tell you that there is a convergence of energy, i.e. network services, content services and that most of the directives of the European Union cover both electronic communications and information society, and there is no more separation between them. And that turned out to be a problem. A year later, two later, I was warned by the European Commission that Slovenia is no longer present, that they do not walk, that one Directorate is speaking to the other and no one is going up and no one is involved in creating new rules. Two years later, I was warned that our representatives were not in this, that third body, which is very important for regulatory and other and "police making" functions in the commission and not even in Slovenia. Why? Because we divided a small rationally organised group into two parts and neither of these two parts could work well. But we haven't increased the amount of employment. And if this is to be brought back together, it is essential to do so and, of course, in the structure, the administrative structure, if I should talk about it, I would tell you this, this is the most natural environment of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. This structure is definitely because this area is so strongly linked to scientific and technological development and is somehow linked to this in all countries. Some countries do not have these things under the ministries, but they do have special government services - in England, in the United Kingdom, etc. And our regulation is still the closest to this regulation, which the Commission has as Director of the Information Society. If I were to speak, I would tell you that a minister, any minister has no authority over the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency and a new minister, if this is transferred and when he does, will have no Golobič. And I am very sorry, I would say that the former Minister does not know today that the APEK- Mail and Electronic Communications Agency is an independent body, which even has its own source of funding and is financed by the contributions of operators and is more than a government, but over it is the European Commission and the European Regulatory Agency. He is more responsible to her than to the Slovenian government, and he cannot interfere with her at all. But I'm afraid this minister who's not here right now, his ex, didn't know that for four years, and that's what I'm worried about. And I hope the new minister knows that and he won't do that. If he doesn't, we'll grab his fingers. And the other thing I'd say is that there's a lot of ignorance, not knowing about placement. Well, I can no longer talk to anyone about placements and if we had a debate about it, I would carefully and widely discuss that electronic communications and information society services are a free economic activity, but in terms of achieving the social objectives our societies have, in some areas the market cannot do everything. Or: some things are not possible, they cannot be regulated by the market. Therefore, this free economic activity is upgraded by services such as the development of broadband networks in areas and services where private operators are not paid for this, that the market does not know how to deal with problems such as internet security, or at all, data protection, the fight against abuse, etc.; that all these things are highly dependent and that the success of these communications depends on the regulation of these things, it is clear to everyone just to look at the problem of combating abuse, such as cards or payment means on the Internet and so on. It is therefore clear that this matter must be united, it must be linked to the most vital area governing scientific and technological development, and this solution is good, meaningful. After all, I must admit that some boasted that they were writing laws, if I should, I would tell you that in the coalition contract, of course, the father-in-law, defending this reunification, this time with the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, was me. And that. On 14 October 2004, a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy was held. Mr. Grimes is here. At the time, we negotiated and negotiated, and we were very close to bringing the area of information society and electronic communications into line with the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and leaving the company with the Ministry of Economy or transferring it to the Ministry of Economy. We have come a long way, but this proposal has not been adopted. I heard informally later, if I should, I would tell you that the reason was that the SDS did not want to leave its sister party to electronic communications. To the detriment of, I'd say, later development. That's a fact. As for the economy, that's what I'd say. Destroy the economy. In fact, I'm really interested in why such nitwits are destroying the economy. Why all these charges? If you have them, go to the courts or anywhere. Why destroy a Slovenian company, why prevent it from working at home? Just because he's connected to her in one way or another, but in a transparent way, you see, one of the politicians you hate so much? I don't know if this is good for Slovenia, to be a champion in such a destruction of a firm that is solid and that achieves its main interests in international markets. But I don't want to defend him, because I don't even know him -- not in good, not in bad, and so on. I will not support these amendments. I believe it is evident that these two areas need to be brought together. I believe it is evident that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, whoever is running it, is therefore most appropriate in the national structure of the organisation of state administration. And, of course, we must ensure that the APEC is an independent and independent agency - apparently - according to the former minister - it was not. In fact, we must draw as much from this development of the information society as possible for our people and improve the quality of services and services in this area. Once again, I do not think - but I do note that regulatory, administrative and policy-making in the field of electronic communications, the information society has no connection or formal or institutional connection with the management of the ownership shares of Telekom, Mobile and Postal Slovenia, if any, we are at fault with the Commission of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u96	It's a replica. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] Well, I'll believe you. [[..]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u97	Mr President, it is nice to believe, but I suggest that you also check the magnetogram, and you will make sure that you have done the right thing now because I have been specifically named even with my last name. In fact, what I should have said to my esteemed colleague, Mr Gantar, is that the first was that it was a purely false reference to me in its entirety, because in 2004 I was certainly not a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and in this part it was completely misinterpreted. The other thing to stress is this: it is very disturbing to constantly induce abuse of procedure when we talk about it. For I have already made it very clear that if we are proposing an extension of one deadline in order to mitigate or at least mitigate the harmful effects for the benefit of citizens and citizens and therefore to act in their favour, then we can only justify this by presenting these consequences. Third, which is particularly important if you are already using these terms, such as abuse of procedure, abuse of procedure, and I claim, the greatest abuse of procedure, Mr Gantar, but it is precisely in the fact that the law on the division of electoral spoils, which is called the Law on State Administration, which is proposed after a reduced procedure, is not a commercial reason for this and you have adopted this right into the college that you run. In fact, if something were to be accepted now after a reduced procedure, these would be laws that would help relieve the Slovenian economy and revive economic development, rather than share the electoral spoils, which you do months after the elections, regardless of the fact that from once dream 7.5% of economic growth we have collapsed in just a few months to minus 8.5% of the decline. And you prefer to deal with the economy and stop sharing electoral spoils and at least to abuse the reduced process, and then use this reduced procedure as an argument not to talk about the essence of what this law actually brings. Intercultural dialogue requires, this is a fundamental principle of intercultural dialogue, to speak openly and without distraction. We're going to do that in the SDS, believe me, we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u98	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please. You're giving up? Mr. Franci Kek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support this amendment because it's irrelevant. However, he is also aware of the very nature of the proposal, the SDS, which he has tabled only with the aim of being able to strike on the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic. They use various manipulations, they talk only about the Ministry of Higher Education, they talk about how the post office and universities do not go together, and they never say that it is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. At the same time, each time, they propose a word, a sentence, or two that associate with the convictions of a worthy tycoon. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you put in an interpolation? Put an interpellation against Minister Golobic so he can at least defend himself against everything you do to him. Put in the interpolation!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u100	We've exhausted the list of all the applicants. Mr. Gantar, please, what do you want? Another round. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. We will discuss the amendment to Article 11, once we have concluded the general debate. Mr. Branko Marinic, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. There is nothing more than the important content that has already been completed, to discuss only transitional and final decisions. Articles 11 and 12 have also been amended by the Slovenian Democratic Party, in which it wishes to clearly define certain matters as regards the deadline or the beginning of the transfer of all functions relating to the content of the law. It is difficult to base everything together if you do not get to the point and content, because it is also related to our amendment proposal. It is not possible to bypass the current situation when such important content is addressed, and in this context also the related amendments, to transfer this to the ministry, whose minister has recently been the target of various conversations, observations and indiscretions. This, whether will or will not, brings about a moral compulsion between Members and Members to talk about it. You know, to call for the content of this law to be interpreted by the Slovenian Democratic Party and thus to correct the major irregularities of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, of course, is the matter of every political party represented in the National Assembly, and it is not right for coalition Members to mix the content of these amendments and this content with the call for us to decide once and ask for a debate on the responsibility of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Leave it to us. We will act in a timely manner in accordance with the business arrangements. What I think is very important is the system such as the Post of Slovenia, such as the Slovenian Railways, and there may be some other comparison. These are, of course, systems that require a lot of time if we want to restructure them in some way, if we want to eliminate one part of the whole system and somehow attach it to another reserve system. That is why we have also tried and wanted to define clearly in this amendment how and how we would ensure the time needed to prepare all of this at some reasonable time. Because these are important things that will be quite happy in the Post Slovenia system, as after its implementation - as stated in the transitional and final provisions - the law enters into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Imagine one system of Post Slovenia, which is not for one fence, but is throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, that there is a need for great effort, and especially a great deal of knowledge and ability of people in the Post Office itself and perhaps also the involvement of some external collaborators to try and bring this legal provision into the system of life or functioning in new circumstances, under a new organisation. That the content of addressing this bill, as well as these amendments, is at this time, but we are not at fault - as you constantly tell us - in the Slovenian Democratic Party. What you've cooked in coalition parties, just eat that soup. We really didn't have anything to do with this feeling in public that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who wants some divisiveness. You've caused this to yourself among the coalition partners, and now bear it yourself. But it is true that you would like a little more substantive discussion, but you have made this impossible for us. That is why, as you can see for yourself, we are the politicians we know about these things - there are no other options left than to discuss articles 11 and 12, to which we have also tabled an amendment. But believe that what we propose in these amendments helps to make things right at some reasonable time. So take your time, for your speed has already cost you dearly. It seems very important for us to agree and with some sense to confirm the proposal of these two amendments to Articles 11 and 12, as we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u102	Madam Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. For the sake of clarity, the amendment's proponents. If you have proposed the contents of the amendments for reasons, as you have explained now, I must tell you that you have been led by the wrong motive. The company, the Post of Slovenia and Telekom, which you considered should be extended, as you say, in order for the transfer to be appropriate, are not subject to any other regulation in this law. The competence of the Ministry of Economy in these two companies remains, and this has been said many times. And if this motive has led you to prepare this amendment, I am simply explaining that it was wrong because you need to understand that society remains under the influence of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I'm going to say again what I said before - I'm not going to talk about the Dove thing so you don't get hurt. That's not today's theme. Today's theme is that. And he'll come if he has to. Of course, I find it very difficult to understand the situation when some of you explain how the Post Office and Simobil Mobile are now, and I don't know who else will have anything after this transfer with the Foreign Minister, and you compare it with Western European countries. In my previous performance, I made it very clear that there is no such model in Western European countries, something similar in Denmark, and there is no other model there for entirely other reasons. Of course, direct comparisons in this regard between Europe and us are not possible. In fact, why? Many of these systems have been privatised in many Western European countries, but in our country they are owned or owned by the state. That means what? That orientary ministers still have a strong influence on the appointment of supervisory boards in the administration, etc. and here is the problem of Slovenia, if we compare it with Western Europe. But of course, amendments, once again, I take opportunities and opportunities. If I was ugly or cynical, as I had previously seen, he said, "a chance" for a correctional exam, no, I will not say so, I will say, an opportunity and an opportunity to resolve in the given circumstances a matter that was obviously proposed by the Government at a time when some things were not you, so, no coalition or opposition knew, so this is an opportunity and an opportunity to eliminate it within three or six months. Go alone, no interpretations. No problem, though, we're going to put some topic you don't want to talk about on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u107	Of course, very briefly, because he was an eyewitness to the procedure. However, I would say that if anything, but then this law fulfils the conditions for a reduced procedure, that is, less difficult amendments and amendments to the law and are actually less difficult. In some countries, in most countries this would not come to Parliament at all, but the Government would have the right to regulate the resources as it wishes. I have to reject this observation already, because it was so directly mediated. Another thing that is. I, my fellow Members, am sure that if it were not possible to use this term, because we will not talk about the Golobic, if it were not for your worst or favorite enemy, whatever you think, today there would also be agreement among you that the information society, the Information Society Directorate and the Electronic Communications Directorate should be brought together, separate this Directorate from management of ownership shares in operators in which the state still has important property and good things to carry on. This is a common experience, through the lines of the former Minister of Vision, this has also been seen very much, it has also been seen and felt. And that is why I think the reason for this rejection is mainly political. I think it's harmful. But like I said. I will reject this amendment, and I think that for the field of electronic communications, the information society is the most appropriate solution as proposed by the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished President, colleague and colleague. Today we are talking about an amendment that, as it was said here, would prevent some harmful consequences that this law would bring. I'm going to try to limit myself to these potentially harmful consequences that I don't think are there. I will not, as has already been said here, talk about the daily political situation or talk about, say, the abuse of the presidency of the parental committee for this matter in reporting and so on. I think today the whole point, from the outset, has been very perfidious in this direction, even if it is repeated so much that the purpose was not so. However, we probably also have a majority in the National Assembly, and the public has also made sure that everyone knows more about how the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of this National Assembly can operate in this mandate. Okay. On the subject of today's table, however, it has already been said in the debate, in its reasoning it has repeatedly stressed the movement of electronic communications to the Ministry of Higher Education. And it is rarely said that it is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. I don't know why the debaters silenced this part of the truth. Why didn't they say so? Why did they lie about what kind of ministry this is? Do these debaters always lie? Do they have anything to believe? Has this always been the case and always will be? I believe not. I believe that many of the debaters have also told the truth. Mr. Peten has said one thing that I agree with. In fact, he said: “The instigation of purposes is not in place. Sneaking purposes is out of the question. That is why I also expect Mr Petan to step out of the SDS Group, because, given what Mr Jerovšek said on behalf of his Group of Members, he has said much about the plundering of the country, and so on. In short, he was instigating her intentions. Mr Grimes was also able to say a lot about this. And now I don't know if it's a mirror image here, whether it's a self-concealing or where this pre-announcement is supposed to mean what some law is supposed to mean and what its consequences really are. I think that here, on the expert side, it has been repeatedly highlighted why the merger of the two Directorates is good, and it is essential that this is also referred to by the European Union, that we have been lagging behind in this area of legislation in the past period. That is why I am also convinced that it is precisely because the regulation so far has been as it has been, that the damage that will change with the current amendment of the law has been done. I'll give you two cases. One example is precisely this monopolistic role of Telekom, where the country in one role is the one that prescribes the rules of the game to say so and on the other hand the owner. For this reason, we also paid more expensive internet services and so on. The other thing, which is also the result, I think, of insufficient legislation in this area, is the current expansion of optical cables, broadband Internet, of course, mainly through urban settlements. Perhaps even because of some political perception that something can be done in urban settlements, it is not better to do so elsewhere. But it is also true that there is something worthwhile in urban settlements, and other areas are not worth it, and this has already been discussed here. This is why electronic communications would also be subject to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, so that, of course, the countryside could be equipped with this, because there will be no financial interest. What am I talking about? I'm talking about digging public roads, public good. The city’s municipalities were all faced with a great financial interest in digging these roads, and the current law on electronic communications, of course, allowed them to do so without any major complications. What do we face in Slovenian cities? We're meeting up with dredged roads. Here one public interest in public roads went against another public interest, the issue of broadband. Things weren't arranged, and here's where the biggest profit was for the investor. For [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u110	Mr. Rozej [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u111	The Moroccan archdiocese, if I say so, with money from the Drava Power Plants. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u112	Mr. Rozej, we'll bury the cables.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u113	I'll be back. In short, here I think it will go with the adoption of this law just to prevent such and such damage. Each of us can have, like Mr Petan, a variety of associations in the game if someone calls him mail, and says the mailbox. Even if someone calls me Luke Koper, I have my own association. I have an association with the 20,000 euro annual meeting for the Bezjak Supervisor, and I have an association with Luke Koper's million-dollar debt, the false discharge of the director and so on. This is probably the case, and the Slovenian steel industry, and I remember the Russian buyer, the Minister of Vision, the New Ljubljana Bank loan, the Russian investment, the New Ljubljana Bank loan and again the damage to social property. But associations are probably not what we should base our decisions on. Here I hope that in the end, when we vote, we can really focus on what is going to happen in the case of this law, that it is in the short term good that it will be "functioning" as soon as possible, that the amendments that have been tabled are not in place for the Government to organise its work so that it can work more effectively. And that's why it's going down in this case. That's why I'm going to support the marriage, as I suggested. An amendment, proposed, but not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you. I conclude the application running on the amendment to Article 11. [[...]] A general debate would be concluded. Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u115	Mr President! As you have already said in the introduction, we will conclude the general debate in the manner that Mr Rožej concluded. So let me say a few sentences in a broader context. That is, Mr Rojej has now said many things that are not at all bound by this amendment. I can tell you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u116	I warned him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u117	It is so that we will be in the Slovenian Democratic Party this amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u118	And I'll warn you if you don't talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u119	also supported. [[...]] But I'd like to say the following. Here I have a document of one prominent expert who is very well acquainted with telecommunications and also APEK, and he wrote down the following: "More clearly, the work of the agency so far and in the future was much more interdisciplinary than the coverage of the area of individual ministries precisely because of the above-mentioned fact and the large stakes of the Ministry of Higher Education under the supervision of electronic communications and mail and its ownership in companies that have previously carried out millions of businesses from the ITK sector, especially state-owned ones, I cannot shake my doubts that it is only the supervision of the Ministry of the Sector and the filtration of their forces into state-owned enterprises. Such involvement by the Ministry in the ownership structures of companies in the ITK sector and the desire to control this cannot in any way guarantee the neutrality and independence of the Agency, as they are excluded in themselves because of the conflict of interest. This was written by one of the eminent experts who is very well acquainted with these things. What does that mean? The aim of the Ministry of Higher Education is very clear. It is indeed Mr Golobič who has very, very serious problems in this area. And he's the last one to allow this law to transfer telecommunications to higher education, to his ministry. I am convinced that what has been written here, that this is a key objective of this ministry in particular when it comes to control and I think that also very clearly those who know the APEC know what its task is, this agency, and this is about issuing frequency permits and so on. So the Ministry of Higher Education wants to become the other Berlusconi, they want to take control of the media space in every way, and that's what worries us. We will never support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Rozej, the replica? The replica would have been used earlier for allowing you to speak. What do you want? I don't know. He warned you about what I warned you about, so I can't give you a replica. Mr. Tinker Bell, please. Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u122	If you get up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u123	I would ask you if in the future, when the debaters quote experts, you might remind them to mention the expert we are going to know the rest of us who will hear this, to decide what credible opinion this is about. Because we all know that someone in the profession is really an expert, someone who's just coworkers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u124	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u125	However, it is not necessarily an expert from the parliamentary group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u126	I agree with that. Thank you. Mr. Tinker Bell, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard several criticisms at the expense of some of my colleagues in the parliamentary group, if we do not follow the Rules of Procedure in the debates at this point. And most of the colleagues are mostly mags. Visjak discussed this matter and everyone else, warned, in accordance with the amendments on the agenda and discussed, that it was the intention of the amendments, that the ruling coalition should give some thought, for a time, to consider whether this move was inappropriate or harmful. Unfortunately, on the other hand, I have listened attentively to some of the other debaters, especially the ruling coalition, but I have not heard some of the impressions that the debate has passed over what we are supposed to be talking about today, and it is probably right that in the National Assembly no matter how formal an amendment is written, we are talking about the content of the law, the content of the law, what is good, what is bad. In his debate, the President of the National Assembly, who spoke about the content, also attached to this thought. Formally, as I would have expressed myself, the Rules of Procedure were severely violated by the Parliamentary of the State, and when I listened to it, I had one opinion to ask for the President of the National Assembly, who would warn the President of the National Assembly that he was in violation of the Rules of Procedure. However, I do not think that it is possible to take the matter so narrowly and it would not be good for us to take it so narrowly. Not because of him, because of you, Mr President, but because of all of us who are discussing and working in the National Assembly. He suggested that in the future, in the context of discussions and in the context of the time available to individual parliamentary groups, we actually adhere to the Rules of Procedure, but in such a way that we stick to it all equally. For this reason, I think it is wrong for individual Members to remind themselves when, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they explain their views and, on the other hand, there is no one to remind, in this particular case, the President of the National Assembly, who spoke entirely about the content. I do not object to what he has said, because I think he has said quite a few of the benefits of things that can also be discussed in the context of the explanation of these amendments, which I will also do once I have some time left for the Group of Members to do. In short, my procedural proposal is that we act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but the spirit of the Rules of Procedure is not to limit the debate of individual Members within the time available to them within the time frame of the Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u128	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u129	So why this timeline or why the proposal for this time shift? The proposal because what you're proposing is inappropriate. This law, you can't justify these changes. You cannot justify it because something is being transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education without one argument. This area within the Ministry of Economy, which is now run by Minister Lahovnik, works well. It works fine. There used to be talk about optics. At the time of the Ministry of Magi. The visionary process has been initiated and is now continuing in Mr Lachovnik's ministry. I'm afraid they'll stop under the new minister. Second. After Friday, after the resignation that should have taken place, you put telecommunications, electronic communications in the hands of the person who owns the postal mailboxes, co-owner of the postal mailboxes in the Netherlands, that is, keenly interested in the fact that he also has control of this area as a policy. Not only is it unhygienic and untransparent. That's scandalous. It's a scandal. This is the crime that is taking place here today in front of the entire Slovenian public. And you, when you confirm this today, hold not only one hand in this jacket, hold both hands in this jacket and assist these "robots". There is nothing left of the New Zares policy except your President's mailboxes in the Netherlands or your President's mailboxes or your President's mailboxes in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u130	Mrs. Orzmova, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I've already said that today the Rules of Procedure are being violated, and I did not exempt anyone. I was just saying that we're violating it, that we're working on it, and that's why Mr. Chernač took the lead, and for the first three minutes, he was talking about how, in fact, some spirit of the Rules of Procedure should be creatively adapted in order to be able to say something else. And I think that at the end of the last minute, when he had the opportunity and time to debate within his parliamentary group, he made a completely inappropriate and unfair attack, which I think is significantly worse than my word on the balinian move. And if I can afford it now, I think it was this, and I will allow myself, Mr Cernač, at least I can say, a very bacional and yet rude matter, when you accuse both Minister Golobič and the client Really, and I think you have gone through all kinds of things. But that's what we're used to, that's gonna be a lot of things, it's gonna be accused here and there. I don't know, there's going to be something else to say about mail collectors, and I have it at home, and that's why. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u132	A procedural proposal would you like to ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u133	I repeat the procedural proposal that we should, and again I say, today, at the beginning of this point, we should agree that the Rules of Procedure do not apply at this point and that we are all joyfully violating it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u135	I believe, dear colleague Orzmov, the truth hurts. However, I would ask that you, Mr President, remind your colleague publicly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because she abused the Rules of Procedure and spoke only about everything else about what was given to her in the context of this opportunity you gave her, not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u136	What the lady said, I also reminded her and asked her to make a procedural proposal, and you did not say anything in this procedural proposal. Here you go, please. What do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Only a proposal would be made in relation to the procedure, the following. [[....]] If my fellow Member allows himself to make allegations about the crime that is taking place here, let's say in my presence, then I expect him to press charges without delay or be quiet and you should call him as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. A respected choir! I am trying very hard to, in fact, fully abide by the Rules of Procedure and not take my word for it. I only come forward and only when I want to replicate, that is to say, to protect the integrity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose representative I am here today, in the face of truly eclectic inaccuracies, which I am obliged to dement. And, Mr Chernač, you said that the Government has proposed the transfer of these two disputed areas, or the transfer of the disputed area from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology without any arguments. I submit that the longest and most reasoned explanation in this bill and that the Government unanimously, without a vote against it, followed the arguments presented by the representative of the Ministry of Higher Education and also for the economy because they had nothing to say. Finally, on the committee that addressed this content, the representative of the Economic Chamber also supported and pleaded that the integration of these two areas was essential and could only be useful and beneficial. So much in the denial that the Government has not explained this proposal for a transfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u140	Mr. Friend, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u141	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u142	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I would like to call on the first of the same, so that you do not allow such debates, so that we do not listen to initiatives and procedural proposals, so that we do not respect the Rules of Procedure today. That's a little too much for this National Assembly, I think. However, as for the colleagues who are discussing this point, I would say that it is perfectly normal that there can be a causal link to this topic and someone may have an "ultra" interest to do so without saying anything else. So it's quite fitting that we talk about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. There's not much time left. We had just heard a discussion by someone who mentioned five of my fellow Members with a name and a smooth spit, but nothing happened. I should have called back then, but I'm still gonna use this time to say the following. It is right to mention people who are in this hall when possible, but not to do what we do. Otherwise, the point is that, according to the system currently proposed, the rules of the game should therefore be laid down by one minister. But at the same time, this same minister will also set up, or at least indirectly, as the proposer, both the leadership and the supervisory board. That's what someone said before, just like putting a cat in mouse protection. That's bullshit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u147	Just a replica, an explanation of the inaccuracies. On the basis of this law, the Minister will not be able to do so, as I repeat to the company, Post and Telekom, which, of course, have administrations and supervisory authorities, remain under the responsibility of the Minister for the Economy, so nothing changes, only an explanation of inaccuracies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 11, and I am putting an amendment to Article 12. In doing so, I remind you, if we are to debate this article, that it is only a matter of replacing the word relationship at the latest "in three months" with the word "after three months". Would anyone like to discuss this? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Just an explanation with the same arguments that the date as proposed is not set - We do not support this amendment, the arguments are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence proposal for amendment of the Payment System Act in the public sector - urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. It's like you're hearing procedurally. There were too many of them, but they're happening to me. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable, Your Honor. We propose a bill amending the Public Sector Wages Act, which is before you under urgent procedure, because we want to move the last third of the abolition of wage imbalances for officials from 1 July 2009 to 1 December 2009. This move is needed not only because of the worrying public financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia, because of the current economic crisis, but also because of the deadline of 1 December 2010, at the same time the deadline set by the collective contract for the public sector as the extreme date for the elimination of wage imbalances, i.e. the fourth or last quarter of all civil servants. We want to respect the principle of equality, both public servants and officials, in relation to the implementation and implementation of the wage system set out in the Public Sector Wages Act and agreed by the public sector collective agreement. The implementation of the pay system is due to different arrangements within different deadlines, so the directors have in fact ended this year if they had not moved the pay gap, too. Similarly, if this proposed amendment were not supported, the salary imbalance would be definitively eliminated for officials. Other public servants in the public sector, and because the agreement was reached no later than two years later, it would not be possible to eliminate the wage imbalances. Officials and directors, if the Government did not act, would be privileged. Since we want the actual consequences of the financial crisis to be distributed in a uniform and fair manner, we propose a change of dynamics for officials. This government had to, as a result of the implementation of the new wage system, immediately following the launch of the mandate and the announcement by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development that wage growth in the public sector, due to the implementation of the new wage system concluded under the former government under completely different macroeconomic relations, would mean wage growth in the public sector in 2009, i.e. in the crisis year, by almost 10% of the points. For the measures we have actually achieved, by reducing the salaries of officials by 4%, by eliminating the imbalance dynamics at the end date of 2010, with an agreement with public servants in the public sector that salaries will not be coordinated this year to avoid the third elimination of wage imbalances agreed for the month of September 2009 in order to cancel the payment of regular performance, the work of the resources to increase the amount of work to be paid to last year's amount. So in 2009, we already created € 103 million in savings from wage policy. This bill, which has the same ambition - to create less pressure on public cash registers before you. I suggest you support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u153	The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this law at its 13th urgent session. 6. 2009 The procedure is an emergency procedure. This is how the College of the President of the National Assembly of 5. 6. 2009 On the Committee, we had a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the State Council committee on the response of the Ministry of Public Administration to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Council of Justice. As regards the opinion of the Council of Justice, the Council of Justice did not object, but it pointed out that the constitutional provision concerning the salaries of the judiciary was still unfulfilled. As regards the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this opinion was that a transitional and final provision should also be amended. Otherwise, the objectives of the law presented by the Minister are in line with what she has just said. Members of the Committee discussed the amendment to Article 1 following the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, but we also discussed the need to amend the transitional and final provision. In fact, in so far as the law in the Official Journal has been published in the course of the continuation process, there would be any delay in its publication after 1. Seven. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, 2009, problems could arise. The debate, however, was constructive. All Members, both coalition and opposition, have been united in supporting this law, because the law does, however, provide for Members, Judges, Ministers, State Secretaries and other Secretaries and other officials about 3.5 million euros in savings since 1. Seven. 2009 until the entry into force of 1. 12. 2010 We have adopted the amendment to Article 1 by agreeing that the coalition will reconsider whether an amendment to the transitional and final provision is also needed. If that's what the coalition said, it's fine. However, we have both adopted the text of the bill in its entirety and this text is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! The bill follows the principles of equal treatment between officials and public servants regarding the dynamics of the elimination of wage imbalances and is also supported in the context of the present financial crisis in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We are aware that the public sector must be in solidarity with the economy. And as measures have been taken for public servants, it is clear that they must also be for officials. With the proposed delay in the elimination of the last third of salary imbalances for officials from 1 July 2009 to 1 December 2010, the reduction in budgetary expenditure will be €3.5 million, which is, of course, welcome. This is one of the necessary measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We must recognise that we expect to finally implement those measures or laws that are of crucial importance to our economy. I'm talking about the law on the guarantee scheme and stuff. Above all, we are also awaiting the promised third package of anti-crisis measures, which are yet to be detected. Everything, I have a feeling he's still on the promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Greetings to the Minister, co-workers and all of you, colleagues and colleagues. We support the Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. For it is the last time for officials and officials to be equal. Above all, that the Government, which is also an important counter-crisis measure, as we have just heard indications that it will also address some poor legacy from some past times, because the legacy at the time of the adoption of this mandate was, of course, catastrophic in this area. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will always, in accordance with our conviction, support solutions that go in the direction of respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and in this case this is the case, so it is our support. Now, as long as we want to cope with the serious economic situation facing all of us in our society with as few negative consequences as possible, we must, of course, build our future on sound foundations and this is one of the important principles, including the principle of equality. One important foundation is also the appropriate and rapid functioning of the public sector. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing so today by amending the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, and in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will never give up our support for such projects, which are also going in the next steps into the well-being of citizens and citizens. The public sector is people, people who also deserve adequate recognition, pay and reward for their work. However, when the system does not work properly, there is a constructive structure in place. We believe in the rule of law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Such a state is based on knowledge. Knowledge, however, is a relatively rare good that deserves proper evaluation, and I am confident that the change of law in this area will also make a modest contribution. However, it is one of the basic principles of the party and the club, which I belong to, that we appreciate and respect knowledge and work, and that is why the Law amending the Law on the System of Public Wages will be unitedly supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, the co-workers, Members and fellow Members. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a bill on the public sector's wage system, because it is actually one that is a small change. We estimate that this amendment should be accepted as it has already been adopted by representative public sector unions in the form of an annex to the public sector collective agreement and thus has also shown understanding of the current time in this way. The Regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector has also been amended, which also changes the time of final harmonisation of wage imbalances, and this must certainly also be done for all those public servants and officials not covered by prior harmonisation. However, it is important to stress that this is not about abolishing some of the rights given by the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, but it is only time-consuming to 2010 when this system is to be fully revived and thus ensuring the principle of equality for all those covered by the wage system under the Public Sector Wages Act. Like I said. The Group of Social Democrats will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u161	Respectable. Even on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, everyone has a very nice greeting. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the proposed law, because we believe that it is only fair that all the rules of the game are the same, even, and especially when it comes to the issue of wages. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to a number of very important things. The first is the question of non-professionality and ignorance. This can even be shown graphically in the case of this law. Look, this is the whole text of this law, two poor short articles. Two densely typed pages of legal comments were prepared only for these two articles by the Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. One really wonders what this government is doing, and it is certainly no longer surprising that once 7.5% of economic growth has turned into a negative 8.5%, a catastrophic decline. In doing so, we would like to stress the following in particular. In fact, this law constitutes restraint, self-restraint when it comes to officials, but this law would really have a positive effect if it were accompanied by other legislation that would have a stimulating effect on the Slovenian economy, but unfortunately it is not and is not from anywhere. As a result, all these measures remain halfway and this law will therefore not be as effective as it should be. Because in addition to this restrictive wage, we would also need to revive the next growth momentum, which obviously, due to the incompetence and ignorance of this government, unfortunately, is not able to prepare and wait for them for months and months to come, while, as we have seen just a few minutes ago, there are also regrets in the National Assembly, the current rulings are still engaged in the division of electoral spoils, while using citizens and citizens only as "moll-cows", as they are called domestically referred to, with high excise duties, and it is necessary to know that these things are also indirectly burdened by the Slovenian economy. For this reason, it is therefore important to note very seriously from this welcome, correct and honest law that everything else is missing - that urgent, stimulating, positive for the Slovenian economy, which would only allow such measures to come to life to the full. In view of the fact that some have so far warned or tried to blame the current catastrophic decline on the very government that has achieved 7.5% economic growth. And this is said by those who have unfortunately achieved a minus of 8.5% decline, a catastrophic decline in Slovenia in just a few months, and I feel that they are spoken of in the Scriptures, because the Bible says: "Happy are the poor in the spirit of what the kingdom of heaven is for." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Grims, you probably know very well that the presentation of the positions of the Group is not intended for controversy, but I did not interrupt you because it is a shame to interrupt you, because we would still continue with unacceptable content. Mr Franci Kek will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Unlike the predecessor, I'm going to limit myself to the point we're at. Nor will I greet "the praiseworthy Jesus" or conclude with any Scriptural thought. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the current situation in which we are in need of amendments to the Law on the System of Public Wages, which takes account of the principle of equal treatment of civil servants and officials in the dynamics of eliminating imbalances. As a result, officials would also be subject to the deadline laid down in the public sector collective agreement for the last third of the abolition of wage imbalances. The main solution to the proposed law is thus to shift the salaries of officials from 1 July 2009 to 1 December 2010. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is also on 11. 6. At its urgent meeting, 2009 unanimously adopted the proposed amendments to the law. Amendments to the law are starting to apply on 1 July 2009, and even if the law was published after that date, there is really no reason for the issue of retroactivity in the Group of Members, since in our opinion it is a matter of protecting the public benefit. As a result of this change, savings would be made on the public funds earmarked for the salaries of officials, which is the aim of the proposed law. In the Group of Members, we will truly support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u165	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! The position of the DeSUS Group on amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The DeSUS Group will support the proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The proposal is short, but not insignificant, as it is a delay in the elimination of the last third of salary imbalances for officials. The basic law lays down the date of 1 July 2009 and replaces the proposal with the date of 1 December 2010. This time dynamic of the elimination of payment imbalances already applies to public servants. At the beginning of the year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed an annex to the collective agreement with representative trade unions, which takes into account the date now proposed for officials, i.e. 1 December 2010, which also represents the deadline for the elimination of wage imbalances. However, with the proposed amendment of the law, the position of civil servants in the elimination of wage imbalances is equivalent to that of officials. Such a solution, we certainly support the equalisation of DeSUS Members, as it is also written in the direction of public financial savings. Members of the DeSUS support the proposed solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The position of the Member of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u167	Respectable. The reason for the proposed amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act is to further save the country and to take account of the principle of equal treatment of public servants and officials, which is why it is proposed to move the last third of the wage imbalances for officials from 1 July 2009 to 1 December 2010. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we do not support wage reduction measures, as we believe that decent income is necessary to encourage the population to consume, but we support equal treatment of officials and public servants in all areas. Therefore, we also need to share fate with other civil servants as regards the dynamics of the abolition of payment imbalances. As a result of the financial crisis and economic recession, last year the Government also decided to act in the area of public sector salaries for officials and also for public servants. In December 2008, it adopted amendments and additions to the Director's Salaries Regulation in the public sector, with which it retained the planned alignment of the basic salaries of directors in the public sector in 2009. In February 2009, it signed an annex to the public sector collective agreement with representative public sector unions in order not to implement the provision on the abolition of the third quarter of the abolition of wage imbalances by public officials in 2009. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken the following measures, namely a 4% reduction in salaries for officials, the retention of the planned alignment of the Director's basic salaries in the public sector, the non-implementation of the overall harmonisation of salaries in July 2009, the payment of the 2008 rescheduling, the suspension of the payment of regular work, the restrictions on the payment of the increased amount of work, and the shift of a third quarter of the abolition of remuneration disproportionate for public servants from 1. 9. 2009 to 1. 1. 2010 In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that the Government should cut down on other austerity measures, such as the income of people employed in the public sector. Nevertheless, we support the proposed amendment because of the solidarity of us officials with public officials, who have already been delayed by the Government's date of abolition of payment imbalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there are no amendments to the amended law, I am concluding a second reading of the law. The decision will be made in accordance with the agenda half an hour after the end of this period. This concludes this agenda item. We'll resume the session at 2.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u169	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the meeting of the assembly. It is time to continue the 2nd cut-off item of the agenda - The draft law on postal services. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to the 74th Article of the Act. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 74 of the Law has been adopted. Since the amendment was adopted in the second reading, but less than please? [[...]] Mrs Breda Pecan wanted to inform me that she had voted wrong. The vote has been taken and the decision has been taken. That's why we're continuing the session. Since amendments, or one amendment, were adopted in the second reading, which is less than a dozen articles of the amended bill, I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On behalf of the Minister of Economy, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third reading of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Minister Krebs. I am therefore putting to the vote a proposal to decide that the third consideration of the bill will take place at this meeting. There were 59 votes in favour, 58 in favour and none in favour. Who's in? [[58 members.]] Who's against it? [[Nobody.]] The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 19 June 2009, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants by the beginning of the third reading of the draft law. With this finding, I interrupt this item on the agenda. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration - short procedure. We continue with the second reading and by deciding on the two amendments to this law. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting. Did you raise your hand? I'm sorry. Mr. Gorenak. I really didn't see your hand. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I can say that we have actually tabled this amendment for several reasons. The first reason is that we wanted with this amendment, by which we change or regulate in a different way the deadline for the implementation of this law, to give the coalition in some way, especially the coalition, the possibility that, given the changed circumstances that took place at the time of the adoption of the law in the Government and also after the consideration of the law on the home labour body in connection with the publicly-known events around the Minister of Higher Education, the possibility and the opportunity to think in some way and that in some way, it does not regulate things in the way she imagined. First time. So that the law can eventually be refused. Secondly, that it can reconsider and amend the law in the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology in the period of amended and otherwise defined deadlines. In fact, the decision, which is unusual, is unnatural, is probably known by someone in Africa, Asia, and no one in Europe, and is adapted, despite the explanations we have heard, exclusively to Mr Golobic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u173	Mr Gorenak explained the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone want to explain their voice in their personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 33. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12 of the Act. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u174	Mr. Vice President, the voting device didn't work for me. Please, if you'll check. In my opinion, I could not vote and I would like to define myself and vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u175	Let the representative see if your light's on fire. Because you did not warn me during the vote, I cannot repeat myself. But we can look ahead, just see for yourself, if possible, if it burns [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u176	Now I'm [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Because I pressed the card three times and it didn't work. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u177	I believe it was only during the vote that there was no warning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u178	I was right before you did anything, I said. If it is possible to repeat the vote, I would ask you to do so if this is not too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u179	Mr Pukšič, the vote cannot be repeated because the provisions on this point are explicitly clear in the Rules of Procedure. But if you want to check for a new vote, that's what we can do. No, no, no. Good. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The parliamentary group will not support the law, despite the fact that the law brings some good solutions, some solutions that are completely normal. Our government has changed this law, too, and we would not have fundamentally opposed it. However, this law contains a provision transferring mail, telecommunications and this whole segment - of course we understand what an economic operator means to transfer only part of this area to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that the coalition introduces a unique solution that no one in Europe knows. This was also found by the coalition members. But the fact that you are enduring this, coalition MPs, at a time when it is very clear that you are sharing the electoral booty and that you are actually reaping what many of you have gained with lies in the elections - with lies that I can justify - means that you serve one of your party's presidents [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u181	Mr. Gorenak, explain your voice, don't argue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u182	I'm not arguing with anyone, but I'm explaining why we're going to vote against it. Please calm the coalition MPs or stop my time because I can't tell. So, within ten months or eight months of the election, when it is very clear that we should save the economy, jobs and all those on the road, you enforce the law, which means the direct influence of one of the leaders of coalition parties, Mr Golobič, on this most important segment. The public and the journalists, whom I am on a personal level, I must say, positively surprised this time, have very clearly pointed out in the past week the work of Mr Golobic before and after the elections, revealed all his mailboxes such as Shrot; the difference is only that this mailbox is slightly smaller, otherwise it is entirely the same in content. So if this law is to be supported by coalition Members - but it shows that it will be given - I will, of course, have to say very clearly that those who steal and those who hold the frogs are the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you very much Mr. Gorenak, you have abused the right to explain your voice. You were talking about issues that were not directly related to the law, and you were questioning the opinions of other parties, but I didn't want to interrupt you, because you wouldn't be willing to admit wrong conduct anyway. Anybody else want some? Please, Mr. Jelinčich. Just one moment. I am opening the time for the application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. One Slovenian children's song says, "He lies, steals, has fleas, cheats". I think it should be changed, "Be wrong, he's wrong, he thinks well, but he made a mistake." And I think it's right for us to adopt such a law. I don't understand Mr Gorenak hitting so hard against this law, which, however, is good, wonderful. It is true that they have made a little mistake and will correct a little bit, and the mistakes will starve - but, it is okay, let it be! Some people need help. Mr. Gorenak, we need to give telecommunications to someone who can work with them. I think, although only Denmark has such a case that this ministry has for development, but let's do one more such move forward into one such open society, into one such democratic society that will understand these things and who will be able to implement these things in such a way that some will benefit from it. Why should a poor Slovenian nation have laws written for it?Oh, my God! I don't think that's right. Let's do as the coalition suggests. Let's support them. Let us do them a favor and give them what they want all the time, for then they will be happy and, as it turns out, will be a happy nation. I think it would make sense to bring this matter to this point, to open the way for them to adopt the law, to put telecommunications where it is needed, so that some will know how to deal with it. Because if they don't know, they're wrong. And if they made a mistake, it's just an excuse, for once. We have heard this several times from the point of view of the state's highest representatives - that it is dismissed. Let's be Christian, Mr. Gorenak, let's give them what they want! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude from the content of the debate that you will support the law, but you have not said that and tell us how your parliamentary group will vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, we're always in the wrong, and because we're wrong and we're going to make a mistake, we're not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Ms Zalokar Orazem also asked me to give one more time to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. The flower of Zalokar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry I pushed the wrong button. I am pleased that the Government has such an excessive atmosphere and that we are listening to such truly swindling thoughts from fellow Members in their explanations, which speak very little about the law, only about how everything else is. I must say that in the Group of Members we will really support the law because we believe it is right to listen to all the concerns that point to the fact that the separation of the two Directorates is not good and that the Directorates should be merged here within one ministry. The government has decided that this Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology - on science and technology - will today, in the name of the Ministry, be consciously silent, following those many warnings from the economy that many of you are talking about today. Here I have a message from the Chamber of Commerce that absolutely proposes to reorganise in this area, to support the roundings of the two Directorates, because in the past there have been many things uncoordinated, also warnings from Europe have been coming and this will mean more circular and competent leadership. I think it is right for us to leave to the Government, as has been the case so far, the question of where this ministry is based and where these things should be carried out. However, I must also say that I hope that colleagues understand electronic communications and information technology more than postal mailboxes, because when it has been levelled and insinuated that it is the exact same content, there is a strong lack of knowledge of the contents and purposes of the mailboxes and also of what such mailboxes are intended for. And this is about the big, huge, enormous differences between those collectors that your president was talking about and some of the collectors you're insinuating, because it's no big deal if any company in Slovenia also has a business abroad. So I think it's an extremely big ignorance, and I hope you're better at knowing the area that we're talking so little about today, and these are electronic communications and computer science.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, no one wants to say another word? Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Here you go, time to sign up for an explanation of vote in your own name. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u190	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The debate between Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party made it clear that we will never support this law. I don't intend to support him myself for more than one reason. Firstly, I think this law is written on the skin of Zares, and it is to the Minister for Higher Education, Mr Golobic. I'm sure that's what this law will do to this party. I do not believe, I do not understand and I think it is unreasonable that Members of the SD, LDS and DeSUS overlook this crucial fact. It is quite clear that Mr Golobič and really wants to take absolute control of the media space in the Republic of Slovenia. That's a fact! Whoever knows how APEK works and works, the agency that controls and issues, as I have already said, decisions on radio and television frequencies, who knows these matters, is clear to him what this is about. And, dear colleagues, it seems unreasonable and irresponsible to me that SD and all the other parties can be stamped like that! Such inadmissible stories that are damaging to the complete Slovenian political space, democracy in this country! And allow yourself to be brought around and acquired into the hands of a complex media space. That's unacceptable! This is harmful, naturally harmful to the development of democracy in Slovenia. Therefore, absolutely no such law as a Member of the National Assembly would ever be adopted, confirmed and not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm not going to marry and I can't support it. I have already listed a number of concerns in the debate today, and now another one has become weary. In fact, as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I am monitoring this area, which falls under "Transport, telecommunications, energy", i.e. transport, telecommunications, energy. So, this is a matter for Minister Vlacic and Lakhovnik. And now, if it passes under Minister Golobic, he and apparently the Minister of Denmark will be one purchase, and the second one from all 25 ministers from the transport "Telecommunication Energy and will be like lobbying as a nice company that will deal with it sooner, later, then, yesterday, today, tomorrow will be like lost in space. And they won't be able to lobby or lobby among their own. In this area, funds are being shared; billions of euros are for broadband. Ministers are from this area, from all 25 countries. Denmark seems to have already found itself in this group - it does not need to be because Denmark is the most covered with broadband. And our minister will come among strangers. At the same time, he will have to share in part what he was elected to do or for what he was appointed to do, that is, for higher education. And it's in this light that I don't see any chance of supporting this marriage. In addition, I find it difficult to imagine that university professors, university experts, would understand or go to the field and see where the broadband internet is missing, where there is something wrong with telecommunications and so on. That's why I won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I would like to see arguments predominate in this debate. I'm sorry, but obviously it wasn't heard, because whoever wants understands who doesn't, can't, and the Members also said in explanation of their voices, "I don't understand," even though they said on the other hand, "it's clear, we all know, it's a fact," and so on. In short, apparently some arguments are created without any professional grounds, but with one emotional charge. In short, the European Union has already said on its own that it is that we have two different Directorates that run this area inadequately, so that we are lagging behind in different areas of work. You probably mentioned Denmark because it's so arranged, and in the end, you mentioned it as well as technologically advanced. Slovenia, for example, has been correcting its technological backlog in the area of broadband by dividing 12 mayors from 45 million euros for this purpose in the past period. 11 I think it would be good to do more order in this area. Therefore, it would be good to hold this debate on the basis of arguments, not on the basis of what the media say, because with the media, it is, as you know, that before the elections, they expressly fill our mailboxes and after the elections they leave us with - what? The mailbox! Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. I'm not the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I must say, this is my most difficult explanation for the vote since October 15th. Here I would like to thank, in particular, my Group of Members, which has since the beginning been open, understanding and respectful to a different opinion and has actually proved to be a social democratic test. The law, which is in procedure, is generally a good law. However, in my opinion, there is a significant disadvantage: the proposed transfer is, on the one hand, relevant in terms of the argument of the merger of information social and electronic communications, but it is true that this transfer can also be made in a different way, that these sectors can be transferred to different ministries; in short, this is, in my opinion, the worst of possible alternatives. At the same time, I must admit that the substantive arguments on which I have relied are also followed by doubts, doubts about the actual potential conflict of interest of the minister, which I support, which I have been doing well so far and will continue to support. And that's why I feel so much more responsible, I actually look at what he's doing under the magnifying glass. I think that, however, there is a potential conflict of interest, someone who owns an important company in this area will at the same time regulate the award of tenders and, at the same time, the regulatory part. And that's not good. For this reason, after careful consideration, I decided not to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Well, I'm not going to support the marriage because it's going to have harmful consequences. He's unprofessional, and he's tuned to one person, and that's the worst. This is one of the measures, not all of them, but a set of measures taken by this government, which resulted in a 9% drop in gross domestic product according to last quarter, because some are the result of certain desires, some greed, and some adjustment to a specific person and is one of the measures that has also generated 100,000 unemployed. Virtually all young people coming out of school are on the road and therefore I cannot believe it, I cannot trust it, and I cannot hope that this measure would be any better and that it would "capture" as it is said to "capture" because even those who are more serious and possibly more justified do not accept this moment. Europe is practically unaware of such a case. Denmark is somewhere close, but what does that Hamlet saying? Something rotten in the country of Denmark that I will not now consider Slovenia to be something rotten here. This is a conflict of interest, and that is why I cannot support this law. I would also like to answer at the same time and give my opinion because the position expressed in this Chamber was a while ago that the old minister did not know what the APEK was doing. I'd say the old minister knew. But I certainly hope to say that he knew his field very well, the real area of the economy. This has been shown only now because the government has only produced a negative 9% drop in GDP in its work over half a year to the previous plus 7% increase. It is said that the minister must have been very familiar with his field and probably also knew what the APEC was doing. I won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I won't support this marriage either. Today, there has already been a talk that the Council of the EU has different formations of ministers. One of the formations is also the so-called TTS world, so my colleague has already mentioned this, "Transport, telecommunications and energy". We like to follow the EU many times. Here in this case, unfortunately, we do not follow this thinking. Most countries have this issue resolved in such a way that, as was the case in our country, there are so-called ministries of infrastructure - transport, telecommunications and energy as well. In this case, however, it is a terrible case of conflict of interest. And after everything that's been going on lately, it would be wise not to just shove your head through the wall and not make this mistake and move this area to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Vice President! I won't support the marriage alone. It doesn't bother me how within the government a government organizes the operation of certain areas. As has been said here several times today, I myself have ever been tested as a coalition Member if I did not agree with a particular matter. And later I made up my mind and never in my life have I felt sorry for it. As far as this marriage is concerned, I'd say so. Given where this is being carried, it is really a huge conflict of interest, but it is not so important that it is such a conflict of interest. It is more important that citizens and citizens of this country suffer as a result. Once again, a few million euros will be diverted across very strange paths, because this conflict of interest is too much. And given how credible this minister can still be, given what he has already said, not least when he answered my question, he did not speak the truth, which was later proved to him, but unfortunately he still hasn't apologized for it, of course it is so much worse and so much more damage. Remember, the largest place of our social property was when the National Assembly changed the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. So this is where the fan opened and now [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let him take as many as he can and as many as he can. [[...]] And that's why today we have a couple of individual villains in this country who are pig-rich and a nation suffering.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I, although Mr Vinko Gorenak is the last person on this list, not because of him, but because of all of us, please - we are talking as little as possible about things that are not related to the law. Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I'm gonna stick to this recommendation because I think you're right in some way. However, the following must be said in this regard. This transfer to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology was in the morning - that is, I will not support the law myself, this at the start to remember - accompanied by the words, "as far as this Slovenian countryside will have it" and so on, "wideband internet" and everything else. I am seriously afraid because of such a rural, Cosy environment, that there will probably have to be another government, probably on this side, not that it will actually happen. But if we go to marriage and my basic reason why I can't support this marriage, it's really what's most important about this marriage. Look, the system we're introducing, so when we're transferring the telecommunications and mail to Mr. Golobic, what have we done with it? First of all, we gave regulation - to him, we gave invitations for many millions - to him, we gave control over all of this - to him. If we think that X - percent is the owner of a telecommunications company, of course, then the obvious thing is what time it is. It must also be clear that there may be abuse here, and I am not saying that there will be, but I say that there is too much danger of abuse. But according to history, there is a high probability that this will happen. I will be very happy to take a look at this vote after this vote if at least a part of the coalition learns and rejects the law. But if he's not here, I'll be happy. After all, you're [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in a coalition or in a coalition with a vote for this law you will in some way do one round - a car with three wheels usually does not work. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not informed me that the amendments or amendments have not been adopted, the law would not be harmonised, so we are moving to a vote. Please, we're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 37 in favour, 26 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM LAW IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR, Urgent Procedures. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. There were 67 votes in favour and 66 against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[1 versus.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Wages, Convention of the International Organization of Acts No. 95. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported to the National Assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Alexander Ravnikar has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you, Vice President. Dear participants in the session! We have a short bill before us, namely the proposal for a law ratifying the Convention on the Protection of Wages. Some symbolism about this law, which has only four articles. Today is 60 years and 80 days, which was the meeting of the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva and began to address this text. So almost exactly 60 years. It was then adopted on 1 July and has been in force since 1952. This Convention is important to us because it is one of the conventions of particular interest in the International Labour Organization. This Convention on the Protection of Wages could not be adopted in our country for some time because we did not have a set-up as to how in the case of forced settlement and bankruptcy. We now have requests from workers secured by ratification, which took place in 2001, when Slovenia ratified Convention No. 173 of this International Labour Organisation, which guarantees the claims of privileged creditors, is the claim of workers in the event of insolvency of its employer. And because this was one of the important reasons that, before this Convention on the Protection of Wages was ratified, these reasons have now fallen away, and I would like to say that, at the 60-year-old age of its adoption, our National Assembly, too, is proposing the position of our parliamentary group to adopt the law on ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, 62 of them were in favour, against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Point of the agenda - on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of Protocol No. 14 bis of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be explained by Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u208	Your Honor! The European Court of Human Rights, like most courts in the Member States of the Council of Europe, is facing growing backlogs. There's 100,000 things on hold right now. As early as May 2004, Protocol 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights was adopted, the main objective of which was to ensure greater efficiency of the European Court of Justice. It is intended to allow for faster and easier filtering of unacceptable cases, for the admissibility of cases and for the reduction of recurring cases. In order for this Protocol 14 to enter into force, it should be ratified by all the Member States of the Council of Europe, that is all 47 countries, but so far it has been ratified by all countries other than the Russian Federation and cannot be enforced. That is why the countries decided on 12 May this year, on the date of Slovenia's assumption of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, to adopt an agreement or statement on the provisional application of the parts of Protocol 14 which they referred to as Protocol No 14 of the BIS. In fact, there are two procedures under Protocol 14, which are expected to have the most and most rapid impact on the reduction of the European Court of Human Rights' arrears. This is the establishment of an institution of a judge of an individual and the extension of the powers of the committee of three judges. It is also a matter of introducing the rapporteur's role as assistance to the individual judge. The enforcement of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights is introduced as an important criterion, which will play an important role in the case of recurrent cases. For 2008, it was found that these recurring cases represented as much as 70% of all cases before the European Court of Human Rights. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the ratification of this Protocol and stress that this is a very important instrument that will make the European Court of Justice more effective and more effective in enforcing the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. It is a temporary measure, however, because we hope that the Russian Federation will ratify Protocol 14 as soon as possible and will not continue to prevent its entry into force. Sooner or later, the implementation of the basic protocol number 14 remains one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency and also our special responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats of Slovenia, Branko Marinič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. The Act amending and supplementing the Act ratifying the United Nations Convention against Corruption will be confirmed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It follows from the explanation that a State Party to the Convention must ensure, under Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Convention and in accordance with the fundamental principles of its legal system, that the authorities or bodies which prevent corruption by implementing measures must ensure the necessary independence in order to carry out their tasks effectively and without undue influence. The State Party shall also provide such bodies or bodies with the necessary material resources and specialised personnel, as well as the training that staff need to be able to carry out their tasks. In the Slovenian space, there is a special law that defines and specifies the content and work of the Commission, which, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Act, performs its tasks as it does. As regards, however, the United Nations Convention against Corruption, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are committed to carrying out this task in the field of the Republic of Slovenia, as already required by the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Therefore, as we say, we will also confirm this in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u212	Nice hello to you all! The United Nations Convention against Corruption in Article 6 provides that each State Party to the Convention shall, in accordance with the fundamental principles of its legal arrangements, ensure the existence of an authority or the necessary authorities to prevent corruption by implementing the preventive anti-corruption guidelines and procedures referred to in Article 5 of the Convention and, where appropriate, monitor and coordinate the implementation of those guidelines and to fulfil and disseminate knowledge of the prevention of corruption. In the Group of Members, we really stand up for an independent and independent body working in the field of anti-corruption. We therefore welcome the Government's decision that, pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 3, of the Convention, as a body responsible for the implementation of preventive anti-corruption tasks, the Commission will be designated to prevent corruption. Let us recall that the previous government or coalition waited almost an entire mandate before sending the convention to the National Assembly for ratification! In our view, the main reason for hesitation was that the Convention requires States parties to provide an independent body or persons specialised in the fight against corruption. These requirements were met only by the existing anti-corruption commission. But since then's Minister of Public Administration, Gregor Virant, as one of the goals of the abolition of the so-called Kosovo Commission, was followed by others. Through the law on ratification, they tried to establish a special, other body that was supposed to enforce the Convention, which was both legal and substantively unacceptable. At that time, in the Group of Members, we really proposed the establishment of a government authority to prevent corruption, which was proposed, strongly opposed. The functioning of such a government body has already been condemned for failure, in our belief that it could not act independently and independently. We have therefore prepared a supplement to the proposal for the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption in the Parliamentary Group, by which we have abolished the proposed government provisions on the establishment of a new government anti-corruption body, which is the power to prevent corruption. This is why they later decided that these tasks would be carried out by the Supreme State Prosecutor of Slovenia, Barbara Brezigar and the Ministry of Justice. The ratification act was therefore adopted without mentioning that independent body. Therefore, in view of the fact that the instrument of ratification of an international treaty also contains declarations under an international treaty communicated by a State Party to the depositary, the existing law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption should be amended. The Commission's responsibility to prevent corruption for the implementation of the Convention is, in its entirety, the only logical and genuine solution for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be explained by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. This bill is in fact unconstitutional. It is unconstitutional because the Constitutional Court is still saying that this matter and this bill should be considered in terms of compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision not to say anything wrong, 57/06-28. Indeed, we still have the Anti-Corruption Act, which was defined from the point of view of the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional in certain parts. This was not arranged by the National Assembly, and now we ask ourselves whether what the Constitutional Court said or what the National Assembly said applies. Of course, I agree that the National Assembly is the Constitutional Court, but it would be reasonable to take this into account in all the debates and in all aspects, because the fact is that the National Assembly is the one that sets out the laws that it forms and which it adopts. The Constitutional Court shall have only the right of an interpreter and a consignor to consider a certain amendment, so that this amendment may, of course, be accepted in the National Assembly or not. The point is, we have double standards here in the National Assembly. When these criteria are the governing coalitions by year, then we will accept them when they are not by year, we will obstruct them, we will not accept them, we will reject them with disgust, as is the case in some cases. So I think it would be useful to think a little bit more about this. Finally, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service also speaks of this, and it may sometimes make sense to think about it and then adopt different conclusions. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party and my belief is that the National Assembly is the Constitutional Court. Why am I talking about conviction? Because our beliefs are more valid than legal provisions and are more valid than the constitution. It's written in the Constitution, and yet you all refer when you're sick of the Constitutional Court saying that and that. I say it again when you're sick. When you're out of your mind, speak differently. In this case, you speak differently. That is why we, in the parliamentary group, will not support this law for one simple reason: because we do not support the duality and transfer of certain political parties who are willing to react and vote once and be "yes", and in another case "against". I think it would make sense that perhaps it is on the basis of this law that some debate begins, what the National Assembly is all about, what its competences and interferences are and, after all, why we sometimes have to listen to the Constitutional Court, which often takes counter-national decisions; decisions which are contrary to the interests of the Slovenian State and Slovenian citizens. On the other hand, it is easy to accept something that is only for the benefit of certain political options. One more time. We won't support it in our client. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Position of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors No. I'm sorry. There will be no more representation of positions. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 65 votes in favour and 59 votes against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. It's a day-to-day thing, man-to-day love stuff. The assembly under this item considered the proposal for a candidate list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal by the Ombudsman for the appointment of the Deputy Ombudsman by means of a motion for a decision, the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Land and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal for decisions on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the two Boards of Inquiry and the proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Candidate List of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for Members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 20, paragraph 4, and Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Courts by letter dated 26 May 2009, the President of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly a candidate list for members of the Council with a proposal to elect five members of the 10 candidates proposed. The candidates proposed are: Prof. Dr. Miro Cerar, Prof. Dr. Anton Jerovšek, doc. Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat, Prof. Dr. Vesna Kranjc, Prof. Dr. Vesna Rijavec, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Simič, Andrej Škrk, Prof. Dr. Katarina Zajc, Roman Završek and Barica Zidar. The proposals were considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. There are no candidates for the debate, so we are moving on to the vote on the Proposal for a Candidate List of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts provides that the proposed number of candidates should be greater than the number of candidates elected, but not more than twice as many as the number elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts of Election, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairpersons and the four Members and Members elected by the National Assembly. The groups have already submitted proposals for members of the committee to chair the vote. These are Alexander Ravnikar - Social Democrats, Robert Horvat - Slovenian Democratic Party, Franci Kek - Really, Franci Bogovic - Slovenian People's Party. I, too, will be a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevel, Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 54 Members and 54 Members present, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the elected commission is in the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. The vote is put to five candidates and therefore the vote, which will contain more than five figures before the proposed candidates' name, will be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled vote shall also be invalid, as well as a vote from which the Member's will is not clear. However, if there are five or less numbers on the ballot, but the will of the Member's elector for all the surrounding numbers is not clear, such a voice shall also be considered valid, but only in the part where the Member's will is visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, those five candidates will be elected, for which the majority of Members will vote, who will deliver the votes in force and will be the largest number of votes. If no majority is required in the first vote of five candidates, a second vote shall be taken, which shall vote on as many candidates as is still necessary. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who have obtained the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 15.55 and will last until 16.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue the meeting at 4.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u216	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 June 2009. 68 ballots were distributed, 68 votes were cast, no votes invalid, 68 votes valid. Individual candidates received the following number of votes: Prof. Dr. Miro Cerar 54, Prof. Dr. Anton Jerovšek 26, doc. Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat 48, Prof. Dr. Vesna Kranjc 9, Prof. Dr. Vesna Rijavec 20, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Simič 2, Andrej Škrk 42, Prof. Dr. Katarina Zajc 36, Roman Završek 13 and Barica Zidar 42. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the following members of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia were elected by the majority: Prof. Dr. Miro Cerar, doc. Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat, Andrej Škrk, Barica Zidar, Prof. Katarina Zajc. All five members of the Council of Justice were elected. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to congratulate the newly elected members of the Council and wish for a successful and responsible work. At the same time, I thank all members of the Council of Justice for their work so far, which will expire at the end of this month. This concludes the 21st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the Ombudsman's proposal to appoint a Deputy Ombudsman with a proposal for a decision. The Ombudsman submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Ivan Shelih as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of 6 years. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Dr Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, to explain the application. Here you go, Madam Guardian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u217	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am before you today in my role as proposer for my deputy, i.e. the Deputy Ombudsman. This is Mr Ivan Shelih, a university-graduate lawyer who has been employed by the Ombudsman for 14 years, almost from the start of this institution. The explanation of the proposal has already been given, so allow me only a small supplement concerning the candidate's work. Thanks to him, the Slovenian ombudsman became internationally known for his positive practice in the implementation of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture. With his accuracy, prudence and dedication to his work, he convinced many of his colleagues about the appropriateness of our Slovenian model, thereby raising the reputation and respect of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sure he must be a very suitable candidate for my replacement at a time when I'm gone and in matters for which he's become a specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly and to submit a proposal for a decision. Following the transfer of the positions of the Parliamentary Assembly, Eva Irgl shall have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the well-respected guardian! We therefore have before us the proposal of the Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, to confirm the National Assembly another appointment of Deputy Ombudsman, this time Mr Ivan Shelih. Mr Shelih has been employed by the Ombudsman since 1995, where he was first counsel for judicial and police proceedings and all forms of personal freedom, and from 2007 onwards he is also the Head of Justice and Optional Protocol. In the letter to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are monitoring the work of the Ombudsman and her deputies, and I must stress here that the Ombudsman's office unfortunately does not meet our expectations in some segments. Given that the Ombudsman's powers are divided into specific areas within which each of the deputies is responsible for their own, it is incomprehensible that many times the Ombudsman or her deputies are quite selective not to say politically depending on the content, whether at some point or not, they are either attending meetings of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities or other events relating to the subject of human rights. This is also confirmed by individuals turning to our parliamentary group. The fact is that the Office of the Ombudsman is the institution on which people rely increasingly, but unfortunately too often do not come across sufficient understanding for their problems. Among other things, the Ombudsman’s mission is to defend an individual, a small man, one who may never go down to fight for his rights with more powerful ones than himself. It should be noted that an individual does not have a bicycle behind him either by so-called non-governmental organisations or by the media that would alert him to his distress, such as that guaranteed by the so-called erased or perhaps Roma. It is therefore understandable to expect greater understanding from those institutions that are concerned with the protection of human rights. Being an advocate of the weaker one is certainly a difficult task that requires such a person, who has a predominant sense of fellow humans. One who is immune to any interest and does not give up under different political pressures. We will vote on Mr Shelih in our conscience in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We have completed our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Ivan Shelih as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly appointed Ivan Shelih as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask him to take an oath before the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u221	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good conduct.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u222	I congratulate the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I congratulate the Deputy Ombudsman on his election and wish him a successful job. [[...]] We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, nice afternoon greetings! The Fund of Slovenian Agricultural Lands and Forests is, of course, an important institution in Slovenia, which certainly also needs adequate supervision. I think that we have chosen the right people on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, who will be able to take a step forward in the business and management of the Fund. It is not a matter for a person who performs this function in particular, but also for knowing that the Fund was set up in 1993 with specific objectives and purposes and that the situation has changed considerably to date, until 2009, in many ways. In particular, the task of the Supervisory Board should be to monitor the legality of the Fund’s work, supervise the Fund’s financial operations, inform the Fund’s Council and, once a year, the National Assembly. I must say that a number of questions have recently been raised that do not confirm what has been enshrined in the founding law that the fund will be the best master of state forests. He has certainly done some of his role in the past in the process of denationalisation and in the return of property, and today his task in this area is practically exhausted because it has remained there for the completion of some two to three percent of the outstanding cases. Above all, experience and field reports show that not all records are exposed, that the Fund is not everywhere and always the best host and manager of state forests and land. Of course, if we look at what Slovenia has been able to build on the best agricultural areas in the last fifteen, twenty years, then we can ask with justification and concern, because in many of these buildings, or in some way change in status, the Fund has been involved in some way or another, or we have led a right, transparent policy, especially if the supervisors have done their job. Slovenians today have only 800 square meters of working surfaces per inhabitant. For normal survival during times of crisis or when serious logistical and transport problems occur, such surfaces need to be around 2,000 square metres per capita. The average for Europe is 2,400 square metres. This is certainly one of the Fund's important tasks, even more supervisors, to direct and guide agricultural policy, that what we might have called progress years ago, when we were in the fields where we used to produce the most potatoes, vegetables, when trade centres are being enriched today, it certainly was not progress and development that we have used the best agricultural areas to be hopelessly. I'm sure that wasn't the best decision either. Certainly, however, the story that we gave to the Committee on Agriculture in the initial first debate, which will surely be followed up, is the working title that was summarized by the media, the tycoonisation of Slovenian forests. One eighth of Slovenian forests, over 225,000 hectares, are managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and are definitely underexploited and purchased from these forests. At a time of tightening sales, acute economic conditions may involve various exemptions, reflections, adjustments, and there is definitely something wrong with this system at the principal level, including with further policy on what happens to these wood varieties: they end up in neighbouring countries, mostly Austria, Italy, where they can draw added value. There's still a few fights left for the Slovenians. There is a bit of a ransom fighting, because we get between €5 and €6 for about a cubic of wood cut from state forests. Many experts point out that the price can be twice, three times, the most optimistic, even four times higher. Of course, it remains the Slovenians of this wood, if I am a little cynical, very large: mainly destroyed roads for transporting wood abroad. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will support and keep a close eye on the work of the Supervisors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Robert Hrvat has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The fact is that in Slovenia it is necessary to complete the initial strategy for the development of Slovenian agricultural development and to amend existing legislation in certain areas, which will also formally provide appropriate legislative solutions to regulate the situation in the field of agriculture. It is also true that, during the last term of the current Supervisory Committee, a number of things have changed for the better, especially compared to previous mandates. The focus was on reducing unoccupied agricultural land owned by the Fund. Income from concession activities has also been substantially raised during this period. There has been a reorganisation of the Fund and also from a financial point of view, the Fund has acted well. What exactly are the Fund's tasks? That's what my predecessor was talking about, but it's only right to say it again. So it controls the legality of the Fund's work, supervises financial operations, the Fund's familiar council, and once a year reports to the National Assembly. Since, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the work was properly done and, in general, the Fund records significantly better results than in the past, we would expect that what happened on the Mandate-Election Commission, which in fact all the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals were arrogantly rejected without justification. This in itself may not have generated any special attention if the case was isolated. But unfortunately, he's not lonely. The current coalition replaces people in a number of bodies, funds, supervisory councils, as well as obviously the main objective of replacing everything that was appointed during the previous government. Instead of facing the challenges posed by the economic crisis and finding successful answers to them. I'm afraid that's not the case either. With the current government and coalition, it is only pure political renaissance. Where are the public promises and words of the Prime Minister who spoke before and immediately after the elections? Where are the actions that would indicate his words and promises that political recruitment will not be so different from now on, that it will be completely different and much better? Have these words and actions been lost in the wind, caused by lies and then excused for these lies, if they were only mistakes? It is more than obvious that the current government and the ruling coalition have abused people's trust, or that you thought that people were so forgetful that they would not remember the kind words of the Prime Minister of the Government that there would be no political and human replacements, that there would be no political change in the supervisory councils, that people would be named by the criteria of profession and not by political colour. We have been set on completely different facts and actions from promises since the beginning of the current government coalition. I have a feeling that the more the economic crisis in the country deepens, the more powerful it is and the more rapid it is the exchange of supervisory councils, funds and other bodies. We will not support the proposed candidates in the Slovenian Democratic Party for all of the above reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia Srečko Chater, mag. Golden Jenko, mag. Maja Kotar, Franz Mužič and Branko Tomažič. We're voting. Excuse me, is there any explanation for the vote on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not vote in favour of the proposal for a simple reason because I consider that coverage across Slovenia is not good. But I don't think the proposed candidates are bad candidates. The area I come from is, I think, the largest area, if we look square miles, the working land, that's Pomurje. I also had a quality proposal and this quality proposal was not supported. It tells me that I can't vote for such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 22. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decree to resolve a member of Dr. Tomaž Kalin and to be named member of Jasmin Kukavica. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions responsible for the preparation and implementation of the count. “exploded” in 2003 and 2009, due to the suspicion that the published results were tailored to the political needs of certain public function holders; to determine the political responsibility for inadequate enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision No. U-I-246/02-28 (Ur. RS, No. 135/03) between the beginning of 2003 and October 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008 onwards, the consequences of which are also the creation of obvious inequalities before the law and the threat to the public finances system and the investigation of suspicion of clientism or corruption by certain state officials and the investigation of suspected abuse of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia for political purposes between the beginning of 2003 and October 2004 and the period from 22 November 2004. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The appointment of members, alternates, presidents and vice-presidents of the National Assembly to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions responsible for the preparation and execution of the count deleted in 2003 and 2009, in view of the suspicion that the results officially published were tailored to the political needs of certain holders of public functions, thus the establishment of this Commission is more than necessary in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. The Aliens Act has its foundation in the Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Surprisingly, on the basis of the same database, the same Ministry of the Interior counted a significant difference in the number of persons who were, in fact, later published as deleted persons. The difference is over 7,000. If we consider the latest events that line up and are known to us in general, 8 / 8 6. In the media of public information, 2009 we could see that the investigating judge of the Maribor District Court against four suspected bribes for issuing false documents, which would allow more foreigners to obtain permanent residence status and even Slovenian citizenship, then this number of 7 000, which is hidden in the difference of the above, is completely normal. It is an organized criminal association, which in some ways served very well also with the help of the employees of the Ministry of the Interior, by falsifying various documents that have served both to obtain citizenship and other social transfers, which are so-called "affected", in narration, were established in the Republic of Slovenia. The criminal investigation confirmed the suspicion that there was a group of people who, with the motive of obtaining a wealth benefit, unlawfully enabled a large number of persons, particularly from the former Yugoslavia, and also some EU citizens to obtain a residence permit or foreign status. Many of them later applied for citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, citizenship is not something that Slovenia will certainly give to someone, and it is not from God's day of goodness. And yet we act like it's something we can give everyone. Even this is written down that if a person does not have a foreign nationality, it cannot be taken away from Slovenia, irrespective of its hateful activity. Very bad for us, Slovenians, in the future, if we don't fix this marriage. I think that one who is not worthy of having Slovenian citizenship should be deprived of it, even if he acted contrary to the interests of Slovenes and Slovenians at the time of independence. Today's the day of the lawsuit. We already have a number of compensation claims that revolve around astronomical figures, hundreds of thousands of euros in compensation. And it is likely that these deleted ones will again demand universally for this prepared form of compensation to be applied to the courts. And it is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that in the National Assembly we have also amended the law on legal tariffs, which allows lawyers to make their own fees and determine for themselves the price of the success of their work. If this is true - and it is, all that I have counted so far because these are facts - then it is more than necessary for us to set up this commission. That this Commission also undertakes a review of existing allocated citizenship and that we call on the responsibility of one of the officials. I believe that the Minister of the Interior will not be able to do what this Commission will find out. However, it is essential that this commission meet as soon as possible and begin its work. Tomorrow this may be a huge burden for the state budget, as we have heard at the time of the interpolation that the figures to be paid as compensation are going to reach billions of euros. Billions of euros! And these billions will burden the Slovenian taxpayer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Jože Tanko has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. This commission of inquiry will deal with a politically sensitive topic, with so-called deleted ones, whose number suddenly increased shortly after the visit of Member Zares in Belgrade last December. During the night, their numbers rose from 18,000 to nearly 26 thousand, without satisfying explanation. In order for such a thing to happen, it was possible to understand from the record on the Serbian authorities’ websites. Of course, with such a large change in the number of so - called deleted ones, the question arises how this could have happened or what had changed, that the original number 18.305 had changed. It should also be noted that this number is 18.305 as well as several times in a decision of the Constitutional Court. Who, then, has politically decided that a decade known and a thousand times the number used is no longer real?Oh, my God! Who has politically decided that the methodology of counting should be changed, and who has decided which methodology is the right one?Oh, my God! An already lower number in so-called deleted would have a significant financial impact due to a political decision on how to determine the eligibility of the status of so-called deleted major financial consequences. 40% more beneficiaries will be caused by a relatively higher number of beneficiaries. The constitutional law to determine the eligibility of the status of so-called deleted and consequently to remedy possible injustices was a logical and acceptable solution offered by the Slovenian Democratic Party, illogical rejection. Although the Minister, the Government and the Coalition claimed that the compensation would not be paid, the courts established extremely high compensations and put the claims of all of them on the lie. And that's a very expensive lie. And this lie is not the first or the last one produced by this coalition. A few days ago, the other president of the coalition was lying, and that was also a matter of social and non-critical political coverage by the coalition. We are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party not only that it can, but that it must rule differently. The establishment of this commission of inquiry has also been accompanied by complications. First, on a proposal from one of the coalition members, the coalition moved the agenda items from April to May, thus also causing the commission of inquiry to be ordered almost a month later. Later on, however, there were difficulties in the investigative commission's staff composition as the coalition was not prepared to adopt, in our opinion, the correct proposal of the Slovenian National Party for the management of this commission, although the Rules of Procedure in a special Article 6 and a special paragraph provide that such an investigative committee shall lead one of the signatories to the request. Unfortunately, the coalition stopped it. The proposal, which has finally emerged after many complications, will be supported and we expect the Commission, despite the challenges and complications expected, to draw up a final report and also to confirm the suspicion of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. It would make sense, however, that the coalition, following decisions issued or decisions by which the courts determined enormously high damages to the so-called deleted persons, would merely conceivably re-evaluate the situation and propose a more appropriate approach in determining or also in regulating the status of the so-called deleted. We believe that in sending the decisions now sent by the Ministry of the Interior, it is necessary to check the eligibility to grant a decision and to grant a status that clearly brings very large financial benefits, including to those who have already emigrated before Slovenia's independence, not only to the southern countries, but even to Western Europe and elsewhere, but now to obtain the status and entitlement to the one-stop shop. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Anton Anderlich has the word. [[He doesn't want to.]] The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I believe that we will have the opportunity to talk about the issue of deleted because the opposition parties, particularly the Democrats, are trying to take every opportunity to talk as much as possible about things that are not accurate. This is my debate, Mr Gorenak, and in the debate I can speak, even if it does not "successful".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u234	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u235	The Commission of Inquiry should be set up as it provides for a law on parliamentary investigation. Otherwise, I personally do not think that the tasks assigned to it would be necessary. However, since the Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides for a so-called minority investigation on the basis of an adequate number of Members and Members' requests, it will be established today. I would like the Commission of Inquiry to be able to find out the facts and finally to deny all the unrealistic claims that are emerging today that enormous compensations have been incurred, which is a purely non-reality. In the first stage, compensation was awarded in one case, in other cases not yet. These cases are under appeal. Before the final decision is made, it's likely to take a few more months, I believe even a few more years. The claims that this will cost the country an enormous amount are also inaccurate and want only to create the wrong picture. The claims that the ruling coalition is prepared to pay compensation are incorrect. The ruling coalition has made it clear when preparing the implementation of decision 8 of the Constitutional Court that, if necessary, we will also adopt a law that will flat-rate compensation or limit the amount of compensation, as this is possible in accordance with the content of the Constitution. At the same time, we have said that it is not possible to adopt a provision that you are proposing that, in no case, even if the actual damage caused by a public official is not possible to compensate for the deleted. So there's a lot of questions. I would like this commission to finish its work as soon as possible, although I have no illusion that later on, when it is done, you will not find new reasons to claim the facts or to find that the findings of the Commission are not correct. So let the commission be set up. We haven't stalled for a day, but you didn't know how to propose candidates for members and for the chairman of the commission. There's really no way to blame the coalition. Let's set it up, let it work, let it be successful, let it end as soon as possible, and we will see how many untruths have been said on your part regarding this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u236	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Madam President, I think we have so far had a rule following the Rules of Procedure that it is not lawful or permissible to dispute the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u238	No, because the debate is a debate between Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u239	Polynomization. That is why I must protest here most strongly against such a way of leading, because you did not warn the debater about this and he has said a number of non-truths about what we said in the position of the Group of Members. The fact is that the number of deleted persons has increased following a visit by the representative of the Zares party in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u240	Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please. Mr. Tanko, now you're going through. You started procedurally, you correctly stated, and I told you, stay on procedural matters, not substantive. You're not registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u241	I have an argument to make. And you don't allow an argument. That's actually true. What Mr Ptræ has pointed out to those who say that we are not telling the truth is not true. After this visit, there was a record on the Serbian authorities' websites that the number was wrong and will change. Second, that there will be no compensation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u242	Mr. Tanko, I have to interrupt. That's a second warning now. Now you have a substantive answer to this question. When you stop, I will explain to you that this is a debate between Members and Members so that those who have applied can debate - you are not, and so you have decided not to debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u243	Mr President, before I make a procedural proposal, I would like to make an argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u244	That's not an argument, that's a controversy with the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u245	No, the point was that we didn't say the right arguments, that we were telling the truth. And I'm saying what we said and based on what. And then I'll make a procedural proposal at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u246	It's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u247	Of course it is! And that there would be no compensation, the Minister of the Interior spoke at the time of the interpretation and lied because the Court of Justice had awarded the compensation. That was a big lie in this area. However, the fact that they were complicated that the proposal was not properly tabled is the interpretation of the coalition, again. The interpretation of the coalition, what's right and what's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u248	It's just a thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u249	And I suggest, Mr President, that you hold this meeting so that you do not allow yourself to be embroiled with the views of the Group of Members. We have stated the position of the Group of Members, and the politicisation of positions is not permissible. At least it hasn't been so far. And now someone's signed up for the word just to argue with his point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u250	The presentation of the parliamentary groups has passed. Mr Srečko Friend's views were presented on behalf of the SNS and you on behalf of the SDS, followed by a debate between Members and Members. I had four panellists on this list, two of whom you do not want to discuss, one of whom has debated, and the next one will debate. The debate between Members and Members is, of course, possible controversy between Members and the positions of the groups of Members, and only those who have applied can participate. You didn't, and that's why there can't be such a debate. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My friend Miran Potch was telling the truth. That's the first conclusion. The second conclusion is that it can, with the opinion of the Group of Members in the debate that we have, not be able to explain the position of the Group of Members; otherwise, it can and has taken advantage of it. When I said that he was telling the truth, I'm going to say once again that there is no legal compensation, not yet. And so the Minister of the Interior did not lie about the interpretation, as you usually like to say. What's that? [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u252	Peace in the hall! Mr. Ziherl, please don't answer!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u253	What's up with the distraction? Let's just leave it to the judge. We have spoken the truth over and over in this House, but I will not judge your performances as simply and generally as you do with ours. The Commission of Inquiry, which we are also formally setting up today by appointing the President, the Vice-President, members and members of this Commission, will therefore be established today. The delay in setting up is due to the fact that the proposals for the President and the Vice-President were not consistent, i.e. correctly submitted with the Rules of Procedure at a time when they could actually do so. At the same meeting, when the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission called on the proposers to do so, and you did so, we also confirmed the composition of the Commission: both the President and the Vice-President. We wanted to join the Social Democrats Group when you proposed this commission of inquiry in order to slightly extend the scope of the Commission's work, both on time and by content. They were not deleted in the previous term, not in this mandate, but in a story that has been going on for some time. And it would be good to see the political responsibility of the function holders to identify from the beginning, that is, where there is actually a problem that we are facing today. And that would be the right approach. I'm sorry you rejected our suggestions. They weren't acceptable to you. You just want a certain scale and a certain amount of time to investigate. We know and we know the reasons why this is actually being done. What was said earlier was that we were the ones who delayed and prevented the establishment of this commission, not true, not true. When the proposals were correct in business, we, too, on the Mandate-Election Commission, voted on your proposals, i.e. those which you have chosen and which you believe will be able to do this work. And we will participate in this commission of inquiry. We, too, have proposed a member and a member, who is a substitute member of this committee, and we want to participate constructively in this. I hope that we will soon also get the results of the work of this Commission and that, on the basis of these results, we will be able to assess, more objectively than we have done in recent times, the so-called so-called, as you say, deleted and all the events associated with them. Unfortunately, we won't go far enough into the past because you weren't prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? On behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti and Dr Vinko Gorenak. First of all, Mr Wingo Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, the fact that it's not deleted. The so-called deleted ones were created by people who want to build their political capital on them, their electoral votes and who are willing to subordinate the interests of their own country to all others who want to serve and seek credit at the expense of the state of Slovenia and its taxpayers. It is important to be aware that at the beginning of our independence, some 200,000 people of the non-Slovenian nationality have regulated their status because they were aware that such legislation must be taken into account honestly and respect the laws, taxes and all other obligations of a given country. A small group of speculators, to a large extent criminals, abused it. That they were criminals, it turned out recently, when a large group of gentlemen from public services were also discovered in Maribor, selling documentation to ensure that these so-called deleted were granted citizenship. There were even killers among them. Very nice and, gentlemen noble, write it on your soul. It must also be said that it is not true or that Mr Potrč was wrong when he said that the courts have not yet ruled in favour of the so-called deleted. I will read what the District Court ruled in Maribor with the signature of Mark Čegran, the judge of course. Decision: "The legal basis of the claimant Bute Krasniqi is given against the defendant of the Republic of Slovenia for the payment of compensation." This means that all the doors are open, all the resources and as if they understood "want the nations". Of course, Mr. Krivic will help them with that. I must say that Mr Krivic stood in front of my house below and hunted those who went to the administrative unit and hand-pressed certain papers to sign them. I'm not getting into this. It's the task of others. As I will not go into the rumor that it is said that this judge has received 10,000 euros to judge, as he has judged. And I'm not going to go into that either, because these are rumors that are going around Maribor. We can trust them, we can't trust them. In view of what is happening in the Ljubljana District Court, as we see from the media [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u256	Mr. Jelinčič [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u257	I believe them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u258	The explanation of vote refers to the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President and the members [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u259	Of course, Mr President, despite trying to prevent me from speaking, I will support this decision and support the establishment of this Commission. [[...]] Unfortunately it's too late and unfortunately we won't be able to. [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Now I'm warning you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u261	I didn't cross over to Jelinčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u262	I said Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm still good at hearing you listen. [[...]] That's okay. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support this conclusion in the parliamentary group, because it is also normally right and perfectly natural for this phenomenon to be investigated. In fact, natural laws say one thing, and here in Slovenia there are obviously some things that are working against natural laws. However, in 2003, to remind me, the government of Mr Tonet Rope, 18,305, came alone to the interior ministry with Mr Matei, the number has not changed. In 2009, the figure changed to 25 or 26 thousand, in short, by a few thousand. But the laws of nature would say that someone died. It means that there should be fewer of them, so it is perfectly natural, perfectly normal that this phenomenon, this strange phenomenon, which is not a natural phenomenon, is also explored. Perhaps we would need another scientist to explore this in a group headed by Mr Horvath. Otherwise, there are some answers in the time I have left. Of course, it is normal for us to explore this period. After all, in 2000 or 1992, the number of so - called deleted was increasing, but during this period, and so we are investigating this period. It's this period for me, so it's perfectly normal. Of course, there is another matter to be said. On April 1st, we listened to another type of data, type of things, and two great statements in this hall. Firstly, the issue of decisions is not related to compensation. Secondly, the issue of decisions is not related, so there will be no possibility of compensation because the case is obsolete. The competent minister claimed that, on the date of the issue of the Constitutional Court decision, the limitation deadlines had begun to run and, therefore, more or less, everything had expired in five years. The decision issued in Maribor, quoted by Jelinčič, states otherwise. The expiry date shall begin on the date of the decision and the decision shall be the basis for compensation. Whether the minister lied, I don't know, she's not here, we can't argue with her, but that's what she said. But the court said something else. And to conclude the following. The dilemma deleted, so-called deleted, left and right parties in this National Assembly, is artificially created. We are not opposed to regulating the situation of so-called deleted persons who have indeed been wronged. We support this, but with constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation. Before I give my word, I warn you once again that I will not allow controversy with the opposite views. Just an explanation of why you will vote the way you intend to vote. Vito Rozé, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. It has already been mentioned when we decide things, even the one now ahead of us, it is good to talk about facts. The fact is, at least to me, that I do not see in the proposal before me that it be proposed by the parties or by people who really have the Slovenian national interest in numbers, yes, they are fighting for it. I am not saying that by abuse of Slovenian national interest, someone wants to take advantage of it, but he has been looking for credit for a long time at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. It is also true that it goes, thank God, to a small group. Unfortunately, there are criminals and former prisoners among them. That is why I am skeptical of such a proposal and will find it difficult to identify positively with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Janja Klasinc has the word. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u267	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will abstain myself from voting on this agenda item for a simple reason. I cannot vote against it because the right to set up such a commission allows our Rules of Procedure with a sufficiently large number of votes. But I think that these debates on the deleted have already poisoned the atmosphere, not the twenty years, in the last fifteen years, in this country, that it is absolutely unnecessary to pour oil on fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that with the establishment of this commission, I have no problems and will be happy to support it. I am very pleased that those who propose do not delineate in essence anymore and acknowledge that the deleted have been wronged, that it needs to be corrected and that it needs to be fixed, and that it is necessary to determine the number of these. However, I am sure that the investigation can also determine that someone who was a minister in the previous term, who did not have any drawers put in place, or I am even establishing a claim that a number has consciously been summed up that is not known to have been true. And I look forward and impatient to these results, and I support the establishment of a commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u271	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President. I will vote in favour of setting up this commission, but I would like to touch on the issue that the coalition has dealt with with with with arrogance and I would also like to delete the MP if he is not a member of the parliamentary group. This is contrary to Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am pleased, Mr President, that on 27 May you wrote that you will communicate, carefully examine the possibility of resolving the situation and reaching agreement, this is about the participation of a non-member Member of the panel of inquiry. However, this has not been the case until today, but the coalition has gone through the wall with its head, or this great coalition is apparently threatened by a non-member of a non-member group. You have no right, unless a Member is a member of a parliamentary group, to remove it from any working body. In accordance with Article 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Member shall have the right to express his wish to the President of the National Assembly. Remember that this is how you Members of the LDS Group, and the previous coalition did not deprive you of this right. And today, the president of the government in Brdo pri Kranj talked about minorities about tolerance, tolerance, respect for diversity and so on, but you obviously don't have it. Given that I have a legal interest and in view of your explanation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will submit a constitutional assessment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u272	Thank you very much. This is not, however, an explanation of the voice in the broader context. I'd say that because you mentioned it. I regret, my dear colleague Puksic, that you did not become president of this commission of inquiry, but I regret, of course, that you were unable to be sent because no one under the parliamentary groups that could propose to the President and to the composition of this commission. Unfortunately. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u273	I will support the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry. I'll support Robbie Hroat as president. I will support Mr. Anton Anderlich as Vice President. I will support all members of all political groups for the members of this investigative commission. I agree that this commission will prove that there are no deleted persons. But that's the only way to prove they're gone. I will support everything that this commission will do to prove that it has been done and that it is an inequality before the law, that it is a threat to public finances, that it is an investigation into the suspicion of clientism and that it is an investigation into the suspicion of the abuse of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia for political purposes. I will support the establishment of this commission with great joy, as did Bogdan Barovic and as a member of the Slovenian National Party, with the conviction that once the conclusions have been reached and all the other elements of this Commission have been established, once again, as the Victory has said, it is not clear: deleted, colleagues and colleagues. They have been erased, those who have speculated have been deleted, those who link financial and other transactions with some who solicit and support. The only ones who have been erased, colleagues and colleagues, are Slovenians, poor Slovenians, for whom you care little. I will support this committee's conclusion, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] your comments can be written in your newspapers and your media on the right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has the floor or explanation for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u275	Dear Mr. President. I'll make a motion for a decision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u276	Please be quiet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u277	the Commission on deleted support for a number of reasons. [[...]] I'm only going to give three key reasons why. The first reason, I am convinced, is that it is absolutely necessary to prevent one of the biggest rabbinicities of the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people. This must be prevented. Secondly, we have and have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party a bill to give pensioners the supplement they still need. And I'm sure only a few compensations would be enough to pay these pensioners this allowance. We didn't do it. The coalition voted against it. Thirdly, we have almost 90,000 unemployed in Slovenia, and we allow ourselves here to talk about the compensations and decisions that have been presented here today! The fact is, there will be damages. Let's give money away from these compensations so that our Slovenians and Slovenians have jobs, have jobs, have a chance to survive. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am sure we will never be able to get compensation at the expense of those who are not employed. Never! One more thing that seems very important to me, and I must stress it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we never objected if there were indeed injustices to correct these injustices. We never objected. That is why we have tabled and proposed a constitutional law that will solve this problem individually, not as you are now trying. Your key goal, respected colleagues in the coalition, is only one: to win votes, to buy votes at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, please re-apply. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. We certainly support the establishment of a commission, in the hope that things will be cleared up, because the area is very sensitive. Today, I have seen some basic thoughts from my colleagues and colleagues' discussions. In other words, there was talk of atmospheric poisoning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u280	Comrade Ziherl, there is no controversy and no comment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u281	I explain why I am going to vote in favour because my colleagues and colleagues have reminded me why this committee is needed because I want to clear up myself. This is a sensitive area of international relations between the people of the former Yugoslav State in the territory of Slovenia. Contamination of the atmosphere. Yeah, sure. Since 200 000 loyal citizens who invested 600 tolars and settled the matter feel somewhat handicapped, because they could now withdraw 50,000 euros because they would make themselves stupid, lost in space and so on. We'd be wiped out, we'd get citizenship today, and we'd get 50,000 euros. That's it! I know quite a few of them because I worked in a company where workers from all over Yugoslavia, who were loyal, conscientious workers, were loyal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u282	Comrade Ziherl, what's this got to do now? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by explaining the vote for the composition of the members of the commission!?Oh, my God! [[...]] We don't judge every potential erased whether he was good or bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u283	that will clear up [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u284	Please, come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u285	This is a very sensitive area. [[...]] Sometimes it's Article 113, and I don't know what else, it existed in the former country. There are only international relations that I hope this Commission will consolidate by its findings and findings. Because 200,000 people were only loyal to this country. My co-worker in Serbia said he would only come back to Slovenia in a tank. In the tank. And that's why I support the establishment of this commission. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The Commission was set up at the April session. Today we are discussing and adopting the composition of the members of the Commission, which I think we all agree on. And you need to explain your voice for that. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I will support the Commission's composition mainly because I want to know the truth. And I hope this committee will tell me the truth. I'll back her up because I don't know what this committee will find out in advance. I don't know if she'll find out that someone lied, that someone was a criminal, or that someone abused, abused, or faked. I don't know that. And that's the whole point of setting up an investigative commission to investigate and find out something we don't know. If we knew, we wouldn't need a commission. I also ask others who may have greater mental abilities than I do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u288	Dear colleague Yuri, there is no need to invite others. Explanation of voice. Don't talk to anyone else. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u289	You're right, President. It's just that somehow I realized that others feel better than I do, other forces and they know what I don't know. But I hope that when the commission is [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u290	Let it go. For the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u291	I hope that when the Commission is established, I too will finally receive the truths that some of the enlightened have already received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions on the suspicion that they were involved in financing the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, a holding company, d.d. and Pivovarna Laško d.d. by banks or credit institutions held primarily by the State (credit institutions within the NLB Group and NKBM d.d.), in order to abuse their political impact on the granting of loans to members of the management bodies of those companies and associated legal and natural persons (they. "slammed" companies, financial holding companies, etc.) for the purchase of a majority or a majority share of the company managed or led by them and the identification of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to allegedly inadequate or inadequate acquisition legislation allowing for the above-mentioned contested management acquisitions. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jože Tanko has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposers of the establishment of this commission of inquiry are in a paradoxical situation. At the same time as the Guarantee Scheme Act and now also the Public Finance Act systematically allowed exemptions for the granting of guarantees for the execution of management acquisitions and did not want to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party which prevented any form of such financing or reprogramming, they launched an investigative commission to investigate these acts in the past, and only for two companies which were owned by postal collectors or straw companies. But all the other companies that have started and are still doing the same thing, that's what management property is called. In any case, some major groups such as BTC, such as Mercury, should be found in this investigation. For BTC, if I recall, the program of management takeover was written by the current Minister of Economy, Dr. Lahovnik of Zares. Also missing is Ultra, who has recently reigned on the Slovenian political-economic scene of postal collectors. And when it was discovered that Minister Golobič, who also owned Ultra Sum, had publicly denied his property. In particular, responsibility or political responsibility should be identified when the media reported that the value of Ultra’s insurance for the million loans received is also ridiculous. So many millions of credits for such little insurance could not be realised without political connections and also political influences. I hope that the Commission of Inquiry will propose to supplement the decision or extend the order to set up these Commissions of Inquiry, as it would already be necessary to include at least these cases as a result of political hygiene. It is interesting, however, that in these stories, as moderators of public opinion, the same people from the same political circle or forum always respond. Most often, even the same persons feel the need to cover and cover matters politically. Those who have proposed the establishment of this commission are manipulating and bluffing. So those who have collectors or straw companies abroad and are members of Zareza should investigate those who have collectors or straw companies in Slovenia and are members of Social Democrats or Liberal Democracy. And all of these are in the same coalition that is supposed to bring new paradigms and new policies. We have heard many times that Slovenia can lead better and without sharing. But none of this is happening. Yesterday, in the response of the President of the Government to the question by his fellow Visiak, we have even heard that we have witnessed a free economic downturn in recent months. I add that not only economies, but also political ethics, hygiene and morality are also free to fall. This commission is not set up to identify the political responsibility of Golobič, Veselinović, Ropa, Bavčar, as well as Kučana and their political backs, but will try to impose political responsibility on those who were not even involved in the redistribution or, we can say, the places of Slovenia's national wealth. It is likely that the primary objective of the applicants is to grant political integrity to those who have actually acted in this transition and have profited unknowingly and who are also politically responsible, and to overwhelm those who were not involved. In this committee, we will work with ambition to help reach those who have actually guided the path and direction of transition and who have enabled such huge assets of Slovenians, Slovenia, to be concentrated in several groups of connected networks operating all under the same board. But if there is no real political will for such a thing, we will seriously consider the role of this committee. We intend not only to give the appearance of legitimacy but also to help us get to the real holders of public functions who are involved in the financing of controversial management acquisitions in companies through their public and covert activities. But not just at Laško Brewery [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u294	Tank, time's up a long time ago. Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u295	Thank you, I already have.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u296	I would like to point out once again that we have already set up the Commission and that today we are considering a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry, so I ask you to limit yourself to presenting your views on this and not to start epochal historical questions. Please. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u297	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I hope you don't take it like you did. This commission will undoubtedly have a lot of work to do. But there are also many acquisitions that we have erased from our memory, and they have been carried out in the same way and resulted in a thousand-headed crowd of unemployed. But that's probably not what our memory's about. At its 6th meeting on 25 May this year, the National Assembly decided that this Commission should be appointed. I'm happy to be able to participate in this committee. The fact is that there is a reasonable suspicion that the financing of the contested management acquisitions was also involved in today's and the then influential policies, which, through the two banks that were and are majority owned by the State, granted controversial loans for managers' acquisitions. But if you put this money on the fertile ground and Mr Bavčar wouldn't close Kolinski, you wouldn't close the druga Portorož, you wouldn't sell half of the coast, and today you wouldn't show a big hole with a deficit, you might even applaud it. We have given state money to a fertile field that has given birth to new jobs, creating new added value. None of it is. Individuals have full accounts, and that's where they'll stay. The same thing was happening at Laško Brewery. And today we're trying to service these loans. We place job losses at the burden of the country's social transfers. And those who have lost their constitutional right to work can only go along the legal path to seek their satisfaction. But we know what it's like to settle for an eternity with an empty wallet. That probably doesn't work for you to finish your case quickly. In fact, how much this has encouraged us to approach the hundreds of thousands of unemployed today, the answer can be short if we look for information in the media, how many businesses are closed daily. I think that the Commission to be set up will have to expand the list of these companies sooner or later and will not limit itself to these two cases. And I hope that the conclusion will be credible and credible and will also provide an incentive for some state prosecutor to bring these matters to justice, and that the country - this is where the state's attorney should be involved today, but not. In no case have we observed that the state's defence attorney would defend the interests of the State, and neither will any of those who are well paid for it. So I believe when the Commission finishes its work, that it will probably be a responsibility with a last name and a name; although it is now, some of you do not want to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A Member who does not see him in the Chamber has applied for the debate of Members and Members, so I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President and the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. Explanation of vote, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Tanko. Anyone else? I request applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Gospel of Luke speaks of a land of prosperity, an orderly situation, and all things beautiful. But the Gospel of Luke certainly did not have Slovenia in mind, for everything else is here. It's an increasingly visible land of theft, crime, mob gangs and the like. And if there is anything to be seen in this framework, we can also judge these economic societies that have provided themselves with strange acquisitions of fantastic revenue. Fantastic profits and divine life - not in the beyond, as the Gospel of Luke would say, but on this side. These gentlemen, whom we will now consider in this committee, are being merged into two major companies in: Istrabenzu and Pivovarni Laško. There is a lot of connection, and if prosperity and prosperity cannot be achieved with petrol and liquid gasoline, it can be achieved with beer. And I think it's high time we end this. The country is on the dog, the state does not provide basic living conditions for those who respect the laws, for those who stick to the order and for those who are willing to leave at least a small piece of bread to others. I think it is high time we set up such a commission and I am sure that this will be the first commission of this kind, but unfortunately this commission will not have the possibility of direct sanctioning these gentlemen. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u300	Dear colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u301	and that's why [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u302	Hey, buddy! [[...]] The Commission has been set up!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u303	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u304	So, just a decision on the composition of the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u305	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u306	President, Vice-Presidents, Members. [[...]] The Commission was set up to avoid any confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u307	No, it's not a delusion, it's just that the commission hasn't started working yet, Mr President. Maybe you haven't noticed yet?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u308	Because we need to make a decision to determine the membership and the President, Vice-President. That's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u309	Exactly, Mr. President. That's why I'm talking, once again - we haven't started working yet. However, I propose that we support and support all of these members that we have proposed. Sure. But you have to tell us why we're going to support them. Despite the fact that you may not be well equipped to support them or perhaps not enough to form such a commission at all. Nevertheless, we will support her. Perhaps not personally because you do not know everything, but certainly not to any of your members or former members. That one, I think it's obnoxious. And if it goes well, there'll be a penalty in Luke's Gospel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I don't think it would be right to comment, but since I addressed it, I will say that I was one of the signatories to the proposal for this committee. The word Lois Posedel, or explanation of vote, has to be understood.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the Zares Group. If it weren't for such a serious subject, I'd say in a joke that it's hard to speak for the Victory, not for the nobles, but for the saints, he's been talking so much about the Gospel today. In the Member State of the [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u312	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u313	We will truly support the composition of this commission in the Group of Members. Finally, all Members, Members and Members of our Group supported and signed for the establishment or request for the establishment of this Commission. We are also pleased that all the parliamentary groups have immediately submitted their proposals for the composition of this Commission and that I am confident that the Commission will be able to work immediately. I also strongly protest against the already stated assessments of how the Commission is supposed to create a certain picture by force and design and to blur or search for culprits only on the one hand or on the other. I am convinced that all Members and Members who have signed up for the request for establishment, and also those who have given their consent to participate in this committee, are aware of the importance of investigating, as soon as possible, these circumstances which have been conducive to these two cases, and in particular the other part which is obviously a little overlooked, which is of greater importance, namely, the assessment of legislation in this area that has made it possible. I am therefore convinced that the Commission will do well and that there is no reservation or doubt that it would not be possible at the outset to complete the list if that will be the will of the majority and if an objective need is also expressed for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Jože Tanko has the floor for explanation on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u315	Thank you very much. We will support the composition of this commission in our parliamentary group. But I have to say, it's a little weird that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u316	Please calm down, quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u317	none of the institutions set up by that State responded to this epochal ownership that took place during the Slovenian transition. [[...]] When it was owned by postal collectors at home and abroad, neither the Anti-Money Laundering Office nor the Competition Office nor the infamous Kosovo Commission detected anything. In all these procedures, the management acquisitions of these companies through straw companies were huge transactions of money, huge transactions of shares in companies through "by passports", through all possible cases and we have and have legally established institutions that are obliged to pay particular attention to these areas and to verify virtually all these transactions and transfers of funds. Interestingly, the Kosovo Commission, for example, has seen absolutely nothing in this area. No findings, no proceedings were initiated, not for Mercury, not for BTC and not for Istrabenz, not for Ultra, in these recent cases and so on. I hope that the members of this commission will have more courage than the institutions we have set up so that this investigative commission will not be the victims of some paradoxes and some political pressures and influences, as those institutions I spoke about earlier. The fact that nothing has been detected since 1992, 1993, when these procedures were conducted, and until 2004, is strange. That's nice of you to say. The Court of Auditors, which revised a number of cases that went through public institutions, including the state budget, found nothing in this area. And here, if the Commission of Inquiry actually has this power and, above all, the personal will, it is said that those who are on this committee will be able to identify these matters, then we can expect some results. Otherwise, the commission of inquiry will only legalize and clear the suspicions of political responsibility of all those who "held the stand"! for these trials. There are many institutions, including state institutions, including Kad, the Court and others. And I think that these things should be opened much wider, much deeper and also very intensely. The results will certainly be interesting if the Commission is able to prove them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of yourself? I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that this explanation for the vote concerns the appointment of a President, Vice-Presidents, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission and that there is no room for discussion on other aspects or the establishment of this Commission. Explanation of the voice in his own name shall be given to the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. I will also, on my behalf not only on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, support the decision on the composition of the Commission, the President, the Vice-President and all members and each individual. There will be no doubt. Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to say just a few more words on the matter of the commission. I think it's high time that one day the Slovenian country was shown who was responsible for the pigs that were going on, who was responsible for the laws and laws that allowed such thievery, and who did the most of the thievery. I think it is high time that the world's light is taken away from former President Drnovšk and that it is said that in the time of his reign and with his thirst, everything that has happened has happened. It should be known that his former colleagues, too, have not given much thought to the welfare of the Slovenian state, but to their own well-being. I think it's about time we said that. All those who took advantage of the matter at his blessing or even some who did not have it, of course, followed. And it is necessary to reveal that something like this would never happen again. The fact is that the current government does not want to change certain laws to prevent such matters. Perhaps this commission will do what the current government has not done in order to clearly prohibit the continuation of the thefts that are taking place in the Slovenian economic space. I hope that it will do so on, not in the field of sanctions, but in the area of some kind of opening, at least, this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u321	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I will, on my own behalf, support the decision to appoint a President, a Vice-President and members of the Commission, as well as the Commission itself, but with one sad taste when it comes to the extent of their work, that the matter is limited to these two large acquisitions, I mean Istrabenz and Pivovarno Laška. The last time we had a delegation from Bavaria here, they wondered how one country could buy a brewery, say, the first newspaper in the country. Someone even said, it's like some brewery in Bavaria bought Deutsche Zeitung, say. And how can one brewery get such influential political power to waste so much time here and get stolen in some way that much money? How can a deficiently compromised politician like Bavčar, for example, cause such damage to an entrepreneurial giant like Istrabenz? But that this commission, I hope, will also go wider to local, regional areas, what those small local tycoons are also here in hundreds and thousands, that I will not say who together have robbed in this country the property of honest Slovenians and Slovenes and are now hiding behind this pursuit only in these two eccentric cases, the biggest cases. I also wonder how two of them, in a way like Bavčar and Shrott, can get such a great political power that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We're even asking if this is normal in another country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u322	Györek, we are discussing the composition of the members of the commission. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u323	You have to interrupt me again This is standard for the Slovenian National Party. [[...]] [[...]] Do you have anything against us? Do you really want me to? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u325	I will support Mr Lojzet Posede as President, Mr Guid Kres as Vice-President and will support all members and alternate members of the National Assembly investigative commission to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. I will support them because they will have to work publicly and transparently. And no matter what we mention in point e, I will be very exact and you can't interrupt me - Istrabenz, NKBM, Beerware Laško, but because they will find out, they will have to find a connection with a million other companies that have come out and committed sins in the previous and the previous authorities. That's why I'm going to back them up so that one day they'll know who did this. And I support this commission and the establishment and its members, so that what happened yesterday, whether it's guilty or not, will not happen. That one authority would allow itself to abolish the President of the Board of Directors, Luke Koper, just so you know, for false reasons, which are a secret. This is a piece of shit we can't afford. And this mess this commission, which I personally, Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, must disclose. And let him expose her. I cannot say from my mind that the Slovenian National Party removes the President of the Slovenian National Party for false reasons, which are a secret. I can't. I can't and I don't have that right. I support this committee because this committee is going to figure out what's right and what's wrong. Not that politicians will clean up their leaders and their political arguments just after a long time and over. They will condemn the right hand, but they themselves will do what the right hand has done. Let's get this committee to do it. That's why I support her. And once again, Aloys Posedel, I trust you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u326	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u327	Another paradox that is taking place in the National Assembly by the coalition is that I was invited as a signatory to the establishment of this commission of inquiry and because, of course, I want the pigs, if they are, to be made public, and in this case the political botts will be revealed. Unfortunately, the law enforcement authorities have not done their work, and unfortunately they have not done it for decades. But for known reasons, because they have the botts in politics and have been ordered. However, I should have been a signatory to the establishment of this Commission as a member of the National Assembly. The following step is taken when the 6th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states: "If a parliamentary inquiry is initiated at the request of a third of Members, all parliamentary groups shall have the same number of members or their deputies in the Commission of Inquiry." And the last sentence reads: "The President of the commission of inquiry shall be elected from among the Members who have applied for parliamentary investigation." It does not belong to the groups of the Members of Parliament, but to the Members who have made this request. It does not, however, say in Article 25, that the Rules of Procedure of the Investigative Commission, if not all of this is recorded here, is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, of course, states in Article 34 that a Member may also be a Member without a Member's Group and how it is done at that time. In this case, too, the matter was broken and - God help. The original sin of pigs and social property stems from 1994 when the National Assembly gave the mandate [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u328	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. The vast majority of us sitting here, 18 and a half years ago, decided not only on a different political system but also on a different economic system. Some of us were so young that we did not have these choices at the time. For this reason, it seems strange to me today that when we discuss this investigative committee, we are listening to the mixing of apples and pears, such as damage to social property and the reading of someone that they deserve in general. In short, whether someone 18 and a half years ago was not serious when he decided on a market economy or he did not fully understand any economic logic. I will support the proposed composition of this commission myself. I also trust her members, although they have given me thought to the concerns expressed in the presentations of the opinions of the groups of Members, as well as the explanations of vote, that they will now investigate the mailboxes of those who have some other mailboxes. I can safely say that the members of the Group of Ambassadors do have mailboxes only on the addresses of our residences where our mail is coming from. [[There's a group in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u330	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u331	I can certainly claim that this is the case, and I would ask that we limit ourselves to the facts in the debates. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u332	Please, Mr Rozej, this is not a debate on postal services, this is what we had this morning. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u333	I'm just talking about the dilemmas I'd have in support of. In short, I support it because I know that Mr Posedel has only one mailbox, the one in his home. Of course, I would ask that we are also accurate, exact in the debates, because I do not mark the SDS Members and Members of Parliament as arms dealers, but perhaps I have just as many reasons for this as Mr Tanko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u334	There's no controversy with anyone else, please. Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrea Vissiak regarding the reconstruction of the government. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members is, please, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! We are proposing a debate and, of course, the Group of Members will support this proposal. The data recently published by UMAR on the catastrophic situation in the Slovenian economy confirm that despite the good starting points, Slovenia has become extremely deeply involved in this crisis, and as a result, we are in great trouble. Government measures are not working and are therefore expected from the Government to effectively adapt the measures to the situation. But they're not, and they're not. Otherwise, there are many announcements of different packages, the first, second, third package, and in practice the measures in the first package have not yet been implemented, let alone to produce results. It is therefore more than necessary to discuss in Parliament where I think the basic possibility of a political debate is also given, the appropriateness of these measures, the effects of these measures and how to proceed. I also welcome now the announcement by the Prime Minister that he will finally invite the opposition to this development dialogue. So far, we've been gone. However, we expect this discussion to take place on some effective basis, not at some forum level. For this reason, it is essential that we move forward to Slovenia with measures that will revive economic activity that will help the economy breathe with its lungs, and not only by measures that mitigate the social consequences of job loss and jobs. The government mainly deals with this and neglects the economy, which still needs a hand and effective measures at this time. The debate is essential and crucial for the future development of Slovenia, and is also necessary for the planning of public finances and for the future. We are therefore convinced in the SDS that this debate is also more useful, not only for the economy, but also for the coalition that rejects this hand. As we have not heard these short-term measures, only some modernisation of the key systems are forecast, which are also likely to be necessary, but are not crucial for the short-term repopulation of this situation. So, honourable Members and Members, I propose that we hold this debate in order to prepare ourselves well for it, to also present measures, not just measures, but also deadlines for the implementation of those measures, and finally to put the situation in some higher gear.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u336	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Moved to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plemenite concerning the assessment of state institutions on the amount of compensation. We're voting. Can I help you? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speaks of the operation of the National Assembly in the Slovenian language. The Slovenian language also has its rules, it is quite complicated, but also in certain areas harder than other languages, but it does not mean that we should not respect it. Slovenian surnames indicate which person it is, not what kind of person it is, so in the case of the Victory of Jelinčič [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u338	Nobility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u339	Nobility should be removed and I would ask you to use Slovenian language in the future. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u340	Thank you, Mr. Rogers. At this point, I will stick to the settled statement, and I will commit this offence, but it is not said that I will in fact not change this position when I consult three other experts. Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the delegation of Zmago Jelinčič on behalf of the delegation of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u341	[[..]] [[speaks Albanian.]] He says that all languages should be respected, and I asked him in Albanian, and I greeted him and so on. [[...]] He'll learn if he doesn't know. I think it makes sense to discuss this matter, which I have proposed, because in Slovenia, Slovenian citizens and especially Slovenians with Slovenian citizenship do not have the same rights as those who are Slovenian citizens, but are not Slovenians or even Slovenians. The fact is, at the expense of some of these, I don't know what to say, people who look at it differently, like Kekcev, Rozletov and Kosorinov, otherwise measure the vats of Slovenian citizens and foreign people. Unfortunately, this is also happening in the area of police, judiciary, health services and so on. I don't know if you know, but if a gypsy comes to the medical station, he can go in there as a priority category, no matter what kind of injury or medical condition someone's in, even if they're lying on half-dead people on the floor outside the infirmary. Yes, it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u342	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u343	Equality [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u344	Please [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u345	It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u346	to limit yourself to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u347	equality [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u348	fantasy [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u349	is determined by the Slovenian State. [[...]] In short, Slovenians need to be beaten, they need to take all the rights, but of course some mentalists, who are mainly from different parties that are spinning around really, for fun, half really, not really and so on, will of course continue to try to drive in this direction. That is why I think it makes sense to discuss this, that things need to be prepared and brought to a clear conclusion. After all, on the one hand, if we take only those who fought against Slovenia, we will pay endlessly great damages, while those who were in Nazi camps will receive nothing. I also expect this coalition, which I would never have expected them to deny national liberation. We can also expect this, given how you work with this country and how you spit on Slovenian citizens and especially Slovenians with Slovenian citizenship.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u350	Thank you very much. We're voting. Mr. Rozej, after the vote. Not before the vote, after the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. Peace in the hall! There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. Mr. Rozej, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u351	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. President! I wanted to point out the incorrect use of languages in the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u352	Thank you so much. You did it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u353	No, Article 4 provides that we are in business in the Slovenian language, but Members have less opportunity to participate in their mother tongue, which is translated for the purposes of the functioning of the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u355	There is no Albanian language among these, so please give at least long-standing Members a warning about the use and respect of the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u356	If any of the Members and Members want to speak Albanian, we will provide a translation. Thank you very much. In accordance with France Tsukjati's proposal, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to France Tsukjati's question on measures to stabilise Slovenian health. Explanation of the vote by Mr France Tsukati on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u357	Thank you for your word. Let me explain this proposal, and you all know that for years and years we have been saying that there is also a demographic collapse in the health sector in this sense, because 80-year-olds, for example, are eight times more expensive to health than, say, 30-year-olds. And that demographic effect is threatening us. At the same time, it should be mentioned that we have really fallen into a difficult economic crisis, where bankruptcy, unemployment and a drastic fall in GDP will be sooner or later, accounting for about six months, and this crisis has also hit the health field. As for the economy, we do not now approach some systemic changes in the economy in Slovenia, but to measures aimed at preventing the consequences of the economic crisis and being urgent, so it would also be necessary to act in the field of health now that it is time for the health crisis not to occur. These projects, these proposals or visions have not yet been demonstrated by the Ministry. It stated that while it plans to prevent a major shortage of resources in health care by some measures, this is, say, a 20% reduction in hospital depreciation, a 5% reduction in wages, a 5% reduction in the financing of tertiary activities, but these are not measures, this is only a consequence, less money will also be used for hospitals. So there's no action anywhere. And when we discussed a package of measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia in May, some of the measures proposed by the SDS also addressed some of the proposals for health measures. In individual areas, the Government responded with its actions and also had some idea of how it would resolve it. In the area of health, not a single measure has been taken by the Ministry to prevent this collapse. For this reason, I think it is a very late time for us to discuss the Minister's response. What is predicted is a major amendment to the Health Act, which is in public debate, will not mean anything positive, nothing in terms of preventing this collapse, because such systemic changes only mean more resources and a burden on the budget rather than saving.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Robert Hrovat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Dr Ljubice Jelusic to Robert Hrovat's question on the theft of weapons from the warehouse in Pivka. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Robert Hrvat on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u359	Thank you so much for saying that. I think I should renew something about yesterday's dialogue between me and Madam Minister. The fact is, she's 19. 5. The Ministry of Defence has been informed of one major shamparija, a major embarrassment for Slovenia. 19. 5. The Ministry has been informed that there has been a break-in in the warehouse of unexploded paints in Pivka. The fact is that it is still unknown today, and yesterday the Minister confirmed whether it was also a weapon theft or even an incomplete record of that weapon waiting for destruction and being stored in that warehouse. So the fact is that given that terrorism is not resting and we are talking about hand bombs, we are talking about armbrusts and RPG-22, that means that if these weapons come into the hands of the wrong people, tragedy can also happen. The next warning I gave to Minister Jelusic yesterday is that the Defence Committee was not informed until 14 days after the event. The fact is that there has been a lot of talk about new practice, about a different event in the National Assembly, that the National Assembly will be immediately informed of all matters, that it will have more power than it has been in the past. But the fact is that we have only received this information on the basis of the intervention of the President of the Defence Committee and also colleague of the Victory of Jelinčič. I would expect the Minister to act as she was told before the elections that the Defence Committee would have a greater role to play. Yesterday's answer wasn't satisfactory. In yesterday's reply, I actually only got assurances that some people have changed and that they are still being investigated. The fact is, we don't know anything. Was this weapon detached or was it incomplete records? And I think it is right for us to unite to hold a debate on the Minister's response, while at the same time taking note of the findings of the authorities investigating these matters. I think it's a nice opportunity for all of us to get to know the conclusions together, if even a closed session is necessary, because it's going to be information that's secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u360	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Member Rudolph Petan, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič at Rudolph Petan's question concerning excise duties." Rudolf Petan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u361	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. Yesterday, I also asked the Minister whether it was in the interest of the State, which is said to this government right now, that its citizens are equal to the citizens of the other Member States of the European Union. It's not like we're talking about oil derivatives prices right now. As of today, new prices of petroleum derivatives have been applied due to these strong increases in the consumption of petroleum derivatives. The fact is that six months ago we had the lowest excise duty available in Europe, and now we have one higher. And now it's happened that from now on we have more expensive oil derivatives than they are in Switzerland, for about 4 cents. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that there are between two and a half times the wages in Switzerland. We also have a higher price of derivatives, which is the lowest rated, which is diesel, like in Germany, for 2 cents, not to speak of Poland, Slovakia, Spain, where the price of oil derivatives is 20% lower, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, where they also have strong higher wages, Iceland, Ireland, Greece, Denmark, Czech Republic, Austria than our neighbour, Hungary as our neighbour, Croatia as our neighbour. This means that citizens are not equal, given the level of wages we pay more for oil derivatives than elsewhere. And that changed in six months. Six months ago, we had one of the lowest prices of oil derivatives in Europe because we had the lowest excise duty. Now we have one of the highest, we're in the top third, we were in the bottom third. But the worst part is that transit or traffic going through Slovenia is about the same. Environmental pollution is said to be about the same. The amount of releases, smoke or SO2, CO2 of these vehicles shall be approximately the same. However, since the prices of derivatives are more expensive, drivers, of course, buy these derivatives where they are cheaper, which is when they enter Slovenia or when they exit, and transit through Slovenia, which means that the country gets less. So, citizens are beaten twice. For the first time, because we have the same pollution as before, the prices of oil derivatives, which are one of the highest in Europe. And that changed dramatically in six months. That is why I have asked the Minister what this pricing policy is going to be like in the future with regard to oil derivatives, of course also in the context of environmental pollution. And whether the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be equal to the others. So, this price policy in the future, so I would like to discuss it. And please confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of the group? Please, Franci Kek, explain your voice on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u363	I won't support the proposal. Our citizens are not interested in how much petrol there is in Switzerland or Luxembourg, and they are interested in how much they have to pay in their own country. And now it's around the euro, about a year ago, but two of them were over the euro. And I think they're more pleased with it being around the euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u364	Thank you very much. I request applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u365	Thank you for your word. I think there is a need for a broader debate on this pressing issue, because I see no real reason why excise duties should be so high in our country. Economic indicators show that excise duties are moderate, that consumption is higher, and ultimately, that revenue is higher in the state budget. Also, given that transport is something everyday for today's life, and transport is driven by an inflationary generator, these excessive excise duties will soon strike back with excessive inflation and we may wonder someday if we meet the Maastricht criteria. That is why it shows a broader debate and analysis and perhaps a better solution to this problem. Fuel's too expensive. All the neighbors used to go to the tanks in Slovenia, and now it's the other way around. Slovenia is small enough to be easily transported to Hungary by filling up a tank in Italy and then retanking again. Also, our large logistics companies, auto carriers, have been ordered long ago to refuel abroad and save slightly, no matter how much fuel they have in the tank. This, of course, fills the budgets of other countries, not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Marijan Pojbič has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u367	The President-in-Office or the President-in-Office! I will certainly support this broader debate. I must say in all this time of six, seven, eight months of the government of President Borut Pahor, clearly shows that things are not going in the right direction in this country. This government has become a champion after something. Almost unbelievable in everything she has shown so far is extremely successful, and she has become a champion in the field of the burden of Slovenian taxpayers. We have practically the highest price of oil derivatives in Slovenia, in terms of wages that are essentially below the EU average. And, dear colleagues, this seems perfectly normal, logical. For me as a Member, and not just as a Member, as a citizen [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u368	Don't mess with the other side.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u369	So, Mr President, I wanted to express my opinion, I do not intend to be adamant and agree with you. As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I am very interested in how I live in this country and what conditions the government, which is in power, provides and creates for me. And this is at this moment the government of Mr Borut Pahor. I must say that I find it unacceptable, unreasonable and unacceptable that this government has become, as I have said in the beginning, a champion. First of all, it burdens Slovenian taxpayers. Each of us and those who have elected this government, this power and this coalition of yours, are at least what they expected, what you promised before the elections to do in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But you didn't prove it through your actions, and I'm sure the Slovenes and Slovenians will remember it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u370	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote is mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will only support this proposal because it is necessary to say that it is already true that last year the price of oil derivatives was around 1.20 euros, but the price of crude oil was 140 dollars for barrel. Today, retail prices of oil derivatives are slightly higher than the euro, with the price of crude oil, as we all know, 70, about 70 euros per judge. The fact is also that Slovenia lies 76, I am speaking round numbers. [[...]] Slovenia lies at the foot of two European corridors, which means it is a transit country. And a policy that leads to high oil derivatives prices, which are almost higher than all neighbouring countries, at this point in time, according to my data, only Italy has higher prices, leading to a logical flow of less excise duty into the state budget than in policy that the countries of excise or retail prices are lower than in neighbouring countries. I will therefore vote to hold a debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u372	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 24 to 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. According to the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, to Dr Petr Verlic's question on changing the priority of railway infrastructure construction on the sixth EU priority project through Slovenia. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Peter Verlič on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u373	Your Honor! I suggest that the National Assembly really does this debate. I asked the Minister of Transport: Has the Ministry of Transport really changed the priority on the sixth priority project from Trieste - Divace and Ljubljana to Budapest and from Kopra to Divaca, so that the route from Kopra to Divace becomes one-off, while the route from Trieste to Divaci remains two-tier? So does this really mean that the line from Trieste will have better parameters than Kopra, it is said that Trieste will be in a better position than Koper? The basis for this oral question was the answer to my written question, where the Ministry of Transport developed an idea project for the new two-tier line of Divac-Koper changed, interrupted and changed priorities by taking into account the implementation of the section from Divaca to Koper in one part to the site that we do not know where it is, for a single track. In the previous mandate, we have made great efforts to reach an international agreement between Slovenia, Italy and the European Commission due to the pressures of the neighbouring country, that we have seen both routes from Trieste to Divaca and from Kopra to Divaca as equivalent, thus ensuring the existence of the sixth priority project through Slovenia. The pressures were enormous, let me just say that Italy wanted 6 kilometres from Kopra to Trieste all the time and a modern link through Slovenia, which would probably be rejected later and the sixth priority project would go through Italy and the lower part of Austria. And let us not forget that in the European Commission we have Italian Transport Commissioner Tajania, who is probably now looking forward to the Slovenian Transport Ministry changing its priorities and changing the agreement that has already been adopted. Last time we will discuss this in the National Assembly and the Minister of Transport, we will also arm ourselves with the decision of the National Assembly not to allow this to happen, that Koper-Divača and Trst-Divača are equivalent to a two-tier track, so that the Minister of Transport can return the blue light directly to Brussels and tell Commissioner Tajani: Koper-Divača is a two-tier track.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u374	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Anyone else? Mr. Jože Tanko's explanation of voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u375	Thank you very much. In view of what my colleague Verlic has said, this change in railway corridors may not be an accident, but it may also be an integral part of these discussions on the wine system, and this is also some sort of compensation to Commissioner Tajani that we will somehow get this silent agreement with a certain price of shorter wines for the temporary use of the wine system. I think that the National Assembly should approach this area of resolution and opening of Luke Koper against central Slovenia and further towards Hungary with all seriousness. It is likely that the Republic of Slovenia is a priority in the rail transport field. And I don't think we should let anyone down. And it would be good to have a debate on what has actually happened in the short term in the regulation of the railway network, both in the Transport Committee, where the President of the colleague Weber, as well as in the National Assembly, is also, and to give all the necessary political basis for the fifth corridor to be carried out in the way it is actually intended. All other alternatives giving priority to other corridors and building links to other networks are essentially spare options or variants that do not mean anything good for Slovenia, but give transport to Slovenia from this transport area. I propose that you also support this proposal. I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Since the interest in explanation of vote is in your own name, please apply. Rudolf Petan has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u377	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will, of course, support this proposal. I still remember the discussions on the railways from the previous term, especially my colleagues from Koperski were justifiably very loud about what is the second track of Koper-Divača. There was also talk about the fast track. Now the situation is that I just can't imagine it. This is where the great damage to Slovenia was done. How it happened, I don't know at this point, and I could just speculate. I could say that this minister has now "falsified" the advantage that we had to have, on a European scale, an important corridor from Kopra to Divaca. Thus it became essentially a more important link between Divaca and Trieste. So the Italians are getting something, but I'm not going to say it. I said it was speculation that this minister did it, maybe it was in connection with some vignettes or something. Basically, this is not good for Slovenia, so we should get the right answers in the National Assembly as to how this happened. It could be someone else's will and the Minister doesn't even know about it. I am also representing the view that the Minister cannot know all the details and details. While he has staff to keep him informed about this, we do know that this system is large, so he could represent his own position that the Minister does not know about it. It would therefore be right if we voted on this proposal that the Minister is aware of this and informs us what it is about what this means for Slovenia now. I am convinced that this does not mean good for Slovenia, so that it can mean a withdrawal to the side track for a few ten years. That is why I think it is right to hold this debate and actually find out what is going on in these railway corridors and where Slovenia is, even if it is not already on the side track. I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u379	Thank you. If we listen to the Minister’s answers to these questions, we do not need to explain today’s voice, for all that we are listening to today is that we are not actually listening to each other, or we do not want to listen to each other. The fact is that the route cannot be placed as a two-track railway in the space. If this route had been in space in the past four years, we would be discussing today when these works would be delivered and when the second track or both tracks would be built. I think that we all remember how the President of the former government promised after Slovenia, when the law on space regulation is amended, we will place ourselves in a room without the problem of the development axis, the railway route, in short, everything will fall together and there will be no problems. The fact is, in the past four years, no route has been placed in space. And if we want to draw on European money or start at least updating one track, because Koper-Divič is an extremely important track for our port, we need to start building at least one track. And it is envisaged that a second track will then be built in the coming years. Nobody gave up the second track, and I don't know how many times it's been explained, but I want to discuss it again. I don't know why. It is possible to place one track in the space and then build another track further when there is a need for even greater traffic. No one's ever forgiven anyone. However, the fact is that something was not done until yesterday and that is why it is necessary to resolve the situation today in this way. Of course, I will vote against this because these answers have already been given.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u380	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u381	Thank you so much for saying that. I am certainly in favour of discussing the question of colleague Verlic in the State Assembly of the Minister of Transport's reply to the Member of the Parliament. It goes, you know, to something completely contradictory from an international agreement. This is not good for Slovenia and I regret that the predecessor debated in favour of Italy, not in favour of Slovenia. Whether or not it's more single [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u382	Mr. Marinic, there's no controversy, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u383	Whether it's more of a single track than a two-tier track, we can ask ourselves, I think it's very credible. If there are two tracks, there is a significantly better position of a country with two tracks than a country with a single track. And here we have to be united. I agree, and I have already said in the National Assembly that every minister is somehow entangled among his coworkers who can advise him and tell him what reflects some actual situation, or what they may have speculated and done in the past for another account. And here I am very surprised by the fact that it deviates from the international agreement that has been concluded and which gives Slovenia better starting points. We should not agree to avoid a wider debate in the National Assembly on this issue. And this will only benefit the Republic of Slovenia in front of Italy. And here we must be aware that this is a matter of national interest and not avoid the fact that such a debate would not be in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Since I don't want to politicise myself with the other side, I'm going to argue with myself and ask myself whether or not the Slovenian government has decided to move forward with the project on just one new track and not the whole track. And I'll answer that. As I listened to the minister's response, I found a very clear answer. That she did so because if we went forward with the construction project or the preparation for the construction of the whole new track, it would take a lot longer than it is now going to be to prepare a single new track, for which we will probably see the start of construction by the end of next year. If I still ask myself what's better, having a sparrow in my hand or a pigeon on my roof, I know the answer. More specifically. What's better? Having a new two-tier route somewhere in the air that has not been specified in four years and would probably not become meat for quite some time, or now have a new track that will start to be built by the end of next year and which will then be possible to upgrade, so have one new track on which we can get European funding that we could otherwise lose. If I answer: it is better to have one new track before than a new track, the question is when. Since I'm from Kopra, I feel this question strongly, and I actually want the shovels to start working as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u386	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u387	Thank you, Madam President. This debate must take place in the National Assembly. It has to be done mainly because any developmental time dimension in Slovenian railways in the context of what we are talking about today is that Koper - Divača connection is already delayed. It is true that for this single project we have purchased land, spatial plans adopted and so on and that it is only possible to do this better than to drag and translate this into a different time dimension for a number of years. Why is this late, ladies and gentlemen? That's because we're already losing the battle of time today. Time is a non-refundable component, loads carry us, we lose our jobs, and here we fight what we do. But I'll tell you how smart we are. For five years we have not been able to spend on this project, which we are now talking about, the five million grants that Europe has given us. That's basically how we had to get them back. And why didn't we spend it on this project? Because we have not provided our own participation to draw on these already allocated European funds within our budget. As much as we can do at home. We have established a directive and, as far as I am concerned, we should seek responsibility, because in the previous term of our mandate, we have indebted our families for three generations, when we passed the guarantee law for borrowing credits, from which we haven't pumped or done any smart project, we have lost [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And not a single euro. [[...]] We have a directing agency with a ficus and director in Maribor, as well as an agency that has its own purpose. In short, there's a crime going on. However, foreigners who receive safety certificates drive us [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u388	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Györek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior of Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Györek on the illegal issue of citizenship and bribery of officials." Explanation of the vote Srečko Friend on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u389	Thank you very much. This debate is essential mainly because we were able to read in the media of public information, that in Maribor it was committed against four suspected bribes, public prosecutions, and that this organised criminal association was engaged in counterfeiting, issuing documents also for those who have never been in Slovenia. That difference, seven thousand more citizens, is also the work of these gentlemen. And Booth Krasnigi also received from this Dr. Boris Paj, who gave her the necessary certificates, a lawsuit based on what was written there, and also compensation. The people who are actually now affluent with citizenship came from other parts of Europe, mostly from the former Yugoslavia. And what's least immoral and cruel, gentlemen have received 10,000 euros, for example. That's right. Take a look at the evening and address ten thousand euros for one confirmation. And we call on you to hold an extensive debate here on the basis of the Skopje replies of the distinguished Minister. The other thing that is shameful and enshrined in the law is that those who give citizenship can no longer be taken citizenship, even if they are engaged in a hostile activity in the Republic of Slovenia. It's written in the law. I've talked about it before. And to have such a bed of enemies in our Slovenia, which you give them a piece of white bread, at least seven thousand can be assumed that, if everything has gone fair and normal before, seven thousand is a difference, calling for us to do something. These people are also on this budget item and are drawing their livelihoods from various social transfers. Slovenians, Slovenian families also do not receive such support as these newcomers. And imagine a little bit of the fact that today, in fact, those who work honestly, have to spend one hundred and eighty hours a month with four hundred euros, while one gypsy family gets a thousand five hundred euros. Elka Strojan was happy to show this bill. It is more than imperative that this debate be held and that we also, in essence, make a review for the citizenship granted back.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u390	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 38. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. With regard to the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to Mr Zvonk Černač's question on the payment of work performance and overtime in the District Courts. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. With regard to the proposal by Member Mir Petk, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Petk on the amendments to the aviation network. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Miro Petek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u391	Thank you very much. We haven't joined together yet. The Decree on Notary Cities and the Number of Notaries, adopted on 27 March of this year or published on 27 March of this year in the Official Journal, reduces the number of Notary Cities from 125 to 98. This decree reduces accessibility to notaries and in some ways strengthens the exclusiveness of this feature and the monopoly of notaries. The interiors here swear on the formula that there is less, the real less there are notaries - the more they have jobs, the more they have profits, but people say "less expensive", because the less accessibility to notaries, the longer the way, the more waiting. Today we have heard many times here - gasoline is money, we can add that time is money. Apparently, the minister is the hostage of this notary lobby, just like the hostage of a lawyer. And this is a similar story, but in another dress. Therefore, of course, I propose that we discuss the reply of Minister Zalar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u392	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u393	So we can check the Notary Network here together. [[...]] Yesterday, the minister admitted that in the case of Koroška, Raven in Koroška, the Mežiški valley made one mistake, and was willing to correct this mistake in the autumn, by saying that he was a master of apologizing for his own mistake or his own stupidity. It is also heard in the public that notary services are to be encouraged in the future, saying fewer notaries - more expensive services. It would therefore be appropriate to discuss this in the National Assembly. Given the early conclusion of this summer's meeting, there would be no delay if we voted in favour of this proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u394	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožet Jerovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Igor Lukšič to the question of Mr Jerovška's question about the advent of members of the Government for advertising purposes. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much and very much.
