ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richtar after 12:00, Janja Klasinc, Janez Janša, Milan Gumzar, Ljubo Germič, Branko Marinič, Anton Urh, Franc Jurša, Matjaž Zanoškar, Alenka Jeraj, Milenko Ziherl, Marjan Pojbič, Roberto Battelli, Samo Bevk, Miro Friday, Marjan Bezjak and Mag. Radovan Žerjav. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and other representatives of the Government to the meeting. We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. May I have your attention and attention, please? You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 5 October 2009. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Presentation of the 2010 and 2011 budget memorandum of the Republic of Slovenia, draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 We are moving to the first part of the consideration and adoption of the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 in the National Assembly. Under the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the Budget Memorandum, the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor to present these budgetary documents. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The budget is a fundamental tool for balancing public financial flows. The Government, which is proposing to the 2010 and 2011 National Budget Assembly, wants to achieve development balance: for the first time, by introducing targeted budgets for these two years; for the second time, by introducing a fiscal rule and for the third time, by structural adjustments. The text of the document relating to the last is attached to all other documents for this discussion. The latest macroeconomic forecasts of international institutions still predict a fall in gross domestic product, both in general and in most of our most important external trading partners. The financial crisis has led to a significant decline in international trade and is mainly linked to our economy. The stability of the economic situation in some major developed economies, while giving some small hope that we are approaching, say, the bottom of the crisis and that some leaders have already dared to talk about the time when we are preparing exit strategies, but after all, this recovery will be extremely gradual. The temporary nature of most anti-crisis measures in the international environment has led to a delay in adapting the labour market. Budget or economic growth in the euro area will also be less modest than desired. If we were able to see, at the time of the rebalancing, that the euro area had experienced a strong fall in GDP in the first two quarters of this year, and even with some admiration we were looking towards the eastern part of Europe, we mentioned, say, Poland - Poland because domestic demand is much higher there, not so dependent on export - today we can find that even in most South East and Eastern European trading partners this year, gross domestic product is expected to fall and they will not be gradually recovered until 2010 and 2011. There is a likelihood that the recovery of the economy will be faster than the forecast - who today would be a psychic would not be a poor person. Of course, if the monetary and fiscal measures taken by the European Central Bank and the governments of individual countries are large enough, ours too will have higher and more positive effects than those assessed. It is not only that we find that some of the measures that have not been taken as we would like to, but most of the European countries do, and perhaps, for some of the most worrying, the measures that have been taken for some quarter have already disappeared, and instead of the letter L, that is, after a large decline in GDP and the expected stagnation of a number of years, there has been a so-called double W. Just look at the forecasts of the German automotive industry and all those who know how important it is for the Slovenian economy, we will have at the forecast for gradual economic growth in 2010 and 2011 a slightly less modest hope. This year, according to the predictions of Umarja - I say, this is the prediction of Umarja, this is the service that is under my intervention, and it seems to me that the service that is under my intervention was the most conservative in the assessment of economic growth. At the annual level, it estimates that we will have 7.3% of GDP decline this year, while others predict about 5.5%. However, we need to find out the reasons, two are crucial: a strong decline in exports - this year will be reduced by almost 18% - and investments in fixed assets that will fall by 21%. The funding conditions are improving due to the anti-crisis measures introduced in the second half of the year, suggesting a renewed increase in bank credit activity. Whether I am satisfied with the activities of banks as President of the Government and the Council of Ministers - their business is, the thing of administrations and supervisory councils to work in favour of banks, but if I look at the general benefit of society from their activities, I can see that they are still sitting on a bag of money and waiting for better times for business lending. The macro-economic interest would be to finally start doing their job and the money they received with the State guarantee will start lending to businesses because it is losing it more and more. And then when we have meetings with representatives of the employers' associations, we can find that instead of the measures that we have taken here all of us and are supposed to release the credit crunch, this spasm does not give in because the banks are more cautious than it should be, domestically even more than foreign, and are sitting on the money that we have provided and is essentially a storage facility instead of a bank. But I'm saying, the thing about control councils and banks is they're running a policy that they think is right. With the high growth of staff resources, which I think is fine, and the impact of last year's and this year's fiscal policy measures, only national consumption will increase this year. So next year, all of us, too, are predicting a recession, due to the calming of recession in the international environment, our economy is expected to record a slightly positive growth of close to 1%. In the coming years, it should not be significantly different. We expect an increase of about 4% in exports. Under the influence of domestic and international factors, we believe that economic growth may be further strengthened in 2011, say, 2.5% and certainly not anymore. The situation in the labour market is, of course, deteriorating and will be improved by a delay. For 2009, we expect a 2.4% reduction in employment. The relatively small decline in employment in Slovenia, substantially lower than in the vast majority of other countries, is due to the fall in activity due to our measures to maintain jobs and to the greater integration of the unemployed into active employment policy programmes, which has increased by almost 100% with a 50% increase in unemployment. Without intensive measures in the labour market, about 20 000 people in Slovenia would have no work more than we have. The average annual rate of registered unemployment, this is the most conservative estimate we have to have, will be 9.1% this year, the second year will increase to 10.6%, which will still be very low compared to other countries, but on average is of course interested in statistics, often spoken of by the Government and the National Assembly, who are unemployed, in this 10%, of course, it is the one who bears the greatest burden of this crisis especially if their partner is unemployed and the whole family is in a financial crisis. The decline in economic activity in 2009 will also have an impact on wage developments in the private sector, where nominal growth in gross wages will be markedly slowed. In the coming years, the government will lead a restrictive wage policy in the public sector by reducing public financial expenditure. This year, the wage- productivity ratio will deteriorate significantly and gradually improve in the coming years. In 2011, wage growth in the private sector will be the same and will fall behind in productivity. Those who may have listened more closely to my speech, you know that I have set this as the goal of government policy in this mandate. With a relatively high deficit and an increase in the country's debt, the fiscal policy, as it is this year, will be extended to two key objectives in the coming years: achieving macroeconomic stability on the one hand and supporting long-term growth on the other. With the adoption of anti-crisis measures, there is an increasing risk for the stability of public finances in the medium and long term, but, like other countries, we must act in the short term. We must, although not in such volume as was proposed in this high assembly, because this reduces the revenue side of the budget, and on the other hand there are rights that we owe to public financial services and there is a deficit that would not be sustained. So fiscal policy is at the forefront of whether or not to provide the so-called Maastricht criteria, which set out a surplus of government deficits and debt, or to what extent it should be sufficient to meet the Lisbon objectives, is said to be the development objectives of economic policies. We have tried to follow developmental orientation as far as possible, which allows us to continue to do so. Tax reliefs, ladies and gentlemen, have reduced government revenues in recent years. That's good. However, this was not accompanied by measures to reduce the overall volume of restructuring of public financial expenditure. That's not good. As a result, scissors are increasingly opening up between income and expenditure, which is an additional problem with the need to finance anti-crisis measures and to increase the level of social benefits. Without changes in individual policies at the end of the medium-term period, the public debt would be 55% and the deficit would be between 7% and 8% throughout the years. That's impossible, that's unacceptable! Our goal is to stop these trends, and the public deficit will not exceed 5.6% next year, including all cash flows, and in 2011 it will be lower for good. Public debt is expected to increase up to 40% of gross domestic product. Such a public financial deficit is, of course, relatively high. However, given the economic situation, nothing deviates from the deficits planned by other European countries, including the euro. There's nothing special about that. Due to the slow recovery of the economy, the rapid withdrawal of anti-crisis measures and the excessive reduction in government spending could lead to additional negative consequences and the projected improvement of public finances is not planned until 2011. When we prepare both budgets, we have decided to use, as you may have noticed, a part of Parliament will certainly not approve of this, and the other part will not approve of it, a new approach to its design. The point is that we have directly linked spending planning with the objectives and activities to achieve these objectives. In this way, we encourage a more precise definition of the objectives, and thus the necessity of an agreement on what and how much we really need for the balanced development of Slovenia. For this assessment, we have asked ourselves about the role of the country in promoting development and have tried to determine which policies within policies can make the most effective contribution to sustainable development. This was the basis for determining the structure of public expenditure. The programme budget is therefore, as I said at the outset, a tool for greater integration of policy objectives and actions, its result should be more effective. The basis for the preparation of such a budget was also an analysis of all existing and existing development, strategic and implementation documents - these are very much in Slovenia - and of the state budget expenditure implemented since 2000. The proposed budget cut for 2010 and 2011 brings the existing strategies together within the framework of the following development policies and priorities. Firstly, the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, where our priority will be to provide financial resources for small and medium-sized enterprises and to provide efficient and targeted services to support entrepreneurship, develop the business environment and creativity. Secondly, higher education, science, technology and information society, where our priority will be to increase investment in technology and science, in particular for the economy, to renovate higher education, to improve investment efficiency in research and development and to improve the quality of achievements, and to extend the use of information and communication technology. Thirdly, painfully, the labour market, where we will focus our activities in particular on an effective and targeted employment policy together with greater efficiency in the functioning of labour market institutions. Fourthly, education, culture and sport, where our priority will be to provide a quality and accessible educational system of services at all levels, to provide an enabling environment for the preservation and development of Slovenian culture, art and language, and to promote the sport activity of the population and to promote the highest results. Fifthly, transport and transport infrastructure, where our priorities will focus on updating the rail system, which will allow for the long-term diversion of passengers from individual road transport, we will implement measures to effectively use energy in transport with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants, as well as road infrastructure measures for smooth and safe transport. In recent days, I have been in frequent contact with the high representatives of the Transport Ministry as well as the new Director General of Railways. Me and you would like things to move faster when starting up the new transport infrastructure on the railway, but I have to tell you that the works are going as best as possible for those who are doing them. The study is over, it will be presented soon. I myself will visit the Slovenian Railways management next week, so the public will also be informed of the study that is ready. And slowly, I think next year, we can expect to plant the first shovels for what we will say after the end of the highway cross. As I announced at the press conference yesterday, there is also a bottom story saved, so there will be an ad act within three weeks. As regards the conditions for the continuation of the construction, I hope that this mandate will begin after the end of the highway with the renovation of the railway infrastructure. Week, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, food. Our priority will be to ensure the sustainable development of agriculture, the processing and production of quality and safe food and the sustainable development of forests and fisheries. Environmental and spatial policy, eight times where the focus will be on integrating environmental and spatial aspects into sectoral policies, optimising spatial and project documentation processes. Many of you are mayors, and you know what our problem is, and I hope we can save them. Because if we don't solve this, we can't do anything. We will increase investment in and use of environmental technologies. Ninthly, social security and health care - for our people, there is nothing more important than health - where our first task will be to maintain the level of social security achieved, but at the same time to increase for the first time, transparency, secondly, efficiency and thirdly, the fairness of obtaining social benefits. We will modernise the pension and disability system and increase the efficiency and quality of healthcare, including greater efficiency of investments in the rational network of healthcare providers. Ten years. National security of defence and foreign affairs, the central task of defence will be to gradually build the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to carry out collective national defence tasks and to participate in international operations and missions. Here I know that there are different views and concerns about this. The next week, my National Security Council will meet shortly after this, the government. Before the final decision on very delicate mission matters, we would also like to consult with this high assembly. We will strive to raise standards in policy analysis and immigration of refugees and foreigners. In the field of external affairs, our priority will be to increase the efficiency of economic diplomacy. By implementing the key programmes set out in the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, we will improve the preparedness and response of forces to the protection, resolution and assistance of climate change disasters. All those who are being evaluated at the same time in saving people and property when natural disasters occur, you must admit that Slovenian civil protection works exemplaryly, will soon have its holiday, I think next week in New Town, and you are also politely invited to this event. In connection with the development-oriented budget, discussions were held simultaneously on both anti-crisis and structural measures. I see that I am running out of time, so I must, although I would like to do otherwise, hurry up with this important topic. Counter-crisis measures are mostly directed at us and outside in the short term. Public financial constraints and clear demographic trends - fewer and fewer people working for more and more pensioners - clearly indicate that certain structural changes cannot be avoided absolutely. The Government has launched a debate with the public, social partners and will conclude it here at the National Assembly. Structural adjustments over the next two years will take place in the following four areas. First time. Urgent institutional adjustments in the field of the conduct of public institutions. What we now have is the succession of a state of emergency in 1990, many laws reach into the birth of our country, we are now in 2009, and we still have an old legal, systemic basis - impossible to meet the challenges of modern times. Another time. Promoting entrepreneurship of the competitiveness and transparency of the labour market. Like I said before: painful, but urgent. Only if I say that - this is of course a superficial assessment - has fallen the social product by more than 10% at the statistical level in one year, not at the individual level, because there are differences here, some have survived better, others are significantly worse. Has our standard decreased by 10%? Not so much. Why? Because we have taken social action this year. But this difference between how much our standard should have fallen if GDP fell and what we have today is the fall of our competitiveness. We must have a competitive economy in the long run if we are to have jobs, especially those with high added value. If we are to achieve competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen, we need to discuss how much we can capture in the area of solidarity, not too much to break the system of solidarity and social security. Here I must be very clear and look at the opposition in this sense, the government is not about buying social peace, it is about those who are not guilty of this crisis, in which they will not pay the burden of its resolution, but we must find a balance. Third time. Adaptations to transport and energy infrastructure for effective environmental and climate policy. And in the end, fourth time. Adjustments to the social security and healthcare system. The first group of important institutional adjustments concerns six measures. Firstly, the establishment of a public agency for the management of state-owned enterprises and the transformation of a capital and compensation company; then the establishment of a public fund for the management of state-owned property; further - the strengthening of the financial services control institution; further - the adjustment of control in the area of network services; communications, energy and transport, where the proposal to carry out a reflection and by 2010 the procedure shall be initiated, if so decided, by a supervisory institution in the field of telecommunications and energy and transport. Now this is going to be a big debate, but in the end we have to come up with a solution. The transformation of the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia is envisaged. Strengthening the competition protection institution and transforming the Competition Protection Authority into an independent institution will be important. I must make this very clear that there will be no debate about how the Government now wants to reorganise these institutions politically in line with its ambitions. You know that before I took office as Prime Minister, I visited the regulators with the team and gave them my word that they should not be bullied by anyone if they were to give me this message. If anything has happened to anyone, I don't know, to the Securities Market Agency, other agencies, to Mr. Sorsak, to call and let me know that they're being bullied by the government and that they want such or other decisions by the minister or me personally. [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u4	An important institution will also be the OECD, the Organisation for Cooperation and Development - I hope that next year we will be members - supports the strengthening of the independence of this institution, and it will also be important to set up a public procurement agency. Centralising public procurement procedures - now be careful! Centralising public procurement procedures, which covers around 10% of GDP in Slovenia, does not mean direct centralisation of public procurement as anyone might think, but, if I can be clear enough, centralising procedures and methods that lead to a more efficient performance of this function. I hope that those of you who are in previous mandates, certainly we who have this task in this mandate, have not been satisfied with the public procurement system in Slovenia. I do not want to go into detail, but no one can be satisfied with this; this system needs to be changed. Changes in the area currently governed by the Law on Institutions are also envisaged. This is a viable legislative obstacle and makes it impossible for economic public services to function effectively. This law is, I think, even from 1991, but today we are in 2009. How will the Law on Institutions respond to today’s challenges 20 years ago?Oh, my God! The second set of structural adjustments is aimed at promoting entrepreneurship and transparency in the labour market, improving the conditions for more efficient financing of development programmes and small and medium-sized enterprises. We note that we have a relatively large number of implementing institutions, we have a SIB bank, an entrepreneurial fund, an EcoFund, a regional development agency, we have JAPTI, etc., which are under-coordinated with each other in their business policies and instruments that try to stimulate development projects in the economy. In this area, in 2010, we are planning changes that will allow these institutions to either be organisationally linked or coordinate business plans for the medium term and thus allow for better use of European funds. Yesterday I looked at statistics on the use of European funds, and I don't mind if we discuss this issue here once. I think that would be good. We cannot be completely unhappy, but there is no reason for us to be proud of the successes we have achieved. I think that some institutional changes will also need to be made if we are to be more successful. However, I must also make it clear what the Minister for Regional Policy said to me: "I immediately noticed where the problems in the system are, but this system is accredited and if we went immediately into a change of system, we would need time for new accreditation in Brussels and would be further delayed with time to succeed in drawing European funds." So now we're in the middle of something, and we have to decide what we're going to do here for once. I myself think institutional changes are needed and I would like to risk, by 2013 we need to draw on the money. There's money waiting for us, the only real fresh money in times of crisis. The next set is adaptations in the field of transport, energy and environmental climate policy. I don't want it to look like it doesn't matter to the government: it is, but I'm running out of time and the rules need to be respected in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, for an additional presentation of the 2010 and 2011, draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Allow me also to present a slightly more detailed information on the 2010 and 2011 budget presented by the Government in Parliament. In accordance with Article 28 of the Public Finance Act, by 1 October each year the Government must submit a draft budget for the next two years with all the necessary documents to the National Assembly. That's what we did. Despite the difficult economic situation, the macroeconomic and public financial situation in which we are in, in part, with the other countries in the financial crisis, partly due to the unfortunate or too bold reform of public finances and tax rates in 2006, we have managed to find agreement on most of the open issues and problems and complete the budget in the proposed form. The budget is today an even more important act of economic policy than it has been in any previous period. Today, Slovenia, as part of the monetary union, retains its economic sovereignty mainly in the field of fiscal policy. With fiscal policy, we have defended the stability of the financial sector when this was just before the collapse due to excessive debts over the past four years. With fiscal policy, we have driven demand along with other countries to show signs of economic recovery. Fiscal policy in a modern mode of management based on flexible technologies and also on telecommunications technologies, on globalisation, on globalisation, not only on supply but also on economic activity, is said to be a globalisation of businesses. Fiscal policy in these circumstances does not only lead to proper demand regulation, but also leads to measures in specific areas to strengthen the competitiveness of the national economies concerned, and therefore those national economies that have run an appropriate fiscal policy have also achieved the greatest impact. For us, there is no doubt that Finland, with its support for the development policy of Nokia and beyond, I think that one of the two members of the European Union who will not receive the European Commission's excessive deficit procedure, is a shining example. We all went to this deficit partly because of the crisis, partly because of measures to address this crisis. Fiscal policy an active, expansive fiscal policy has reached its goal here, coordinated for the first time on the whole of the Earth - and it worked! So in 2009, we prepared our first, then our second budget rebalancing, and these were our first budgets, the current government. The first rebalancing was an anti-crisis rebalancing, including all necessary measures to mitigate and prevent the continuation of the crisis we were already in the middle of. In order to further exacerbate the economic situation, more than originally announced by Umar experts, we also had to prepare a second balance very quickly, which was still counter-crisis, but also austerity, since lower revenues did not allow us expenditure at the level of the first rebalancing. It appears that another 2009 budget rebalancing will not be necessary to prepare and the deficit will remain in the planned dimensions. While our latest assessment shows that the revenue of the State budget in 2009 will be slightly lower, differently in terms of income categories, the income will even be slightly more favourable than expected, while at the same time lower budget expenditure, so that the deficit remains within the planned framework. This is evident from the documents before you and where an evaluation of the implementation of the 2009 budget is given. We have been preparing budgets for the next two years in a situation where forecasts of economic or macroeconomic indicators have changed considerably and very quickly. The Ministry of Finance does not have its own analytical service to assess and prepare macroeconomic forecasts. This is done by the Government Office, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. The Ministry of Finance has followed these forecasts and has taken them into account in the preparation of the two budgets ahead of you. If these forecasts or macroeconomic indicators change, we will take this into account in the supplementary draft budget or in the coming year we will rebalance, which is not surprising in such exceptional economic circumstances. You'd say that's what you'd expect. Like the last balance in 2009, the 2010 budget is still so developmental, counter-crisis and also austerity. The budget deficit in 2010 remains at the 2009 level, with a budget deficit of €1.8 billion or 5% of gross domestic product in 2010, a supplement to the overall public financial deficit, the 0.5% to 0.6% point of gross domestic product will represent a deficit in health and probably in local communities. In 2011, the deficit of % of gross domestic product will be lower and is expected to be 1.6 billion euros or 4.1% of gross domestic product. All of this is true, of course, taking into account the new estimates or forecasts of Umar in the last week before we put the budget proposal into the parliamentary debate. It is obvious that the budget deficit is too high, otherwise we are listening, and in fact we can agree that from a public financial point of view it is better if the budget deficit is as low as possible. You will probably agree, however, that in the economic crisis from the sources of the budget it is necessary to strengthen consumption, invest and also ensure a minimum social standard for the population to survive the crisis. Here, social transfers take on a significant part of the increase in expenditure, which is unexpected in terms of longer-term planning, leads to a deterioration of the public financial balance and are, by their nature, temporary. We expect that the improvement of the economic situation through fiscal policy measures, and then through the effects of development policy, which we are leading through the 2009 budget and also 2010 and 2011, will nevertheless occur when we can reduce this expenditure by 1% of the gross domestic product or more. Once again, we must recognise that the latest tax reform in 2006, which reduced the revenue of the state budget by about € 1.6 billion or 4.5% of the gross domestic product, should mention the abolition of the tax on paid wages, the reduction of the tax rates on income and the reduction of the tax rates on corporate income, was not followed by the reform of the expenditure side of the budget. On the contrary, further promises were made before the elections. It has been timed for the first time to compensate public servants' salaries over the possibility of funding the budget. Even if economic growth were relatively slow, this would worsen the fiscal balance, and secondly, some transfers, mainly related to demographic policy. While these transfers have been able to be eliminated, due to an extremely poor demographic image over the past decades, this could be a negative signal in a situation where this picture has started to improve slightly. That is how we remained on these measures. We are now working together with the implementation of the development change, the recovery of the consequences of the economic crisis and the recovery of the failed 2006 tax reform. Budget revenues in 2010 will amount to 8.6 billion euros or 23 almost 24% of GDP, of which 7 billion euros or 19% of the gross domestic tax revenue product. The bulk of tax revenues will fall under domestic taxes, goods and services, such as VAT, excise duties and other related taxes. This will be 5 billion, which means 14% of GDP. Recent revenues will be €460 million in 2010, and European funds will be received in 2010, according to our estimate, €1.1 billion or 3.2% of GDP. This is very optimistic, but this pumping also points to the fact that we need to implement a plan to draw on European funds in this financial perspective. The second year will be an extremely important year. We expect that the mistakes made by the Prime Minister in his performance, the mistakes made by the European drawing-up programme, will be eliminated and that we will be able to work more effectively here. In 2011, tax revenues will increase to 7.4 billion euros, of which, of course, the largest domestic taxes on goods and services will again be 5.2 billion euros, and tax revenues will be slightly lower in 2011 than in 2010, as they will no longer pay off the clearing debt. The EU will remain at around 2010 levels, with slightly more than billions of euros. Budget expenditure in 2010 will amount to € 10.5 billion or 28.8% of GDP, an integral part of the budget expenditure that is ahead of you will amount to €9 billion, that is 25% of GDP. The integral part is expenditure financed from domestic resources from the integrated budget and not from earmarked funds or from European funds; it is said, not from specific EU funds or funds. In 2010, expenditure related to earmarked funds will amount to €270 million, or a poor percentage of GDP, or 0.7%, and expenditure related to European projects or to the part we will receive from the European budget will amount to €1.1 billion or 3.2% of gross domestic product. On the expenditure side, this year's budget preparation was slightly different from what you have been used to in recent years. We have introduced a new classification: classification by development policies, development programmes and development sub-programmes. The Government has set up fourteen working groups whose task was to coordinate individual resources within one development policy. We can say that this year's attempt to prepare the budget in a different way than it has been so far, but there is still a lot to be done until the next preparation. In the following year, this is said to mean that the 2011 budget will need to be changed and a new budget for 2012 will be drawn up better, so that the celics identified in development policies will also be supported by indicators, it is said, by assessing the effects of individual development policies from previous years, and it will also be appropriate to structure state spending further. Thus, we are currently at the initial stage of the development budget, and in the coming years this methodology will have to be finalized in a way that will start to decrease some policies, while others will have to be significantly increased in the light of the results of past years. The structure of the budget is defined by the Public Finance Act, so the budget ahead of you is the same according to the structure of the budget of previous years, the difference being that the added structure of expenditure on development policies allows us to have a very substantive debate on the priorities and objectives of our country. For a different representation or composition of the budget, it will be necessary to amend the Public Finance Act and we will do so in the coming months. In addition, a slightly different approach to the preparation of the budget has been decided by the Government this year for another step or way of preparing the budget, which has decided that, notwithstanding the lack of legislation, it will comply with the fiscal rule. Thus, at its meeting in July, when it first spoke about the preparation of the 2010 and 2011 budget, the Government set the maximum amount of the integral part of the budget expenditure, i.e. expenditure not linked to the earmarked revenue or to the revenue from the European Union funds. If we wanted to respect the objective we set ourselves, very restrictive planning was needed for all purposes of budgetary spending. If integrated, these are domestic resources, let's look at or show by development policies, we can find that the planned resources in 2010 are falling in the face of the vast majority of policies, which is the logical consequence of the fiscal rule being introduced and thus the objective is that the integrated expenditure of the state budget will be approximately equal to the nominal level as the last balance in 2009. Of course, the state budget is not just an integral expenditure, but a full budget. And this overall expenditure, according to 2009 also increases in 2010 as a result of a more successful use of European funds and also an increase in earmarked funds. Two developmentally important policies are policies to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness and policies of higher education, science and technology and the information society. With both of this year's rebalancings, we have shown that this is an extremely important area for us and that we are aware that with the additional budgetary resources provided for this purpose we can help or we can make a developmental transition. For higher education, science and technology and the information society, funds are increasing by €63 million this year and they are as much as €228 million; in 2010, they will be up to €228 million more than they were realized in 2008. This shows that the Government is very aware of the importance of the development of science, technology, information from society and its links to the economy. Thus, the 2010 state budget proposal for higher education, science and technology provides the information society with a total of EUR 720 million. From the draft budget ahead of you, you can see that in 2010 the funds for promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness will increase by EUR 13 million compared to 2010 and will increase by as much as EUR 110 million in 2008. For entrepreneurship, competitiveness will thus be allocated EUR 400 million in 2010. If we show or look at both these two important policies together, more than a billion are being paid for the purpose of developmental conversion, which is €1.1 billion or 3.1% of gross domestic product. In 2008, EUR 777 million or 2.1% of gross domestic product were realised for this purpose, and in 2010, resources for development, science, technology, entrepreneurship and competitiveness and higher education increased by more than 330 million or 1% of gross domestic product in terms of the initial state of 2008, when development was not yet a priority. Transport and transport infrastructure policy is allocated €830 million or 8% of the total budget in the 2010 budget. In this way, the funding for this important segment, compared to this year, is increasing by up to EUR 253 million, mainly from the European Union funds and the specific funds to be created by CO2 charges or by additional resources to finance the modernisation of rail transport or rail infrastructure. If we look at investments as a whole as an important component of anti-crisis action, they will be implemented in 2009 at 1.7m euros or 4.6% of gross domestic product and will represent 16% of the total national budget. With an approximate multiplier of 2 this means that around 9% of gross domestic product is stimulated by public sector investments that encourage economic growth or prevent even deeper decline. Despite the difficult economic situation, we have found ourselves in which we have managed to find a compromise between saving, development and anti-crisis measures and social security. I would like to point out that no individual's rights already acquired are abolished. This seems very important to me, and I especially expose it. The fact is that the largest part of the budget lies in social security and health policies, totalling EUR 2.5 billion, representing 7.1% of gross domestic product or 25% of the total budget. Compared to 2009, funds for this purpose are increasing by 150 million euros. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have been able to ensure or agree that in 2010 we will spend more resources on public budget investments in healthcare projects. At the time of this year's rebalancing, we have been given a lot of criticism because we have not increased funds for this purpose. Our argument at the time was that there was also a special dedicated fund for investment investments in health infrastructure, at which time €63 million was available. With the draft budget for 2010 and 2011, we keep the promise we made when we adopt the balance and increase the resources for this sensitive and important area of our country. In particular, I would like to highlight a labour market policy where the funds for active and passive employment policies have increased already in 2009, as a result of counter-crisis measures, and these funds are earmarked for action on this segment in 2010 and will even increase by €63 million. Thus, the 2010 draft budget provides for a labour market policy of EUR 528 million or 1.5% of gross domestic product. In comparison, the realisation for this segment in 2008 was only €186 million, which is also due to the favourable economic conditions of that time. There is no need for State intervention in such a good economic situation. However, due to intervention measures on the labour market in 2010 and 2011, the funds are still falling to EUR 395 million or EUR 133 million less than in 2011. Thus, the 2011 draft budget no longer provides for funds to subsidise shorter working hours and partial reimbursement of remuneration. Looking at the economic structure of expenditure, the transfer of €1.4 billion or 3.7% of gross domestic product to individuals in 2010 will amount to more than €314 million in 2008 and €71 million in 2009. These transfers are, of course, divided by several policies, and most of them fall into social and health policies and labour market policies. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing: it's covered in intervention law. These are the salaries of public servants. The fact is that the last wage reform of the public sector, which has already been agreed upon and partially implemented, cannot be fully implemented in such economic times and conditions or within the planned deadlines. We expect that the social partners will find an understanding here and enable the full pay reform to be carried out during the period when the public financial resources will also allow it. In the event of a return to economic growth, this will be feasible at the end of the next year and in the event of a reversal, the partners will have to find appropriate solutions, perhaps also commitments to settle the funds in a later period. The government is working very hard with Minister Krebsov to reach agreement with the public sector unions. Maintaining social dialogue is a valuable and important lever of the national economy in both the difficult times we have experienced in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The 2010 budget and the 2011 budget that you are ahead of you are budgets that still reflect both the crisis and certain counter-crisis measures, measures to implement developmental conversion, as well as measures to save and limit public spending. The macroeconomic stability provided by the 2010 and 2011 budget proposals is a matter of stability, in this case guaranteed by an expansionary fiscal policy, and later by the exit strategy implemented by the fiscal rule, there is a fundamental commitment to the design and implementation of economic policies and is essential for long-term sustainable economic growth while maintaining long-term balanced public spending and income. This means that there will be a need to ensure in the coming years when the junkture returns, also a period of significant surplus in the budget, in which we will be able to repay one part of the debt that is now due. According to our assessment, with the 2010 and 2011 budgets, we have managed to find the right balance between the stabilisation, development and social dimension that the state budget is supposed to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-09-SDZ5-Izredna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the Budget Memorandum for 2010 and 2011 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. I thank the President of the Government, Borut Pahor and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, for his presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011. Members and Members of Parliament, Members' groups and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including 19 October 2009. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much.
