ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Eva Irgl and Joško Godec. I invited Mr Borut Pahor, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 1st item of the agenda, representatives of the State Council to the 13th item of the agenda, representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ombudsman and candidates for the Deputy Ombudsman to the 21st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 5 June 2009. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 7th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 3 p.m. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 2.03 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from the 36th Members of Parliament in the course of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the question of a ruling coalition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by the major ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Secretary-General of the Government or the Minister must submit a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr. Ivan Svetlik - Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Samuel Žbogar - Minister for Foreign Affairs. You have also received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four parliamentary questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question of the emissary will be asked first [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u3	Mr President, just before the meeting, I received an answer from the Secretary-General of the Government of Mr Squikel that he is not responsible for my question concerning the conduct of the Government or the specific minister, and I think that because I cannot ask the President of the Government myself the question that, even if necessary, the Secretary-General must answer. That's why I want to protest that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u4	Mr Jerovšek, we will be able to say another word about this when we come to the questions of Members and Members, but not now. So the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The first question will be asked by Jakob Presečnik, Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we firmly believe that the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities in the current form of municipalities, the division of municipalities, one of the most important decisions that has passed on the management of local communities to people living there and thus contributed to the more equitable development of Slovenia, in particular to the development of the basic infrastructure of the most underdeveloped areas of Slovenia. Despite the achievements of the municipalities so far, the differences between the development of individual regions are still too high due to over-centralisation. It is the duty of the State to enable all the people of Slovenia to be able to stay and develop in a sustainable manner. Too many regional differences are to blame for citizens and citizens living in less developed regions. We have been working for a long time in the Slovenian People's Party to establish the provinces as soon as possible. These will allow for additional financial decentralisation of the country, faster development of our society and greater prosperity for all citizens. The 2009 Normative Programme of Work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states in the chapter of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development that the Government should start the package of so-called "Provisional legislation" in early December. On the other hand, in the media, we find comments by more visible coalition representatives predicting that the province will probably not be present in this mandate. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: What about the landscape project? Are you going to stick to the deadlines outlined above in the government's work programme? Do you, like the Government, as a coalition, intend to establish provinces in this mandate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u7	Your Honor, the High Council. Good-bye. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already expressed its intention to continue the process of decentralisation of the country and the establishment of the provinces. This also reflects the adoption of the Government's normative programme for this year. We insist on this, although it is true that the hands are very short. Therefore, the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy immediately approached the necessary changes, activities in recent months. When I say it now, I think it's right at the beginning of my term. And in intensive cooperation with experts prepared the starting points for the further regionalisation of Slovenia. The active participation of the professional public, which I also thank on this occasion, is certainly crucial for the preparation of appropriate solutions in this very, very difficult area. An analysis has also been carried out in the previous mandate of the legislative proposals, as we want to build on what has already been done and, at the same time, respond more appropriately to the many questions that have been raised because the project has not been successfully completed, then and are still opening today. Due to the importance of this issue, I have also set up a Strategic Council for Decentralisation and Regionalisation. Let me assess that it really brings together almost all the experts and thank them in particular for their dedicated work in this world. In the light of the current difficult economic situation, at the first meeting of the world I highlighted some fundamental issues in finding the most appropriate solution for future regional division in Slovenia. First time. Is due to the global European and, consequently, the Slovenian economic and financial crisis a suitable time for decentralisation and regionalisation? I personally believe that this time is necessary and may even be necessary. If the answer is positive, in what form: Either as regionalisation to large and economically strong development regions or to the provinces. My personal response is to give priority to the development dimension of the organisation of the regions. And the third time. To what extent the regional level of local self-government is treated as equal to the principles of the region's interest. This is a question similar to that of the congregations, how many people identify with the province, as a second stage of local government. This element is also important. We must also answer the questions why, before the election time, the voters did not recognize in the establishment of the provinces a new development option, but see it primarily as a new additional cost, which we can also judge after a very poorly visited referendum before the time. The broad debate on the submission of provincial legislation in the previous mandate showed that there is no consensus on the number of provinces. There are also still some issues concerning jurisdiction, the tasks of the provinces and, in particular, the method of financing. We want this introduction to be financially neutral as far as possible, although none of us doubt that the first steps are likely to require a certain cost. If the landscapes were to lead to the developmental advantages for which we decide on them, then this investment cost would be appropriate for their implementation. At the first meeting of the Strategic Council, the position was clearly expressed that Slovenia needed the provinces, but such provinces, and this is now essential, which will have sufficient development capital to enable, ensure a development breakthrough, and allow for a sustainable improvement in the well-being and quality of life of people in a given province. Mr Member, this is what the Strategic Council has proposed, and I am waiting for its final decision tomorrow, when we meet again, for a more detailed study of the different models by which we would set up three to eight provinces in Slovenia. It is therefore tomorrow that the Strategic Council will meet at its 2nd meeting, address these professional positions, and this will be the basis for coordination with the political, professional and other interested public. After the first coordination, we will be able to assess the success of these coordinations and prepare draft legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. President, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much for the correct answer. I am absolutely convinced that it is particularly important which tasks will be delegated or which tasks will be carried out by the provinces and by what means, even with which people and so on, but this is already the second phase. And that, in my opinion, is how many of these provinces are going to be. However, many times, in public, the fact that the representatives of the coalition or those who can make such statements, in particular to speculate, I will use the word on purpose, and I do not mean in such a harsh sense, with the number of provinces. But very little is happening to think about what these provinces will do. According to my assessment, it is necessary to first clarify that, given that many of these interviews have taken place in various parts of Slovenia in the previous mandate, and, of course, the time will come when certain environments that have already made some institutions of the future region, the future landscape, will have to be poured out of pure wine and say, depending on the proposal and the proposal adopted, which will not be the province. That's gonna be a tougher step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u10	Complementary response. Please, Prime Minister, if you'd like to comment further.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u11	I just agree with the Member that this debate is likely to be very difficult. What is essential in my response is that, therefore, the Government is preparing expert and other studies, it is also preparing the first draft for coordination between the parliamentary groups in this High Council. We know that this requires a two-thirds majority. We can sense that we would have achieved it sooner if we had a large number of landscapes. However, we know that a large number of landscapes, especially because you rightly point out the issue of competence and tasks, can mean the opposite of what you are, or at least I want to put the development perspective at the forefront of this discussion. I think that as soon as we put a developmental perspective at the forefront, too many landscapes are deliberating. So, we will all be faced, this high house will eventually decide what is the right way, the right criterion when transferring tasks and competences to the provinces, in particular the financial aspect, and make a decision. The government will prepare it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The question of the emissary will be posed by a mag. Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u13	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The latest data from the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development are quite alarming. We are experiencing one of the biggest crises and worse for Slovenia, Slovenia is increasing the development backlog for those countries that are our role models and we want to compare ourselves with. At the annual level, the gross domestic product dropped by 8.5%, with a gross domestic product falling by 6.4%, according to the last quarter. Exports at the annual level, according to April, fell by 30%. Industrial production by 25%. The number of unemployed persons in the Republic of Slovenia increased by 25,000. This is also the worst data compared to the ones with which we had more than 3% of the points of higher economic growth in the past. This information is no surprise, given what measures this Parliament has taken on a proposal from the Government or what measures we have taken and which are being implemented. Instead of promoting economic activity, we prefer to artificially preserve unemployment. We have not faced effective measures to ease the credit crunch, and today the law adopted months ago or exactly December last year is not in force. There is no government guarantee for banks to service credit activities to the economy and so on. So, the opposition supported all the government's proposals in this, except for a rebalance that was obviously on the wrong footing, which, last but not least, is recognised by the government. Unlike the opposition, the coalition did not support any of the 68 measures recently proposed by the opposition that could contribute significantly to mitigating the consequences of the crisis. So now different measures are necessary, now in fact those most severe forms of anti-crisis measures are necessary, and neither are they, nor are they. There are a lot of packages that have never been announced, as we have never seen before. However, there are no implementations. The last meetings of the coalition in Brdo, with the exception of some general guidelines for long-term action, did not provide for any concrete measures to encourage economic activity. That's why I'm asking you, respectable: Will you finally take and implement any measures to promote economic activity that will help the Slovenian economy from these sad numbers? Do the key ministers who have so far been the creators of anti-crisis measures still have your confidence? Is the situation in the economic field of reflection not least the effectiveness of your government?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u15	Ministers and ministers in my Government, especially here, I think about the crisis group of ministers, enjoy my trust, work as best they can. We are in the midst of the most intensive preparation of measures. Those who are behind us have shown their good and their bad side, the measures that we will take in the second half of this year. Mr Member, let me answer your question very clearly and loudly: Ministers and ministers of my government, in particular the ministers of the crisis group, on which your question flies, enjoy my trust, do their best, not without mistakes, or without failings, there is also some action later, partly because they are coming to the National Assembly and they are having discussions in this high assembly, partly because we are coordinating them with the social partners. I don't regret one or the other. I think that Slovenia has so far carried out largely good measures and that this is also the first sign that this free fall of gross domestic product that we have witnessed in this quarter is slowly dying. Mr Member will know that the decline in economic activity started in the last quarter of last year. Nevertheless, I said in my next speech at that time, Mr Member, that the previous governments were at fault for the situation we were in, although I am sure that they had left behind some of the things that made it difficult for us to do. Even today, I do not intend to blame this crisis on the previous government. It is also right that the opposition understands the intensity of the crisis group of ministers and the entire government in dealing with this crisis. Here you have received the 60 measures that we have taken in this short time, some of which will only now be taken. Because the spasm does not give up because the credit activity is smaller than we would like to, we have prepared a final guarantee scheme for banks. As you know, she's had various additions here, she's also been in the State Council, and she's now being implemented. The Slovenian Export and Development Bank just today issued a tender for the first tender for the guarantee scheme on its websites, so that banks can start applying for credit transactions in the guarantee scheme. There's at least two more in preparation. In this way, the country will jointly distribute around €350 million in guarantees. This will allow for the normalisation of the credit activity for businesses, under normal conditions, which is a condition for the provision of additional capital and liquidity for businesses. Let me be clear in the second part of the answer about the government's next intentions. One of the reasons, Mr Member, that Slovenia was less prepared in this crisis than an open and small economy to the challenges of this recession was its long-term non-adaptation of structures. And I don't blame one government or another. For the last ten years, when the time was more or less the time of the merger, governments had not decided on unpopular measures. What will the government that I run alone do? In this most difficult situation, she decided to launch a social dialogue in July on structural adjustments in order to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy on the one hand, thereby ensuring solidarity on the other in the long term. In this dialogue, Madam Member, senior representatives of the opposition groups or parties will also be invited. There are other social partners. Finally, I would say: the measures we have taken have certainly prevented this decline in economic activity, which is also felt in Slovenia's two largest export partners - Germany and Italy; this is what the same data tells you about; these measures have certainly helped to ensure that this free fall in Slovenia is adopted and continued. I'm not saying there's a twist. We're gonna have to wait a little longer for that. Some of the indicators that point to calming may be to stabilising. It is expected that this stabilisation will continue until the end of this year. This is what experts say to me, who now agree more or less that after the biggest recession in the euro area, which we are also involved in, Slovenia is finally calming some worrying trends. Slowly but reliably calms them and, hopefully, also turns them up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u16	Please, do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Yes, Your Honor, it is. The crisis began to show its teeth in the last quarter of the past year, so the outgoing government put four laws on the table and sent them to Parliament. These were measures that could have caused a relatively vital economy and could, of course, have led to a mitigation of the consequences of the growing crisis. Only two of these measures were summarized by the new government, two not. Two key ones are those which would relieve the economy with lower taxes and which would also introduce tax reliefs for the 2008 tax year. Unfortunately, this has not happened; the crisis has deepened; economic activity has fallen sharply and instead of measures being targeted at how to stimulate economic activity, how to reduce payment deadlines, how to make more money available to the economy, including through more favourable loans, the state guarantee. To date, more than six months after that, none of these measures have come to life. None. The credit crunch doesn't go away. That's what the economists are talking about, and they probably told you at the last summit you had last week. In fact, this particular example of a guarantee scheme is a typical example of how one must not act counter-crisisly, how one legislation drags on and drags on and does not experience the end and the place. And the opposition has not initiated any cases against this law, precisely because it can live in practice. So, Prime Minister. You haven't answered my key questions: What measures, what new measures, crisis measures are envisaged by your government, which will in the short term bring this declining economic activity into green numbers, which will actually implement what you want, what we want economic activity to encourage people to actually have a job, but not that they will obviously have subsidies for the week?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u19	Mr Member, it is time to repeat the debate that this High Committee has had, I think, before we compared the Government's actions with the opposition's proposal. It allows me to say that we are now in the stage of implementing the third package of measures and that I hope for this package of measures that it will deliver results, not perhaps all that we expect, but from the scheme ahead. Secondly, I will get a budget rebalancing which is one of the basic instruments. This rebalancing will, in my opinion, be an intervention rebalancing attempt to keep the deficit in a way that will be financially sustainable, especially if the structural reforms that we will begin to discuss and, hopefully, introduce in the autumn will then be overtaken in the coming years. This will be the second balance, but we are preparing, as you know, for the autumn rebalancing or budget that will be programmed this time. We will show the development policy of this country by indicators of programme revenue and expenditure. We have no different opinions, the best social policy is a development policy, I was at the top of the coastal part of the economy today, I was at the top of the Slovenian part of the economy on Friday, and I know roughly what the economy expects, what it is satisfied with and what it is not. You have also heard what is not pleased with what you have proposed. As far as your proposals are concerned, we have accepted two and we have not accepted two. The problem is that our fiscal opportunity to respond to the crisis is small. See, other countries that are larger and have immediately decided at the beginning of the crisis that perhaps too slow with fiscal injections help the economy with lower taxation have not achieved the desired effects. And we must be careful that the deficit is not too great. So, we're at a very difficult time, when we have to be careful, for the first time, that the deficit won't be too high. I hope that we will remain at 5% with good development policy and are able to bring it to the Maastricht level for the next two, three years. We must be careful to help the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Here are the measures they're already taking. The scheme will provide an opportunity to release the credit crunch, if possible. We will try to stabilise the situation in the economy now, and today I also told the managers, I want them to do their best. It is not our job to interfere with their work, our job is to help them in so far as they give us the authority to do so, but in particular to create a macroeconomic environment in which they can compete. That's the government's intention, and we're not giving up on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u21	Honourable President of Parliament! I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a broader debate on this answer. Indeed, the President of the Government himself said that he wanted more time and opportunity for presentations, but at the same time I did not get the basic answers to the question of what those short-term measures of the new third package we will see in this Parliament and who will begin to receive if they start to take. The guarantee scheme, respected by the President of the Government, is a measure of the first package, since already the guarantee law adopted in December was actually aimed at this guarantee scheme. And we were all expecting a third package. It has never been presented to this Parliament. It was not possible to discuss this when we also wanted to discuss it on the Committee on the Economy. Dear President of the Government, I believe that both for us and for us, for the opposition, this topic of effective measures is crucial to the future of our country and that we must therefore take time in this House and discuss this, especially because we are falling, falling faster than others and the results and taking measures, in fact, some measures are not being implemented, measures, in particular, which were adopted before the time, have not been taken and nothing shows that they have been taken. It is more than imperative that new measures are also taken, which you have not presented. You've been talking about the balance, and we don't really know any other details through this rebalance, except for these crude gabarites. We don't know whether you're going to promote national consumption or how and where you're going to save and whatnot. Instead, they shake the Slovenian public and also the Government of affairs, which are completely unnecessary. You also stand up personally for some ministers who find it difficult to explain who is standing in a network of companies, co-owners of Singapore companies, Dutch companies. Why do these ministers hide their connections in these countries, which are considered to be some kind of tax and information oasis, where nothing can really be learned? Is it logical and reasonable for a normal entrepreneur in this country to hide behind Singaporean companies? And why does the minister have a business in the Netherlands? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u22	A respected colleague of mags. Vizjak, you're going far beyond the framework of justification [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u23	Honourable President of the National Assembly, these are questions that upset the Slovenian public and, of course, need an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u24	The President of the Government can't answer, just give me a reason, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u25	I would like to stress that these are issues for which the Government is wasting time instead of dealing with issues such as the future of economic development and the quality of life in this country. This is very important to me, and I think that it would also be important to consider measures, the public opinion of the assets of political officials, the manner in which the origin of this property is determined and, last but not least, the seizure of illegally acquired property. We should also talk about this in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. So you have clearly exceeded the business provision which allows you to announce a proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question, will decide tomorrow on 16 June 2009 in the framework of the votes. The question of emissary will be posed by the Victory of Jelinčič nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The Slovenian country is the world's most stepfather's country to Slovenian citizens. While we give all possible opportunities, opportunities, money and resources, and I don't know what else to do with foreigners, including criminals, which has proved to be recent in Maribor, when the bribery of certain public servants has even reached citizenship and beyond, one wonders where he lives. I'll tell you what. Buta Krasniqi was born in 1971 in Kosovo and came to Slovenia. She got, on her complaint and on request to receive compensation, I don't know why, a lot of money. The Maribor Court of Justice, or Judge Marko Čagran, awarded her this: for mental pain caused by the restriction of personal rights, the right to freedom of movement and accommodation requires 8,300 and so much, due to the fear of forced expulsion from the country of EUR 4,000, for property damage due to the inability to obtain social assistance EUR 48,000. In short, a total of EUR 64,000 and something else. In these years, the lady has not even learned Slovenian from what she is supposed to be here, because this does not seem important to her, because the Slovenians will see to it that she defends herself with her translator. On the other hand, I have here one decision given by the Constitutional Court, that Mrs Veronika Janc, who, as she says, as a beneficiary of the violent act, lasted 216 months, which means 18 years and three months and is compensated with a maximum of 8345.85 euros. In short, about 36 euros a month. One wonders, who is the master here in this country now? Are we ruled by foreigners? And possibly criminals, thieves, murderers, all of this has turned out, and what the Slovenian National Party says from the very beginning, that this rot has to be cleaned up, nothing happens. It's good that I don't get any complaints from any state authorities that I'm talking too loud about pigs going on inside Slovenian state space. I ask, Mr President: What will you do to prevent such a attitude from our country toward its own people and when?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u28	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u29	Your Honor! You'll understand that I can't make a specific decision, I don't want to comment. I would like to point out, however, that the competent courts decide on the claims for damages against the Republic of Slovenia, not the Government, which are independent, independent and here is the answer to your question about who is the master in these proceedings. Not the government, not the National Assembly, but the courts. The executive branch of the Authority, which is separate from the judicial branch, shall not interfere with these proceedings and shall assess the decision of the Judges, even when it comes to a decision on the compensation of the beneficiary who has been unjustifiably convicted, or whether he has been unduly deprived of his liberty, because this, honourable Member, would constitute a violation of the constitutional principles on the independence of judges and the principle of the division of power. You're talking about the different criteria of state institutions in compensation. I would like to point out in this reply that we could compare more similar matters with similar ones and not with different ones. It is therefore not a matter of different criteria if I have previously understood your intervention, but for different legal bases, different circumstances and different factual situations, the result of which cannot be equal to the amount of compensation in the current rules, because this would only result in so-called apparent justice. First of all, with regard to the criteria for compensation, say, deleted. The case-law in such compensation cases has not yet been established because, in the previous cases, as I have been informed, by the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the procedural objections to obsolescence have been put in place. It's not possible to talk about how to make a decision like that. It is important to point out that, as it is said, the courts decide on matters which are within their jurisdiction, not the executive branch of authority and not the legislative branch, unless we propose to the National Assembly, and this high house adopts the laws under which the courts must act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with the answer, because it's excuses. I don't know why the government doesn't then affix and draw up appropriate laws to change such a strange practice that judges are allowed everything, including accepting bribes. And no one is responsible for anything and will be punished for nothing. Don't go anywhere else. Look, the case of the death of Mr. Gregor Shilih in 1993. That's what the state awarded him. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u32	Kolga Jelinčič, complete reply [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u33	May I say, President?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u34	you can request [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u35	Are you deliberately taking my time again as you do?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u36	You can ask the President of the Government to complete the answer, not a new question. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u37	That's not a new question. If you don't understand this, listen. It's just that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u38	Mr. Jelinčič, keep an eye on the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u39	I keep an eye on the words, and so do you. The fact is that in this case Mr Šilih has received 9,000 euros in compensation for the death of a man, a young man. And then the state complained about it because they said there was too much money. And then the state gave him 7,000 euros, a little more, for that. Is that how you deal with your people?Oh, my God! And, Mr President of the National Assembly, you are ashamed of this matter and of this intervention. What can I do for you?Oh, my God! Should we not talk about what is happening in Slovenia, how people suffer? And strangers, how they get it all! Judges, however, have a permanent mandate, are untouchable, have no responsibility. And when the President of the Government said that we have virtual justice - no, the President of the Government, we have virtual statehood. And that's what's wrong. Instead of having a solid state, we don't have it, we blow it up, it's gone. And who's paying for it? Everyone else, those taxpayers who respect the laws, because in this country it's worth being a thief, a murderer, but most certainly a judge, because you can afford it all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u40	Mr. Jelinčič, I think you have severely exceeded the possibility of complementing the answer. At the same time, I would warn you that as a public person, however, you should be careful how you talk about other segments. Of course, it is your business and responsibility as to how others will understand you. The President of the Government may reply, but he does not have to respond to a specific case because decisions on specific cases cannot be judged in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u41	Your Honor! First of all, let me say my personal position as Prime Minister of the Government on the debate and creative dispute in the National Assembly. I think if you go anywhere, then let this creative argument be here, in this house. You know my opinion when I was a Member and when I was President of the National Assembly. In doing so, of course, I wish that no one, nor I, would insult others with their views. I didn't say anything about your intervention. That's what I'm saying in general. Another time. We have a constitution and we have laws. We're all the same before the law. If you believe that either constitutional or legal changes are necessary, you have, Mr Member, like everyone else here the option and the right to propose such changes. I just got off the phone with the Justice Minister. If the Justice Minister and the Government assess that changes are needed to ensure that we have a system that is even better, then we will certainly take advantage of this option. We have one of those right now. We need to respect him. If we assess the need for new criteria, new legal standards, we will also propose them, either as constitutional changes or through laws. However, the courts are independent and must make decisions under these legal rules and we must not interfere with their decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u42	Please, procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u43	May I first explain why I should propose a procedural decision? Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u44	You can propose a decision first or vice versa.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u45	Well, I'm gonna go first so you don't stop this. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a debate on this issue, as you and many others, Mr President of the National Assembly, do not allow this matter to be discussed here. Anything can happen in Slovenia. All things are allowed to some ministers. Nothing is allowed to an ordinary man. The criminal is allowed everything, nothing is allowed to the honest man. Those who avoid paying taxes and fraud are allowed all those who pay taxes have no rights, etc. There is certainly a need to talk about constitutional changes, as Mr President of the Government has said. Of course! And the Slovenian National Party has been talking for more than a decade about the need for judges to be deprived of a permanent mandate and that they should be given some responsibility, including criminal and financial responsibility, on the basis of the example of German and Austrian judges. Nothing happens to us, of course, because the judge only works in Slovenia in the Balkans, even on that Balkan scale: "Kadia sued, Kadia sued" - the judge first sued and then tried, although I think you all understood. When are we gonna do this? The easiest thing to say is, the judiciary is separate and we can't touch it. That's true, but we write the laws. And if someone doesn't want to turn laws into good people, but does them and prepares them for a well-defined circle of thieves, criminals, thieves and the like, then I ask you nicely, then let's end the country and start shooting. Looks like we're gonna have to start defending our lives from certain state interventions. That's what I'm afraid of. I'm really afraid of that. But it looks like it's all going this way. Therefore, Mr President, allow at least the debate in the National Assembly and please put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u46	So, you have proposed that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the government's response to your question. Of course, we will do this tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Definitely. Here we go, the question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem - Parliamentary Group Zares. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u47	Nice hello to you all! Dear Mr. President of the Government! We recently adopted the Law on the Coexistence of Genetically Modified Plants with the Other Agricultural Plants in the National Assembly with a large majority. The law has the word "coexistence" in the title, which at first sight suggests that we open doors in Slovenia to genetically modified plants, so there are certain concerns and objections to the law both in the professional and in the lay public. The fact is that the law will for the first time regulate any restrictions on the cultivation of genetically modified plants, while so far anyone and anywhere could plant these plants. Also in Zares, where, I emphasise, we oppose the cultivation of genetically modified plants, we are confident, as are most NGOs, that we have managed to harmonise with the European Union so restrictive and restrictive that genetically modified plants will not be able to grow in Slovenia. The law is one of the most restrictive in the European Community, as it requires written consent from neighbouring owners and producers. We also hope that, according to the Minister's assurances in Slovenia, there will be sufficient safeguards in the sub-laws. That's not far enough. We want Slovenia to join countries where the cultivation of genetically modified plants is temporarily prohibited. We can do this by enforcing a security reserve. Such countries are growing in Europe: Austria, Hungary, France. This security reservation was recently announced by Germany. The public in Slovenia is not fond of these plants. Also 120 Slovene municipalities were spoken against the cultivation of genetically modified plants. The profession is also highly divided in terms of impacts on human health and the environment. Nor is this in line with the guidelines for increased production of organic food, not least with our tradition. Therefore, we have already sent an initiative to the competent ministries in March to ensure everything and to initiate appropriate measures as soon as possible in order for the Government to implement the Security Restraint Decision adopted by the Council of Europe Directive. This is what we have specifically called the carrier, Minister Erjavec. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister, Will the government begin to prepare suitable bases? When will it begin the procedures for the enforcement of the security reservation, at least temporarily achieving a ban on the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Slovenia! Minister Pogačnik suggested this option by proposing that we prepare a so-called 'Meta Scientific Study' in which we could combine all the studies that have been published so far in the world and with us who are talking about the danger of genetically modified plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u49	Your Honor. As you yourself mentioned, the National Assembly this year adopted the Law on the Coexistence of Genetically Modified Plants with Other Agricultural Plants on 21 May. By implementing this law, Slovenia has protected its territory from uncontrolled production in the European Union of authorised genetically modified plants. Until we adopt two sub-legislative acts in this area, no genetically modified plant can be produced in Slovenia, nor in the European Union the authorised species of genetically modified maize called MON810. Therefore, the adoption of the law was essential for the protection of Slovenia and also our response to the legitimate concern of the Slovenian public. Under the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must, on the basis of the law adopted, prepare within nine months and therefore the Ministry, Minister Pogačnik, continues with the envisaged procedures for the preparation and adoption of these acts. These regulations will define detailed technical measures to ensure co-existence, such as protection belts and compensation, if the spread and presence of these organisms in crops where this is not allowed, such as organic ones. All the regulations that will be drawn up on the basis of this law must, as you know, also be given an opinion by the European Commission. Some Member States of the European Union have indeed accepted security reservations. A safety reservation shall be accepted for a specific genetically modified organism and not in general. In order to adopt a security reservation, honourable Member, a Member State needs scientifically substantiated evidence that a single genetically modified organism is harmful to humans, animals and the environment. These evidence must then be submitted to the European Commission and to the other Member States, the European Commission will continue to forward it to the European Food Safety Authority, which will then, if I am well informed, assess the risk. So far, the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority has always been negative with regard to the enforcement of safety concerns. For example, neighbouring Austria submitted several scientific findings but lost at two stages of the Court of Justice of the European Community. The legal basis for the adoption of the security reservation you are asking is the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. This allows such a security reservation to be accepted or rejected on the basis of new or additional information and scientific knowledge affecting the risk assessment or re-assessment of existing information. There are also several programmes in the Republic of Slovenia where scientists can report research projects in this field. So let me conclude, Madam Member, in summary. The adoption at the beginning of this law means, in our view, a very large and important step in protecting and regulating the production of genetically modified plants in Slovenia. He was also greeted in neighbouring Austria. In view of the fact that, pending the adoption of the relevant sub-laws in Slovenia, there is a complete ban on the cultivation of genetically modified plants and that there is no interest among processors in the production of MON810 maize, I estimate that there is no need for the adoption of a security reservation at this time. Further, honourable Member, the High Council, we will closely monitor developments and in particular the progress of scientific research in this area, both at home and abroad. If, in the future, based on these assessments, we consider that the adoption of a security reservation is necessary, we will initiate appropriate activities to justify it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u50	I ask you to complete your answer, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President. We certainly agree on the objectives, purposes and what we have achieved with regard to this law. I think there's a whole series of arguments that require a critical consideration of what's going on in the area of genetically modified plants. Finally, the fact that Slovenia should also take sides with those countries that express scepticism and also in some way rush into these things slowly. Problems have also arisen in the European Food Safety Authority. Two scientists recently began to speak more and more loudly about the fact that everything was wrong with genetically modified plants. And for the first time, these stories opened up. More and more skeptics are even in America, in the country where this is the most. And there is an increasing awareness of this and, on the other hand, there are also silenced and hidden truths about the effects and consequences of the use of genetically modified plants. Last but not least, the European Commission has concluded that by September countries must prepare not only scientific analyses, but also for the first time the social economic aspects of introducing genetically modified plants. And since there are no such studies in Slovenia, I wonder: On what basis are we actually going to answer these questions in Slovenia? I certainly believe that it is absolutely necessary not to reject but the primacy of Slovenia's taking up and preparing a security reservation, because there is increasing argument that there is still a need for a lot of healthy scepticism and there is no need for us to take sides with those countries; which, once again, I mention: Germany, France, Hungary, Austria, Luxembourg and Greece; which have already done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u52	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u53	Madam Members, I agree with you mainly with regard to the report on your intervention today. I would like to tell you that Minister Pogačnik and other competent ministers, as far as an interdisciplinary issue is concerned, devote themselves to this dilemma, for example, a lot of tolerance. We talk more about this in the government than the public believes that we are dealing with this issue. Studies are under way. If we assess that security reservations are necessary, we will also intervene in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 6th meeting of the assembly. Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič will answer France Tsukjat's question on measures to stabilise Slovenian health. Please, Minister Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u55	I'm sorry, Your Honor, I've been counting on the question to be posed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u56	The question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u57	Yeah, I got a question ahead of me. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health are seriously preparing for reform in the health system, with one basic objective of keeping our citizens' health care at this crisis level in 2008 and increasing it in the coming years. In order to maintain the current scope of healthcare this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken some important measures. First Action: A general agreement has already been adopted at the beginning of this year, allowing all health care providers in Slovenia to sign 1,800 contracts and be informed of the extent and scope of the resources they have at their disposal and what programme they will be able to implement. Serious discussions were held in the Government and the Institute to reduce certain costs, particularly in the field of lowering the prices of medicines and also in the field of lowering certain prices of health services. On the basis of these measures, I would like to tell you that we are counting and I am sure that this year's programme would be carried out to the same extent as it was last year, given that the institution has a reserve of € 130 million created in 2005, 2006 and 2007. Due to the absence of a difference, we will implement measures taken by the institution or by the Government in the arbitration. Furthermore, in the Ministry we are preparing very serious measures and interventions for more rational spending and investment management. Here are some problems and open problems, but I hope that we will address and reduce costs in this segment through new calls and a new way. You probably know that the government has also adopted a decision in the context of the first rebalancing which covers the loss in the three most critical hospitals in Slovenia. These are unpaid accounts of recent periods, and no one has solved this problem yet. On the basis of the audits carried out at Murska Sobota, Novo mesto and Izola hospitals, we have decided that the Government will cover losses in these three hospitals within the framework of its constitutional rights. Dr. Tuckati, personally, if I may say so myself, I was puzzled by some of the things we found, especially about Isola, especially in Isola, and the difficult circumstances in which this hospital is. For this year, what is crucial is your question, we are preparing for a long-term orientation of new legislation. Doctor, you know very well that the last legislation was passed in 1992, with some additions. The Ministry is 10. 6. give public consideration to the new Health Act, which lays new groundwork and new foundations for a more rational organisation of health institutions and a specific requirement concerning the quality and responsibility of work. In the final phase, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is being drawn up. I am counting on putting it into first reading this month to allow the Government to come into Parliament's procedure in the fall with both new laws to give a new basis for the development of the health care of our citizens. The issues that we are proposing are not simple. We have had our first debate in the parliamentary groups in recent times. The estimates are, for once, that we have been very able to do so in these proposals, and I think that in the public debate we should have a supplement so that the laws are the best, the most rational, so as to maintain solidarity with people, and that we can ensure the best possible health care and health insurance of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u58	Please supplement your question or answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you for that answer, which, of course, did not satisfy me. You have mentioned some things that should already have an effect on the resolution of financial problems in which Slovenian health care is located. You mentioned that this year the government will not tell you the number, but I will tell you, 7.2 million from the budget for three hospitals to reduce the negative balance of this hospital and all hospitals in Slovenia are in a negative balance of 56.6 million. That's more than seven times that. I don't know what effect that's gonna have. Then the deficit forecasted months ago in Slovenian health care this year is 128 million, next year 133 million, in 2011 - 270 million, the sum total in 2011 is 531 million deficits in Slovenian health care, which means total collapse. And of course, given that this was months ago, but we now know that negative economic growth is once more greater than it was predicted at the time, I am afraid that these small measures you are predicting will by no means be sufficient. And let me say that in your responses and in all the programme, the Health Act cannot solve this global financial problem of health care, financing of health care and health insurance, as well as the Health and Health Insurance Act, you know this, and that somewhere else mechanisms need to be put in place to put the financial stability of Slovenian health in the long term. I ask: Where are those global principles? Do you know them or can you tell them? I'm asking for your answer. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u60	Please. Do you want to answer? Minister Borut Miklavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u61	Dear Dr. Tuck. 7.2 million was the government's decision to cover the losses. It is true, however, to take into account the fact that, due to imprudent changes and arrangements in the public wage system in December last year, a large amount of funds was indicated to all operators by the fact that, for the first time in history, health-care organisations have covered the loss back and paid to the State under the rules adopted, an additional 15.6 million profits tax. Thus, the picture in the executive health organisations is not so critical. If we're going to look at the deposit account, then health care providers today also have large amounts in deposit accounts. This is liquidity in Slovenian hospitals, with the exception of the biggest liquidity problems in Izola, New Town and Murski Sobota. Both laws - Dr. Cukjat, you are a great expert - will definitely help to remedy the matter. The Health Activity Act plans new organisation, rationality in the system, and the Health and Health Insurance Act is the one that talks about contributions and rights. I think that both laws will regulate the issue that we will have a sustainable financial system in the field of health and that we will be able to provide the population with the same level of health services as was the case in 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Cuckoo. Please, if you turn it off, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you. Well, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that the Minister's reply be discussed and that the National Assembly then votes on it. I would only say this last, that the Health and Health Insurance Act does not provide for a contribution rate, this is laid down by tax legislation, and also on rights does not provide for a law, globally already, but specifically the Health Insurance Office with its rules of compulsory health insurance, for which the Minister agrees. I have to say, in recent months, in May, it's been the day that Austria is doing this. They also predict, otherwise - they have 9 times the gross income of Slovenia - over one billion losses. And what's going on out there? There's a big "hallo" there, actually, all the structures are mobilized. Global solutions are being sought, not in the field of legislative change and so on, global solutions - both with insurance companies and with professional services, institutions, medical clinics and the like. There, indeed, the government has committed an immediate 45 million to the rehabilitation of some health insurance companies - there are more - 'but it has conditioned that health insurance companies must immediately establish, by the end of June, a serious, long-term, five-year health rehabilitation programme. Because the whole of Europe is facing these problems as Slovenia is, even more so, with the population's age growing, "baby boom" from postwar years now passes to the age of 70, 80. And you know well that an 80-year-old costs health care eight times more than, say, a 30-year-old - you know that! - and that there is a longer-term problem with funding sources. With us, we do not see this approach. The Health Activity Act, which you have forwarded to the public and which can be obtained on the website, does not say anything and I do not see these solutions in it. However, it is such an important matter, for danger, indeed, the collapse of health care, that it is very necessary for the National Assembly to seriously discuss this issue. This would also be a call to the government and the ministry to take a serious approach to this issue and to find serious answers that will "drink water" and will not be just one that would mean some comforting or mitigating habit that we want to calm down with. Mr Minister, fear is justified, and I also propose and believe that the National Assembly will listen to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Francet Tsukjati to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, in a vote of 16 June 2009. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar is absent, so he will not be able to answer the question of Milenk Ziherl and Mira Petk. They will communicate if you want a written reply, otherwise it will be oral next time. Culture Minister Majda Širca Ravnikar will answer Alexander Zorn's question on the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u65	The honourable Member and everyone else present! Your question is whether we believe in the Ministry or what measures should be taken in relation to the alleged sub-financing of RTV Slovenia in relation to cultural and cultural programmes. It was also understandable that some mistrust was expressed to all those who expressed concern for the fate of RTV Slovenia's cultural and artistic programme, and they also made this public. This is said to be the National Council for Culture, which called on the National Assembly and the Government to ensure that RTV Slovenia fulfils its mission and complies with its legislation, with its mission and with all its capacities to implement as many cultural shows as possible, because it has a special place that is not comparable to commercial programmes. Individuals within the National Council also spoke here. We know, Mr Jančar also publicly called and raided RTV Slovenia and called for greater care. Here was a special call from some members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, here there were numerous calls, which also resulted in more than a six-hour debate within the National Assembly, and this debate is obviously not yet over and would like to continue. I absolutely agree with those invited or those who have called for television to maintain its mission, that is to say, to provide a specific and certain share of cultural shows. It is true, however, that this does not work primarily in the proportion required by law. This is, however, the publication of a certain quarter share or percentage, in the law of the guaranteed share in the production of audiovisual content by independent producers. This is also acknowledged by the Director himself, and this is recognised by the world itself, which has addressed this issue at numerous meetings, lastly at the 35th regular meeting, where it is said that the volume of quotas required by law, own production and own works production is ensured, but I quote, "except for audiovisual parts of Slovenian independent production, which says that it should cover a quarter of production, but does not achieve it, but will endeavour to achieve it." The problem is that this information in the public is blurry, nowhere clear, but the programming world has said, he himself admitted that they would have to do more because in the discussion they said that there was not always a real strategy for independent producers in the past, but that it is not, and that more than ten percent should be achieved in the past than we read that there should be now on television. Why am I stressing this particular proportion? As a result of the proportion of the production of independent producers in the field of audiovisual media: for the first time, it could not be ensured because the tenders on RTV did not go out or were not satisfactorily carried out. Secondly, because the Ministry of Culture itself did not carry out a call in the past at the level prescribed by the law and, as we have even adopted in the previous House, which was also agreed by the writer of the law, Mr Grims. This is said to be the provision of 40 million tolars for this production at the time. However, tenders were not provided in one third, which now means that the share of audiovisual production will certainly be better represented on RTV Slovenia in the future. But I do believe I haven't answered everything you're about to ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Zorn's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you answered an excellent question that I did not ask you. It was such a question - where were all those cultural content that was missing and which was why we first had a cultural committee and then a plenary debate, and so on for hours and hours we discussed how cultural content was missing, and at the same time we received data from the television management, which were measured and measurable, because they had instruments for it and they told us that these cultural content existed briefly and little. However, we are on the basis of the lack of cultural content, even if you have increased your subscription and that is by 10%. And since this is the case for all households in the country, it is really very, very much money. I hope you've already counted the cultural content you've been missing. Not only what you have just mentioned, and thus justified the multi-annual debate and at the same time the increase in the subscription. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u69	After that debate in the National Assembly, which, as you know, lasted hours and hours, the debate for some was not enough. That is how we had it, and some of your fellow Members, respected by Mr Zorn, have also been on another ommis, which has dealt with the same issue here. Even though you said yourself that we're dealing with this television shit when we're supposed to be dealing with economic problems. But, as I can see, there's never enough of this discussion about RTV content. At this omija, which followed the debate in the National Assembly, and this omija lasted several hours, it was said by the director of Radio RTV Slovenia that TV has a lot of money, that it has 58 million euros in deposits, these well-known deposits in Eutelsat; that it has 58 million euros, after - if you remember, some of you were there, Mr Friday, Mr Jerovšek - we asked why it was then necessary to raise the euro by 1 and burden the households. This question will obviously need an answer, but we certainly have some ministers on the table already demanding that the country in the RTV Slovenia budget give more money, and that is for wages; but this is another question. Where are these contents? That's what the Program Council has to say. The Programme Council, as well as the National Council for Culture, which said that these content is not that cultural broadcasts and broadcasts of the artistic department disappear from "prime time" to be replaced by commercial broadcasts. In this they found that it is not just about quantity - literally, it is not my thinking, I have frozen thinking, critical thinking and evaluating shows about culture, if this could ever be my profession. Now that I'm the Minister, I'm not the one to say it, others have said it. It's not just a question of quantity, it's also a question of quality, and I'm not going to comment on that. But because it has not been said only once and only by the National Council, but also by others who demand support for the concepts of public television - if I quote Mr Jančar - then it means that something is not right. If you think it's okay, and if the Software Council responds to you that way, if any other world responds to you that way, and if they tell you that they don't have to, I'll say under the terms, "crazy" with commercial television like, say, even on information programs, then it'll be good for public television. I wish it were good, and then the discussion would be less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u71	Dear Minister! Again, you answered something I didn't ask, I'm sorry. At the same time, you discovered something else, which is frantically: there was enough money on TV, and we started off, on your proposal, by increasing the subscription, if it was too little. We're gonna have to do something. At the same time, no one talks about the quality or inquality of cultural shows, but we talk about quantity. And for this quantity you've got an answer that's enough. It is said that, according to two criteria, the debate was neither justified nor justified by the fact that you increased the subscription. But since we've wasted hours and hours, I'm sorry, dear colleagues, I certainly don't want to reopen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u72	Well, you've abused the rules of procedure. You did not propose to hold a debate on the Minister's response to the question. You didn't do it, and I'd ask you not to use it anymore. That's it for now. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, you can't do that, Madam Secretary. Minister of Environment and Space Karel Viktor Erjavec will answer Sam Bevk's question regarding the implementation of the Government's Regulation on Limit Values for Light Pollution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u73	All the nice greetings, especially the Member who asked the question. It is the implementation of the Regulation on maximum values for light pollution of the environment. I must say that Slovenia was problematic from this point of view, so we have also adopted a form that would limit the light pollution of the environment. Let me say that the Environment and Space Inspectorate is the competent authority to monitor the implementation of this Regulation, by virtue of this Regulation, it is laid down what measures are being taken to protect the nature, living quarters and to protect people against the harmful effects of light, the same applies to animals. Let me say that during December 2008 - April 2009, the Inspectorate carried out an action to control the implementation of the requirements of this Regulation. In particular, the aim was to verify the implementation of the ban on light beams of facade lighting and also to verify the implementation of the adjustment of existing lighting lamps. I can say that sixty-six inspections have been carried out, of which nineteen measures have been taken to prohibit the use of light sources. However, I must say that, for the most part, the inspectors followed the measures imposed by the inspection. However, I must say that in accordance with the regulation, the Ministry of the Environment will also draw up an appropriate regulation, namely, the Regulation on First Measurements and Monitoring of Light Pollution, under the Government's programme, this regulation will be adopted by the end of this year, which is expected to take place in September this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I ask you to complete your answer, please, Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr President, for the words of the House of Respect. I thank Minister of the Environment, Mr Erjavac, for the answer to my question. It is true, almost two years ago, that a regulation on limit values for light pollution was adopted, and a real regulation is being adopted at government level. This is not a law adopted by the National Assembly, but it is true that it applies to the whole country. But it took us ten years from my first initiative, in 1997, when Dr. Pavel Gantar was Minister of the Environment, and by 2007 it had been ten years before we had adopted this regulation on the prevention of light pollution, because there had been a great deal of resistance to this regulation. The aim was to control public lighting, to limit public lighting and to prohibit or restrict the use of strong-directed light sources. It is good that the implementation of this Regulation should be monitored from year to year and also complemented by these analyses of certain elements of this Regulation. Thus, for example, in the last period we have seen that advertising panels cover the cultural landscape in Slovenia. There are many of these boards, which are placed practically in all places; also on intersections, on buildings such as TR3, which illuminate thousands of apartments in Ljubljana at night. Thus, in this segment of advertising boards, which are still overlighted in the wrong places at night, this regulation may be supplemented and amended to prohibit any advertising outside the settlements and at intersections and traffic signs, which is what is also happening. Please consider this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much. So I don't think the answer is necessary. It was a proposal day. Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Križanič will answer the question of the Council of Likar as regards the Mutual Health Insurance Company, the VAT. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. It is therefore a question of which matters of loss of mutual insurance and possible coverage of these losses by increased premiums. We've prepared a rather in-depth expert response. With regard to the claim in the Member State's question on which the mutual insurance undertaking is supposed to operate with a loss, let us explain that Article 171 of the Insurance Act provides that an insurance undertaking in the daily press or in the professional financial press, which occurs at least once a week, publishes a summary of the revised annual report with the opinion of the auditor and the opinion of the authorised actor within eight days of its adoption, but no later than eight months after the calendar year. In this regard, we state that the mutual health insurance company has not yet published the revised annual report for 2008. Insurance supervision shall be carried out by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which shall be competent to collect and process information on the facts and circumstances relevant to the performance of its tasks and responsibilities laid down by the Insurance Act. The data may only be transmitted by the Insurance Supervisory Agency to the Ministry of Finance if they are needed for the preparation of regulations, the management of statistics or the management of a strategy in the field of the financial system and the tax system. Where it is subject to a duty, the Ministry of Finance shall be subject to an obligation to protect confidential data at least to the extent laid down in Article 260(1) of the Insurance Act. By no means should we have previously published the results of individual insurance companies. With regard to the recent amendments to the Insurance Act, which is referred to in the sent question, I would like to clarify the following. In accordance with Article 40 of the European Directives, the Act provides that an insurance undertaking which has obtained a licence to carry out secured transactions may only carry out one and two types of insurance, namely, mutual health insurance undertakings, including life insurance companies. This case also applies to the expansion of the activities of the Mutual. Thus, the Mutual can in fact extend to life insurance according to the business already carried out. The last amendment to the Insurance Act amends Article 49, which regulates the use of the company’s annual profit for mutual insurance. The Insurance Act already provided, prior to the amendment of Article 49, that in the annual report, mutual insurance profits may be distributed to members or transferred to the following financial year to an extent not necessary for the creation of, inter alia, others by the statute of certain reserves. These are the spares at home. The Insurance Act does not provide that a mutual insurance undertaking should have such reserves, it is stated that it is different with the statutes of the specified reserves, which is why the mutual insurance assembly decides to do so. Similarly, the Insurance Act does not specify which type of mutual insurance may be regulated in its Statute by the Statute of Certain Reserves. More can be addressed, the issue is tax liability in this regard. Therefore, the mutual insurance undertaking may, after an arrangement which was in force before the last amendment of the Insurance Act, and also now, provide for others, with the statute of a specific reserve, for example: statutory reserves, other reserves of profit and the purpose of their application. Since the purpose of the use of other reserves under the Statute of certain reserves is not prescribed by law, the mutual insurance undertaking in the Statute may have provided that such reserves are also used to provide capital in the case of the management of secured transactions in other insurance types for which it is authorised, for example, in life insurance. The last amendment to Article 49 of the Insurance Act does not extend the possibility of using others, with the statute of certain reserves, but merely defines their application more clearly. And that's it. Other questions. For example, if a loss occurred, who would be responsible for paying this loss? Then it's the next one. The Ministry of Finance is not competent to intervene in the operations of individual insurance companies and therefore cannot comment on issues relating to the alleged loss in the operation of the Mutual. Hereinafter, I can briefly summarize the arrangements laid down in the Insurance Act for such cases. Article 44a of the Insurance Act provides that the mutual insurance company’s statutes may provide that mutual insurance undertakings’ assets are also taken into account in the accounts of members of the mutual insurance company - it is said to have been invested in these companies. However, Article 46 of this Law provides that the statute of the mutual insurance undertaking must lay down the conditions and means of providing the means of providing for the operation of this mutual insurance undertaking. The means necessary for the operation of a mutual insurance company in a given year shall be covered by predetermined contributions from members. The Statute must determine whether and to what extent members are obliged to pay ex-post payments if the remaining mutual insurance company funds are not sufficient. The Statute may provide, in addition to or in addition to subsequent payments, that the insurance undertaking’s obligations be reduced if the mutual insurance company’s assets are not sufficient to cover losses, and in this case may also provide for recapitalisation. Thus, it is certainly not necessary for members to have to pay extra even if there is a loss. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mr. Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, too, Dr. Križanič, for the answer. However, from this longer answer is - maybe I will just repeat this question briefly, and perhaps if we could briefly answer it because it was a bit of a complicated answer. That is to say, about losing or doing business Mutually for losing, I have noticed, if I am not mistaken, in electronic media, in an article. In January 2009, this is supposed to be a loss transaction, then not even in February - but, hypothetically, I ask. Is it possible, in the event of loss, that this loss is borne by us, the insured or members of the Mutual and from which resources? Now: Is this compulsory, or profit, as prescribed by the law, or is this possible from any other means? Moreover, it does not seem fair to me that we pay insurance or members through a higher insurance premium from possible wrong management decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u80	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. According to the information I have, the insurance company has been successful in the past and has also created a whole range of reserves in this business. In addition to those which have been prescribed by law, some additional reserves, which have been prepared as a kind of reserve fund, in the case of impaired business. If the deterioration occurs, these reserves may be used first, the premium may subsequently be raised if it turns out that current tides do not cover any more rising costs. So, in this case, the insurance companies are in advance covering the costs for the future. In some exceptional cases of damage or large unexpected costs, the Mutual Insurance Office must also act by appropriate recapitalisation. It is very likely that it will not decide to charge membership for the payback, but will take appropriate measures on the capital market. Either directly by recapitalisation or by issuing subordinated instruments. Reciprocal insurance undertakings shall be subject in particular to the issuance of subordinated instruments, which shall be reimbursed at the time when the reserves return. This is the capitalisation of certain credit relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. I would like to inform you that Branko Marinič has announced the question to the Secretary-General of the Government of Mags. Milan Cvikl, who informed us in writing that he was not competent to answer this question, is therefore not in the order of order to ask the questions sent. The Secretary-General of the Government has also informed us that he is not responsible for answering the question of Mr Jerovška, who addressed his oral question to two addressees - of course, the Minister for Education and Sport will answer this question. Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the rest of you are present! According to the information now known, the theft or possible location of weapons from the warehouse of the Directorate of Protection and Rescue was approximately 15 to 20 kilometres from the border with the neighbouring country of Italy, where the G8 meeting will take place in July. Italy is reintroducing tighter border controls at all borders between Italy and neighbouring countries, i.e. Slovenia. I ask: Did the event on polygon 208 - according to your information, Madam Minister - have any impact on the reintroduction of temporary border control in Italy? In any case, even if it does not affect, it is a great embarrassment for Slovenia, and also for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On your part, it was explained that it was not yet known whether the weapons had actually been removed or whether even the records were incomplete. It is even worse if it turns out that records of the quantity and type of weapons in the warehouse are inaccurate and inadequate. So that means we don't know where we have the weapons, what kind of weapons we have and how many. Of course, we are talking about unexploded killings that were intended for destruction - that there will be no mistake as to the weapons we are talking about, but that such weapons are also in the hands of criminals or terrorists, is extremely dangerous. We're talking about hand grenades and armored ambrust and RPG22 launchers, and that's certainly not a joke. It was not until fourteen days after the crime was committed that the Defence Committee was responsible for the burglary and theft. That's why I'm interested. Has the break-in and theft been reported to partner security intelligence services in other countries? First of all, when did this happen? Immediately or only after fourteen days - then, as informed by the Defence Committee? The security of the warehouse has so far been carried out by the G7 security company. I will not say whose property this company belongs to, but I ask: How is it that now all the facilities in which unexploded killings are located protect the Slovenian Army? I understand that this is a reaction to an event, but I wonder: Will such protection by the Slovenian Army remain a practice or is it just a temporary solution? We have a feeling that the leadership of the Slovenian Army is not excited about your action, because, last but not least, the Slovenian Army has nothing to do with this matter. It's not the weapons of the Slovenian Army. How do you explain at the Ministry of Defence the inadequate security of the weapons warehouse in Pivka, the inadequate information within the Ministry and the attitude towards the Defence Committee of the National Assembly and the lack of record keeping? And this: Do you, Madam Minister, feel responsible for the situation and what measures are you taking and which measures will you trigger? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u84	Now, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u85	Dear Mr President, Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished Mr Hrvat! Thank you for the question, as well as for the clarification of the measures, because in this way we can also explain in more detail what we have already done and what we will do in the future, in particular with regard to the protection of such warehouses of unexploded ordnance, such as Poligon 208, which was also among 8 regional warehouses of unexploded ordnance, including a training field for pyrotechnics. And this is the case, so this fact has also affected the fact that there are remaining assets in the warehouse of this polygon that are considered to be unexploded killings, but should not be there for that long. Indeed, in 2007 a number of anti-lock launchers and hand grenades were brought into this warehouse and used in the training of pyrotechnics, which took place in June 2007, but was interrupted by the accident that occurred during the afternoon of the use of KIK Kamnik. After that, training was carried out again in October of the same year and in the framework of this training, the same funds were again destroyed, but not all of them were destroyed. For when we received information about the break-in, and this information we received at the Ministry of Defence on 19 May, we immediately established all possible forms of inspections, as well as a review by the Intelligence and Security Service, which found that in this warehouse not only were those unexploded killings which should have been there after the current records, but also those that remained there since 2007. The rules on the protection against unexploded ordnance say that within 90 days all that is collected in such a warehouse must be destroyed. In this warehouse, the relevant two years have apparently kept things that should not have been there, should have been returned to the warehouses of the Slovenian Army or destroyed. This has not happened and therefore we have been duly sanctioned. If the investigation reveals any further responsibilities in the future, we will take further action or discipline, which we have already done with one of the most responsible. Therefore, as regards the protection of this warehouse, it has taken place in the same way as is the case for security in these warehouses, which are technically and normally physically protected. As far as circumstantial physical protection is concerned, we found in this warehouse that the last physical inspection was on May 12th, after the contract it should be twice a week. By May 19, when we received information about the break-in, there was obviously no physical sighting. Therefore, we have found that it is not possible for the company that did this to be entrusted with this type of activity. We cancelled the contract and created a new status of this facility, which is that this facility is of particular importance for the defence. That is why we have also been able to request the Slovenian Army to carry out appropriate forms of protection. These forms of protection apply only to the destruction of all assets present in this warehouse and in all the other seven warehouses of unexploded ordnance. This is one of our first measures, namely, to immediately destroy all assets, until the destruction of the protection by the Slovenian Armed Forces in an appropriate physical and technical manner, and then to establish completely new ways of protecting such warehouses, as well as new forms of collection of these funds. In fact, we have found that out of eight warehouses there are four of such types, that they are already within the technical warehouses of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and we have therefore decided to collect NUS from now on in just these four warehouses. For all the other four warehouses, we will introduce new forms of protection, both technical and physical, of course in the future, when there will be enough money for this in the everyday budget. Therefore, it is no fear that the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces should be used for storage of the Protection and Rescue Authority, except for those four which already contain containers for unexploded military assets. So, as for the records, I'm going to answer in the second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u86	You want to complete your answer, Mr. Horvat, or even have been invited.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Because the Minister couldn't answer everything she wanted, because there was no answer to some of the questions I asked, either. But in my opinion, this whole thing is kind of too easy to look at. I hope that MEPs and Members here are aware of what alienation means, let's say, weapons theft - if this place has happened. Well, we didn't get an answer to that question either. Was there a shortage of records or a theft of this weapon? Because one thing and the other is problematic! If there's been a theft, this weapon could come into the hands of people who shouldn't. So I'm going to say that, with the Minister's answers, I'm kind of satisfied at the flat-rate level. However, I would like to draw attention to these new standards, which were widely discussed before the elections, as to how the National Assembly will receive first and immediate information. Madam Minister, that is not what you have been talking about, but those who went to the hearings before the elections that the Defence Committee will have a much bigger role to play. But the fact is that the Defence Committee was only informed on the basis of media intervention and then we also received information, so later that there was a break-in and a possible location of this weapon. So I will add one more question: What will the Ministry of Defence specifically do to restore the reputation of Slovenia as Minister? I am sure that members of NATO, and not just members of NATO, are asking how it is possible for a member to be in a Member State, that is, a member who has the same place as the other major countries, to be able to do so at all. So, what are you going to do to make sure this reputation doesn't get too shaky?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you. Now, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. So, first of all, with respect to your reputation and your question about whether the event, break-in, the warehouse on the site affected the violation of the neighbor country's confidence in Slovenia. Given that Italy has closed all borders for the time of the G8 in a way that accurately examines the personal documents coming to its borders, including with other countries, not only Slovenia, I conclude that this is why Italy has obviously not increased its mistrust towards our country, but is an integral part of its security measures in general. Whether the intelligence services and the police of neighbouring countries have been informed about this - this is difficult for me to answer because the intelligence services and the police are responsible for this, but I know that the protocols exist and have informed the neighbouring countries accordingly. For the time being, it is still considered to have been a burglary, but we cannot say exactly whether or not the funds were taken from that warehouse. And according to the records we've reviewed, the ones you mentioned are missing. So we're still talking about bad records, but at the Ministry of Defence, we're not being frivolous about this, but we've been acting from day one, as if it were the worst option, as if it were a weapon theft, and we've been acting both inside and out of the house. Therefore, investigations together between the intelligence and security services, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian police were conducted in such a strict manner and are still taking place today. I hope that the results of these studies will also soon show where we are. We are very aware that these weapons are extremely dangerous, and that is why we are also dealing so harshly with those who have not behaved properly, in accordance with the rules of protection against the unexploded weapons that exist in us, so you will be informed of our actions in the future. Now, as far as information is concerned, we have informed all services within the Ministry of Defence, we have informed the President of the Government of the first findings of the inspection and the President of the State, when Mr Jerovšek asked for information on behalf of the Defence Committee, we have also sent them to the Defence Committee and the Commission on Intelligence and Security Services in the past week. I must say that you have had the opportunity in the past week to have the latest information on the full investigation, and tomorrow we are also considering this and the latest report on the National Security Council. So you can see that we are responding very seriously and responsibly to the problem that has taken place.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. I will say immediately in the introduction that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a discussion on the Minister's agreement. Last but not least because time is running out again and I know he has a lot to say about this topic. But the fact is, the investigation isn't over. And the conclusions, I am sure, will be of great interest to all Members of Parliament and Members, not only to the members of the Defence Committee, who will be informed about these matters, but I am afraid that we will be informed again if the Chairman of the Committee asks the Ministry of Defence to come and report on these matters. I think the Ministry of Defence's task is to come as soon as there is any matter that might be interesting, and it is interesting for the Defence Committee to take the initiative, as announced before the elections. Unfortunately, this is not being done. This will be a fine opportunity if we hold a debate if Members and Members confirm this tomorrow, when we vote to unite the two at the same time and actually hold a debate on the response and debate also on the findings of the investigative bodies. And if necessary, we can also close the meeting to the public, because I would really like to become familiar with the intelligence and security services themselves, i.e. their findings, in what way and when this information was transmitted on the alleged location of this weapon to other Member States or other neighbouring countries and intelligence and security services. That is why I think it would be right to hold this debate. We will get to know this, in fact, everyone, and in the end, if the investigation shows that the weapons were not stolen, that there were only some shortcomings, which is just as problematic, it would be good for all of us, or for the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Robert Hroat to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 16 June, in the framework of the vote. Bogdan Barovic will ask the Minister of Economy a question. The Minister of Economy is not here. Mr. Barovich, do you want to ask the question anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u93	Of course, thank you very much. I understand that he has obligations and I respect that he is not, because I believe he is carrying out certain obligations, although we have not heard the excuses, but nevertheless. See, in fact, this is not a question for a single minister, who we hang weights on his left and right shoulder, but it is a question for several ministries, in fact for the government. That's why I think it's right for everyone to listen. We have a green book in public. The Green Paper is not because of the green color, but because we are talking about energy independence, the independence of this country. I'm a purely ordinary economist with a VI. the degree, but I know that energy autonomy, independence and energy adequacy are the most important elements of each country's development; and this is true. From now on, given that I've been used to electoral language for 30 years, I'm going to speak obstetrically. In Trbovje, or in the region, we have adopted the Sava Memorandum. We received it: Chamber of Commerce, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, Municipality of Hrastnik, Municipality of Trbovlje, Municipality of Zagorje, Termoelectrica Trbovlje and Regional Centre for the Development of Trbovlje. Why did we accept it? Because the Green Paper does not really take into account what it specifies. For 205 years, the knapsacks dug "cologne" in Trbovje. 205 years! And for 20 years, they have at least net stocks and more. 103 years of work Thermal Power Plant Trbovlje and supplies Slovenia, according to the local word, the entire Ljubljana depends only on the power plant. Today it's not worth anything, not a colm, not a thermal power plant, not a "stream" from Trbovlje and Zasavje. The memo, signed by quite a few people, not the kind that fell off the pear, but the Masters, the Doctors of Science and those who have dedicated their lives to it, tells us exactly what we want, very precisely, according to the articles. Now I'm going to say something because I'm surprised, of course, that this right side is very empty: the red districts, I stress, the red districts should stay red mainly because of the commitment to work, because we want to keep working. Now, if we can no longer be yours as we are yours, my question is: Will the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Slovenia or the Energy Directorate, which represents the key pillar of the development of the region, take into account and include these programmes and our comments in the Green Paper? Will there be or won't there be? The question is clear. And so that we do not repeat ourselves, of course I will demand - I do not know on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure - I speak in trump language and I will end up in trump language [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The microphone's off. The Minister will answer to you at your next meeting. The question to the Minister of Economy will be raised by Mr Bogdan Čepič. You want to ask an oral question, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will pawn it, even though I regret that today the Minister is not here, and we have not at first heard that he would be excused. I am asking Minister Lahovnik in particular about the property of economic enterprises in the Republic of Slovenia and in the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Slovenia is becoming an increasingly strong economic partner and a political partner to the Republic of Serbia. In particular, good political relations take the form of various visits to the highest political and economic representatives of Slovenia and Serbia. The visit of Prime Minister Borut Pahor with a ministerial team and a strong economic delegation in Serbia this year certainly confirms this. In the economic field, based on increasing economic cooperation and investment in both countries, we can conclude that this cooperation is good. These good indicators certainly have open issues, and one of the most important issues has already been raised since 1991, and the issue of success is the property rights of Slovenian companies that have their assets in the Republic of Serbia. It is known that in 1991 the Republic of Serbia adopted a regulation prohibiting the temporary use of certain real estate rights in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This Regulation has made it impossible for Slovenian companies to freely dispose of their properties, including real estate, both for sale and for the use of these. The regulation has also changed throughout this period, and even so that real estates can be sold into the property of newly created social enterprises in Serbia, which the privatisation agency in the Republic of Serbia has also started to sell on auctions - it has also been said to privatise. In this way, Slovenian assets were also alienated. Surely this is not an easy problem, so it must be handled more carefully and responsibly. At the time of President Pahor's visit to the Republic of Serbia this year, according to my information, it was also said that this would begin to be resolved by the end of May 2009, when the Serbian government regulation on the protection of property of enterprises established in the territory of the Republic of the former Yugoslavia expires. In view of the fact that nothing has actually happened, the Serbian side has extended this Regulation until 30 September 2009 and has also shown its willingness to resolve matters. That is why I wanted to ask the minister the following questions: Does the Republic of Slovenia have a record of the assets of Slovenian companies, including properties in the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and am I particularly interested in the Republic of Serbia? In Slovenia, who from the state authorities is dealing with this issue? Given the fact that the Minister of Economy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is coming to the Republic of Slovenia for a visit shortly, I wonder: Is the topic of the assets of Slovenian companies also included in the interviews and the resolution of this problem in the Republic of Serbia? In fact, one estimate is that this property is for cca. 800 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Minister Lahovnik will answer this question at the next meeting. Mr Likar will be happy to ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you for saying that again. Madam Minister, distinguished other ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In 1999 the Agricultural Lands Act was in force, allowing only farmers to purchase such land. After the Law, farmers were those who had completed at least a secondary agricultural school. The purchaser of such agricultural land had to make a statement to the administrative unit that he would operate on the property and thereby create an important part of his income. This means that the farm should generate income of two thirds of the average wage in the country. In this regard, I would like to ask, Madam Minister, what was the procedure - here I mean all the consent, statements and other documentation - to acquire the status of a farmer in such a case by the administrative unit? Another time. How was the status of the farmer checked when purchasing the agricultural land? And thirdly: How was the revenue of two-thirds of the average wage verified in the country? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u98	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member. Allow me to explain to you first when you addressed the question of the interpretation and application of the agricultural land law to the Minister of Public Administration. As you are aware, in the system of executive power in the Republic of Slovenia, the Government is responsible and through it is, of course, the Ministry of the Interior responsible for the implementation of the regulations in the individual field of work. The Ministry of Agriculture was always responsible for the implementation of the administrative tasks laid down in the Agricultural Lands Act, even in 1999. This, however, has been carrying out these tasks in a deconcentrated manner, through its employees in administrative units since 1995. For the interpretation of the Agricultural Lands Act and the answers to your questions about the application of this Article in 1999, the Ministry of Agriculture is thus fully responsible and responsible. If you had asked about the registration of motor vehicles, you would have been answered by the Minister of the Interior, so the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs would have answered you about the building permit. When, on a proposal from former Minister Virant in the Law on State Administration, the powers of the Ministry of Public Administration regarding the work of administrative units were indicated in 2004, I can tell you very clearly that my competence today is determined on the following matters under the Law on State Administration and the Law on Public Servants. We monitor the organisation of work and the efficiency of the administrative unit as a whole, monitor the skills of workers in jobs where administrative tasks are not performed from the work areas of other ministries, provide guidance and guidance to administrative units to improve the organisation of efficiency and quality of work, propose to the Government that there be agreement on internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the administrative unit, then coordinate the resolution of staff, financial, spatial, material and other similar issues regarding the work of administrative units and decide on the rights and obligations of the chiefs of administrative units. So these are all the powers the Ministry of Public Administration has. However, with regard to the execution of individual administrative tasks, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on State Administration, I would ask honourable Members and Members to refer the matter to the Minister of State, who, through a deconcentrated unit of his ministry within the administrative unit, carries out tasks under the responsibility of a specific ministry. You will thus address this question to the Minister of Agriculture, Dr Pogačnik, who will, with the help of his professional services, tell you exactly how implementation of the Agricultural Act was expected in 1999. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. Well, but this consent or confirmation that someone has the status of a farmer, that is also one of the conditions for purchasing agricultural land, was, however, if I am not mistaken - if you do not, correct me, please - this proposed to the administrative unit. I think so in 1999. Now I ask you, and I ask you for answers: Is this also controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and I have to turn to it or perhaps this administrative unit or perhaps even the Ministry of Finance? I find that interesting, so I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Maybe I wasn't clear enough. When an application is submitted, even in 1999, for the issue of the certificate for which you ask, this certificate shall be issued on the basis of a regulation. In this case, it was a law on agricultural land. Who is the contractor of the Agricultural Lands Act? This is the Ministry of Agriculture. It shall carry out it through this administrative task in a deconcentrated manner within its department, which is within the administrative unit. Who are these officials, the heads of the agriculture department? To the Secretary of State. This is the Minister of Agriculture, with regard to the execution of tasks under the agricultural law. Who decides on complaints in these specific cases? Ministry of Agriculture. For this reason, the Ministry of Agriculture also laid down for interpretation the Agriculture Act. It is said that the Ministry of Public Administration performs those organisational, technical, spatial conditions, human resources, what I have previously listed, and is not competent to explain whether in a particular case a building permit has been issued correctly or not, or whether a traffic permit has been issued in one way or another. They are therefore within the framework of the division of power because the Constitution is very clear: the ministries carry out the tasks laid down by the National Assembly within their competences, namely laws and other regulations. But how they do it is a matter of organization. And we are implementing them in a deconcentrated manner within administrative units, and therefore individual departments in their work are accountable to individual sector ministers, with regard to personal status, citizenship, the Minister of Home Affairs, as well as with regard to complaints of audits. I would take too much responsibility if I answered such questions, we, the Law on State Administration, or the constitution and regulations implemented, namely the Law on State Administration, do not give them. I therefore suggest that in these cases, when it comes to the work of administrative units, you look at which minister is competent and address such substantive questions to the competent ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State for Health. I was informed that the Psychiatric Clinic, which belongs to your Ministry, the company Šent, the Slovenian Mental Health Association, cancelled the rental contract for the Razori estate, where rehabilitation programmes for people with mental health problems have been successfully implemented on the organic farm since 1999. You are certainly aware of this, since Shent did not want to meet with the representatives of Shent, after the psychiatric clinic, with the exception of one meeting after the January cancellation of the contract, nor did she explain why the contract was cancelled, sent a letter asking you for answers and explanations, which have not yet been received, and the notice expires at the end of July. Before I ask you a question, there's still some information. A total of 222 persons were included in the training and employment programmes via Šent in Razori. Of this, 12 people were regularly employed on the property. In the context of public works, 12 persons were employed in different periods and 6 persons were trained in the employment relationship. To date, 192 persons have been included in the programme of employment and labour training. In addition, Šent invested around EUR 1 million in its own calculations in Razori, a good EUR 330,000 in direct investment in infrastructure, while the other is indirect investment: in employees, organic farming, rehabilitation programmes and so on. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary: Why did the Psychiatric Clinic cancel the lease on the non-governmental humanitarian organization Shent? Why was there one meeting on this subject so far? When can Shent expect a meeting and answers to their questions and letters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Member, the honourable one! We're familiar with the problem at the Ministry. The psychiatric clinic complies with the agreed obligations and rights under the lease contract, which has been concluded 22. On 7th of 1999 for a period of ten years with a ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year ten-year lease with a ten-year leaser Shent cancelled further leases within the agreed period. The decision of the Council of the Institute that the psychiatric clinic of Ljubljana terminates the lease was received by Šent on 21 January 2009. So at least six months before the ten-year lease. This was the case in this Treaty. The psychiatric clinic held a meeting immediately after the decision to terminate the lease with the management of the NGO Shent, at which the company was explained that the property now needs the Ljubljana Psychiatric Clinic to carry out its activities, namely for some forms of treatment of addicts. That, honourable Member, is a formal answer. Of course, the problem is substantive. The psychiatric clinic needs some more time to prepare this programme in a consistent manner, so we are the Psychiatric Clinic and the Ministry of the Interior talking about the extension of this contract for one year and the preparation of a programme for both the Psychiatric Clinic and Shent so that they can take place in co-existence. The contract has been cancelled primarily for formal reasons, on the substance of what you want, and at the Ministry of Health, both with Shent and with the Psychiatric Clinic, we agree to find a common solution. Dear Mr Žerjav, I will also inform you personally when this agreement is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary. You are probably familiar with today's event in Luka Koper or the Port Koper control council. For some time after the decision of the Government, the Luka Koper Assembly of 20 March decided to carry out an extraordinary audit of a number of alleged disputes within the company for a period of 5 years. The audit was requested by the Capital Company, the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the State, with a total ownership of 67.11% of Port Koper. Price Waterhouse Coopers was designated as the auditor. To date, the audit has not started because it is prevented from delaying the appointment of the Supervisory Board or the alleged unwillingness of the management of Luke Koper to give a detailed review of their operations. I therefore ask you whether it is in the interest of the State to check the economic management of state ownership as soon as possible. I ask: When will this review finally begin? With the incomprehensible delay of the audit, the room of manoeuvre for the speculation of leadership and the dissatisfaction of employees in Luka Koper is spreading dangerously. These certainly are not favourable conditions for overcoming the crisis and for the efficient operation of this company. After all, there is also a criminal investigation in Luka Koper due to suspicions of abuse and fraud. However, the public rightly lacks a slightly more decisive attitude of the Government, of course within the scope of the powers you have. What, then, hinders the start of an extraordinary audit, and when will it finally begin? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you, Vice President. The selected Price Waterhouse Coopers Audit House immediately after the adoption of the decision at the Fifteenth Meeting of Luke Koper, together with the Ministry of Transport, Kad and Sodom, launched the necessary audit activities. What the audit house did not entrust to the management of Luke Koper or to the supervisory board, it proposed to appoint a special nomination committee aimed at reviewing the interim audit reports and informing shareholders. The aim of such a measure was to fear the pedagogical outflow of information and to prevent the auditor from working effectively. In view of the events related to the criminal investigation in the month of April in Luka Koper and the withdrawal of the particular documentation required for this review, the activities of the appointment of the Special Nomination Commission have stalled. The Ministry of Transport responded immediately to the events and asked the Ministry of the Interior by letter to allow the auditor to have smooth access to the documentation obtained. The operational agreement was quickly reached and was coordinated between v.d. Directors of Police and V.D. Director of Maritime Directorate. The appointment of a special nomination commission should be confirmed by the supervisory board of the company, which has not met since then. And that's the main problem. For that reason, it was not even possible for the management of the company to sign a contract with the auditor, so that the contract was not concluded until today. At the sixteenth congregation, Luke Koper will be appointed a new supervisory council with which the audit house is expected to cooperate and the special nomination will probably not be necessary at all. We believe that the Ministry of Transport has done everything in our power and competence to carry out this extraordinary audit as soon as possible. Problems with the Supervisory Board will be resolved by a meeting of the Management Board of Luke Koper d.d. on our request, 13. Seven. 2009, it was called last Friday. It should be pointed out that in the event of the failure of the Supervisory Board to act on a case-by-case basis, we did not have the right legal weapons, except for what we did. Why, though, is the congregation convened on that date? The decision to convene the Assembly took into account the legal deadlines, as well as the economic situation. Indeed, the majority of shareholders could have called the Assembly a little earlier, but before August another additional assembly should be convened, where shareholders would have considered the annual report and the distribution of the balance sheet profit for 2008, because the Supervisory Board had not done so. When we fall to that date for which we have called on the congregation, the congregation can do so on its own. In order not to be two congregations in such a short time, we simply called one, just a little later, for rational economic purposes, so that we can carry out this yet-to-be-discovered task.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I am partially satisfied with your answer, as I expected such an answer. I think that the possibilities are quite limited in our competence, but the fact is that today we find that everything is in the hands of the President of the Supervisory Board. And this is Mr. Boris Popovich. It's been a strange game for months. It seems that the whole state, the government, Luke Koper, and the entire public are the captors of some of the caprices of this President of the Supervisory Council. And I wonder: Is there no way to break this vicious circle that actually takes Luka Koper into very strange waters? I am aware that Luka Koper is losing important opportunities, business opportunities that are strategic in nature, which will probably be discussed and made public in the coming days. It is the interest of strong partners to make Coper some kind of logistics centre for products coming from these countries. And these are important countries. But it all stands for once, because there is no real interlocutor in Luka Koper, the situation is very strange, there is already a street, and if we continue like this, this tension can be further increased, so once again I call on the Government and all the competent authorities to break this vicious circle and try once to get rid of those not supervisors, but the personalities that are actually hampering any kind of resolution of this strange knot. Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you. Would you like to comment on that call? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you, Vice President. Look, I don't have dates on me right now, but a long time ago, which is a changed system of recruitment into the control worlds, we've initiated procedures. Indeed, procedures are a little longer than they would have been if only it were under the authority of a minister of a name that you could appoint to the Supervisory Board. So we went to a public call that had a deadline, then even a holiday, and we extended the time period so that we would not create the impression that we wanted to get through quickly, there were a lot of people who were also judged by CAS and I think we chose extremely good names, which will also guarantee that Luka Koper could work well in the future. And once these names have been selected, the procedures in the Government must be continued. Once the proceedings in the Government have been concluded, procedures must be carried out through the appointment of the Assembly in accordance with the Company Act. All these hands, when we put them together, bear that it looks like the thing's been running slowly. And it hasn't been running slowly, and it's been dated since you warned me that if you looked at the dates, things have been going really, really fast as best they could with the hands that we're legally bound to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished minister I'm asking, the other ministers and ministers! My question concerns excise policy for the government's oil derivatives. Even six months ago, Slovenia had the lowest possible excise duty on oil derivatives in force in the European Union. And this was also appropriate for the prices of oil derivatives in Slovenia compared to prices in other countries. Today, after six months, after the constant lifting of excise duties, the prices of petroleum derivatives are much lower, even in Switzerland than in Slovenia. Even in Germany, the price of diesel is lower, and much lower than ours, even in Spain, even in Austria, there are lower prices of oil derivatives, including in Hungary, which are our neighbours, that I am not talking about Croatia at all. Italy's only a little higher. But we are comparable with Great Britain, where we are close to the prices of oil derivatives. These are the final prices, valid for today in the European Union. I will not list everything where it is cheaper, Spain, Slovakia, Poland, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, not to compare this country by the standard of wages. And what's the worst thing about the whole thing, besides paying Slovenians and Slovenians one of the most expensive gas stations in Europe, the most expensive diesels in Europe, because the prices of oil derivatives in our neighbours are cheaper, is now no longer this effect, which was six months ago when foreigners who either crossed Slovenia or came to Slovenia bought oil or gasoline. Now the opposite is to buy oil derivatives before entering Slovenia, on exit and, worst of all, that our citizens are already walking, who are borderline, who are buying gasoline or oil into neighbouring countries. What does that mean? Given that traffic is about the same, foreigners are about the same on our roads, the same number of trucks, those who are in transit, are about the same, it is said to pollute our atmosphere. Those exhausts still go into the air, but the country gets less because it sells fewer oil derivatives. The state deserves less, and we have to pay Slovenia and Slovenia for that difference. Now I am going to ask a question in style like my predecessor: Is our country, in the interest of this government, in the interest of its citizens being equal to the citizens of the other members of the European Union? They are now in a subordinate position because we pay more expensive oil derivatives than this case in Switzerland, Germany, Spain, Austria, not to list other countries. Is the government’s interest such that we are not equal because we are not now? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. During the time we prepared the answer, diesel in Germany was even more expensive than we had, but it was already cheaper in Austria. Depending on how the government decides to defend the fiscal balance, I will read the analysis within the timeframe. At the end of 2008, the government launched a policy of increasing excise duties on fuel fuels and later other excise duties mainly due to the deterioration of economic indicators, the results of the financial crisis. In particular, the aim was to replace the expected loss of other tax revenues due to the financial and economic crisis. On 16 December 2008, the government launched an increase in excise duties on fuel and gas oil for heating. Initially, the excise duty on motor fuels increased by EUR 100 per thousand litres, says 10 cents per litre, which was achieved in three steps until 13 January 2009. After that date, the excise duty on motor gasoline changed once more and the excise duty on gas oil for propulsion purposes three more times. The excise duty on gas oil for heating, which is extra light fuel oil, increased when amended in December 2008 from the lowest permitted level to the maximum permitted level in accordance with the Excise Act. It should be noted that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act has recently been adopted, allowing for the reimbursement of excise duty on gas oil used as fuel by heavy trucks over 7 tonnes and buses. It's so-called commercial diesel. In this case, it is one of the measures from the package proposed by the Government to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia. The proposed measure will have a direct impact on road transport by reducing the cost of transport of goods and passengers and consequently strengthening the competitiveness of this sector in the European Economic Area. On the other hand, it will have negative budgetary effects of around €39 million. In gas oil for D2 propulsion, it should be added that the minimum excise duty in accordance with the Energy Directive on 1 January 2010 will amount to EUR 330 per thousand litres, which is already reflected in the law. The projected financial impact of all excise duties on fuel fuels at the annual level is around €350 million, assuming energy consumption, as in 2008. Fuel prices shall be established on the basis of a regulation on the pricing of petroleum derivatives and shall move according to the movement of global market quotations and the exchange rate of the dollar. On the basis of the Regulation, the retail price is created by deducting the trade margin and the contribution to the payment of the specific remuneration for the execution of the economic public service, thereby obtaining a sales price before the tax, which is then added to the tax burden of excise duty and value added tax. And so the price is fixed for a period of fourteen days. This is then a price review, because you have received this whole analysis in writing, so you will be able to review it and you will see that there are approximately average European excise duty on petrol and we have a slightly above average diesel. During the crisis, however, all excise duties on diesel in the European Union on average increased more than in Slovenia. It is clear from these tables that the share of excise duty in the retail price of fuel fuels has been increasing both in Slovenia and in the European Union over the last six months. On 15 December 2008, Slovenia, in view of this indicator, was important under the EU average, as well as the euro Group Member States, both for unleaded petrol and for gas oil for propulsion purposes. That's what we're saying. We've been promoting the use of gasoline. For unleaded motor gasoline, the share of retail excise duty in Slovenia today, compared to the average of EU Member States, is virtually the same compared to the average of euro area countries, and is lower by a good two percentage points. For gas oil for propulsion purposes, the share of excise duty on retail prices increased during this period, slightly below the average in Slovenia, but did not grow as fast as in the euro group. The overall conclusion is that, this year, excise duties are abnormally higher and, due to the increase in excise duties in the calculated quantities of fuel fuels, the downward trend is observed, particularly for gas oil for propulsion purposes. In April 2009, gas oil consumption was lower by 18% than last year and by 10% for petrol. During the whole year, the price of diesel was lower by 11% and the price of gasoline by 7%. If I snore. The excise duty is very high, the government revenue for the reduction of the tax rates, the abolition of the tax on salaries paid and the reduction of the corporate income tax. This was inevitable if we want to maintain as much as the normal balance of public finances in this and the following year. This year we will have a large deficit, but it makes sense in terms of dealing with the consequences of the crisis. In the second year, we will gradually begin to level it and [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Perhaps my question has somewhat exceeded the competence of the minister, but I think he is the most responsible for the issue in the government, and that is why it is also intended for him. Today's electronic media are already full of the headlines "the prices of petrol are already coming up to record," because tomorrow's price rise of oil derivatives, and this strong 98-octane will be higher by 2.5 cents, diesel by 4.5 cents. The price of 95-Octan will be higher by 2.5 cents. All right, Mr. Secretary, you've given me a fine explanation as to how the price is being formed. I respect that and I believe that there may be higher excise duties, but what helps is that consumers have the most important price. And, look, tomorrow the price of diesel will be 1,059 in Slovenia, in Germany is only 1.02, in Switzerland is 1.02, in Spain 0.88, in Slovakia 1.0, in Portugal 0.9, in Germany is 1.04, so it is cheaper than in Slovenia. Let me mention Austria - 0.94 euros is just diesel. It is said that prices are much lower, no matter how they form prices. And I literally asked: is the Government's interest that we, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, are equal with the other countries, with the people of the other European Union. If in Germany they have twice as much wages and in Switzerland they have three times more wages than in Slovenia, but the price of oil is lower. That says we're not equal. And that was my question. As I said before, I know that the issue may go beyond your competence, but since you are most in charge of this excise policy in the government, I ask you this. And I'm asking the same question again. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you for the very specific question, which also provides a very concrete answer. First of all, in Germany it costs 1.69 euros and is more expensive than us. Secondly, the highest price of petrol was achieved in Slovenia between 1 and 14 July, due to the world market situation, which amounted to €1 21.7, says 1.217. However, the price of diesel was highest from 15 July to 28 July 2008 and amounted to as much as 1,311 euros per litre. If the oil price spiral continues or starts, then the current economic policy will also be forced to lower excise duties. We're not at this stage right now. We are currently at a stage where we have problems with public financial flows and maintain a fiscal balance by reducing the country's material expenditure. We have done this for some poor 300 million euros with a balance or next week in the parliamentary procedure while at the same time raising excise duties where possible. If there is a spiral rise in oil prices, we will find that this is no longer possible, and excise duties will be reduced again to a minimum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like a debate to be held on the excise policy of this Government. But speaking of which, I don't think I'm going to be in violation of the rules of procedure if I just say the information that the minister probably got wrong. I have today's data from the Internet, and this with the prestigious institution that deals with it - the price of diesel in Germany is 1.04 euros per litre. It's just, by the way. I'm asking you to hold a debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Petan to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 16 June, in the framework of the votes. Now he's gonna be a magician. Stefan Tisel asked the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u127	Nice greetings, Mr President, ladies ministers, ladies ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia implements the Slovenian Agricultural Policy and, as a good land owner, operates these land, leases them in accordance with the Agricultural Land Act or grants concessions to forests. This ensures the rational use of land processing and conservation, both for production and for research and training activities, as well as for the conservation of the natural environment and for the conservation and sustainable development of forests. The report on the work of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. As we know, 20-year concessions were granted to 15 forest economies for the exploitation of state forests. However, these economies have transformed into stock companies and companies. Forest economies in Slovenia manage 26%, which is about 224 thousand hectares of Slovenian forests. These are state-owned forests, for which they are symbolically paying EUR 5 per cubic of wood. The concession for the exploitation of state forests is shamefully low. Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, are you thinking about raising concessions or choosing new concessionaires who will be willing to pay substantially higher concessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u129	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for this question. First of all, I would like to say that the legality and financial functioning of the Fund are supervised by the Supervisory Committee. The Supervisory Board shall appoint the National Assembly. The National Assembly also appoints and resolves, on a proposal from the Government, the governing body - the Council of the Funds. However, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance supervises the operation of the Fund. And in 2008, 1 million cubic metres of wood was cut in concession forests. The value of these sold forest-forest ranges was 41.3 million euros. The regulation that regulates this is the 1996 Forest Exploitation concession regulation, which is a very old regulation. And this Regulation calculates compensation for concessions by deducting from the market price on the truck road the costs of logging, i.e. forest cultivation and protection, then maintenance and construction, reconstruction of forest trains, maintenance, rehabilitation of forest roads and so on. This gives us the final return from the concession, which in 2008 amounted to EUR 6 million 530 thousand. That means 6.3 euros per cubic meter. So not five, but 6.3 euros. It should also be pointed out that 78% of forestry and forestry works prescribed in the concession forests are carried out, while only 31% in private forests. And there is also a significant difference then in this final price. Regarding the cut I mentioned, it should be said that forest cultivation and protection, maintenance and construction, reconstruction of forest trains, then rehabilitation and other costs, felling of dangerous trees and so on, including felling, harvesting, finishing, sale, manipulation, costs amounted to EUR 27 million 799 000. That's how much you cost. And then there's this 6 million and a half, and out of that, about a million cubic meters is also the amount of concession. Nevertheless, we believe that the regulation should be prepared, which is why I appointed a working group in April, which is working to amend the Forest Exploitation concession regulation, which I have already said in 1996. We certainly expect this group to prepare a thorough analysis of the implementation of the concession regulation for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It will draw up proposals for amendments and additions on the basis of this proposal. And this amended Regulation, which must be adopted by the end of the year or by December at the latest, will also be the basic basis for the negotiations on concessions for 2010. I would add that the finalization of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests has been completed. It is also concluded that a proposal for a change in agricultural land is being drawn up and all these matters are also coming through the procedure of Parliament this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm partially satisfied with the answer. Thank you. The foresters in my environment warn me that the appropriate concession fee for a cubic metre of wood would be around €20, perhaps even more, if we know that the average price of wood is somewhere in 50 euros. In doing so, the country, as well as the local community, is losing huge losses, which could take care of infrastructure through the work of the concession. This is mainly a rural area where the population is declining. The forests of the Celje region suggest that future concessions could be distributed to the wood processing industry or local forestry industry. The criterion for granting concessions would be the location of production plants, the area of establishments and the intensity of processing and exportation. In addition, they believe that the Slovenian timber industry could maximize its competence in the European and global markets by already obtaining wood at a price that would be only the cost of exploitation and concessions, as it would allow for a reduction of entry costs by more than half. Concessions would allow wood manufacturing industries to survive the crisis or to develop more rapidly. This, however, would bring long-term integrated development to the country, with the creation of new jobs and employment for some 20,000 people. As part of the development of this industry, local communities would also develop, construction of heating plants, eco-acquired electricity and heating. The challenge of Slovenia as a developed economy should be to increase the added value and not only to sell raw materials, given that in 2005 the exports of tonnes of logs amounted to €82,373 of solid boards of buildings and €1681 of furniture,660. Therefore, if existing concessionaires are not willing to pay higher concessions, the grounds on which concessions with such low concessions were granted at that time should be found and the matter checked, as you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thanks for the complimentary explanation. I agree with your thinking that certain changes should be made in this area. As I have already said, the regulation will certainly be the one that will complement certain shortcomings in this area. We are even more promising than the amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands. It should be pointed out, however, that the Regulation is indeed from 1996. And it's strange that we have a regulation that, except in 2000, has not been amended. I think that by the end of the year, it will be time for these things to be thoroughly discussed and that we will really make certain additions in this area. I would also like to say that it is particularly important to stress that the wealth of our forests, especially in our wood - I have done several interviews with representatives of forest economies, as well as other factors in the field of forestry, public institutions and others, and everyone wants better connections, especially the better use of wood from Slovenian forests, including proper processing of this [[Some good connections have already been made in Slovenia]] , other ways of using the forest, such as liquid wood, is a new content that needs to be further discussed and upgraded, especially because it represents a new quality on the market. So I agree with you that the possibility is great, and I think we need to make a certain development, connections, primary and secondary connections and processing in this area, so that wood from Slovenian forests, which is valued, will also get a higher market price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you. Ms Silva Montenegro will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues, warmly greeted by Minister Majda Shirca Ravnikar! The oral question I am about to raise today concerns the law on librarianism, which we have adopted in the years since 2001, 8.11. This defines the rights of users in its Article 8. Users are particularly important in today's turbulent time, which is not easy, is quite complicated, and each user demands his or her rights and wants improvements. This makes it clear that users have the right to free basic services such as: materials rental, supply of material information and from the materials of the biblipedagogical work. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall also establish by regulation other basic services. Most Slovenian general libraries, except for some exceptions, charge their users of this service or in whole or only in part. I ask you to review all relevant regulations relating to this article and to answer me today, if possible, specifically what you intend to do in this area, given that we have a direct violation of the law adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u137	Dear Member! It's a shame you didn't say what you thought. Because, in your question, I was thinking about whether, within this regulation or within the law and consequently within the regulation, you would be able to provide a more friendly service for us who are members of libraries. And in this light, several discussions took place in the past also between coalition partners and also in public debates, particularly in the sense that perhaps libraries would leave the payment of memberships at all. And if that was meant, let me answer you in this direction. Yeah. We are doing a study that will answer by the end of the year whether it would be appropriate for Slovenia, including for Slovenian public finances and municipal finances, to leave membership fees. Now some libraries or most libraries charge them, with great differences and discounts, from pensioners, students, youth, etc. to farmers, some leave at all, dostalska, Novomeska, Mariborski, Trebnje, Novo mesto, I think there are still some such libraries, Tolmin, Sežana, Postojna, Idrija, which do not require these memberships at all. For specific services, we know what they are, this means additional costs due to the wear-down of materials, etc. And those special services that libraries have to do. Libraries of these memberships, however, make important money. Over a million, a million, 500 thousand euros, representing between 3% and 8% of the total cost of library operations. On average, memberships, which are on average EUR 11 per year, are much less, somewhere more depending on the status of the population, but if they are to be eliminated, will be answered by this survey, which will respond more than simply to the fact that they have been eliminated, means that in some ways they would increase approximately EUR 500 by about the necessary replacement fees, as libraries also have costs that would largely fall on the municipalities. The regulation or the law could have gone in the direction of replacing the budget, but we know that library founders are municipalities, general educational, and to a large extent also cover the activity. This means that if the study gave this direction, so that it would make sense, if the research had also been given, and if such political will had been so, the municipalities should also participate as founders in this political will and should have spoken to these questions. Of course, libraries that have always had a better condition in recent times, certainly, not only with regard to equipment, spatial, but also purchasing capacity and also with regard to other services, the computer services offered to the inhabitants would, of course, be slightly burdened by this. As it is said, at least 3% of this revenue is from membership fees that are not collected today by the library, which means that these percentages should come back in a different way. If you wanted another direction of solution, I'd be grateful for your additional question. But I think it's also an important question whether membership is yes or no. Let me just stress that this research that we have commissioned will also process other practices that are very different around the world, and also worse services have some libraries around the world, not only in general educational libraries, but also in higher education, schools and nationalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. That I'm more clear. I certainly believe that Slovenia will not imitate those who are worse, but especially those who are better. Our law clearly states that the users of this service are free of charge. There's no doubt about it. The regulation is not clear enough and is derived from the law. Unesco manifesto is even clearer. Unesco discussed precisely 20 years ago and prepared quite well that he had also learned such doctrine and that it was necessary that in public libraries in other European countries, including higher education institutions, these services, and also some other services, are publicly accessible, widely accessible and free, given that public libraries have the opportunity to offer all these services in accordance with such good conditions. It would be clear that the legal norm that exists is also uniform in the implementation work. This is said in the public institutions implementing this segment. The second question concerns the quality and improvement of quality in public libraries and the use of additional new information communication technologies, which are developing even more every day and year. And if we want to be a developing society, quality, especially in the education segment, without quality books, we will not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u141	We will be easier to continue with this interim additional issue. As regards the improvement of the information system, which is already very quality, not only material, but also software upgrades when we are talking about the Cobis system. Here we must all be unhappy because we know that the Government has taken a very unpleasant decision with austerity measures in terms of improving the computer equipment of libraries. We have said that we will not necessarily buy anything in both ministries and public institutions, but rather that the crisis will soon be over. That's right. You've identified the problem correctly. It's free of charge under the regulation, but still. However, the regulation distinguishes the freeness of individual services and the possibility, here was a distorted regulation which libraries have to cover additional costs such as wear, xeroxing, acquisition of video and audio material, then what are the costs of keeping records, registers, making badges and all that is apparatus related to the collection of these memberships. And here most of the libraries came in that she also had the legal basis for collecting membership. I suggest, I think it will be the wisest thing to do, as soon as this review of the situation across Slovenia takes place in all the segments that we launched in the Ministry immediately with a wide-ranging survey, when we come to the extraction of this data, then in the light of any other improvements that may be necessary, let us go to this regulation, which you say would make sense, that it would be more unequivocal to demarcate this activity or that it would be more unambiguous to demarcate this activity or that it would be clearer and not to look for some curves where it would be easier to get inside and others not. However, it is a very important question whether membership or not, because these are important funds, which, as I say, are provided in most cases by the municipalities or should have been abolished if the country were not more large and covered by this omission itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you. Dr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President, the distinguished Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič. The question I am asking about the construction of the sixth priority project between Kopro and Divaca and Trieste and Divaca. When I asked you in that parliamentary question about the appointment of the Director-General of Railways and Magnificent Cables. Love Žerak and his conflict of interest in this project as well, I have been paying attention to one part of your response, which relates to a public order for the creation of an idea project for the new Divatoro - Koper double-tier line, which was interrupted. The reason for the interruption is, as stated in the Ministry of Transport's decision to change the performance of the activity, in accordance with the European Commission's decision, by treating one part of the route between the Divaca and the site as a single line and then as a two-track line. I ask you: What were your reasons for changing the priority of rail infrastructure? I ask you: Did you really do this on this sixth priority project, which is also a cross-border project, so that the section of the line from Kopra to Black Kal will be a single track, while from Trieste to Divaca will be a two-track? Or if I say briefly, from Kopra v Divaca we will have poorer infrastructure in Slovenia, this is called a single track, while from Trieste to Divaca will run a two-track. Does this mean that Trieste will have a better connection with Slovenia than Koper?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u145	Dear Member, Dr. Peter Verlich. Activities related to the construction of the new road Koper - Divac are taking place under the same priorities as they were set up, namely the realization of a new railway connection between Koper and Divac. To this end, activities shall continue in preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the Two-Tier Track on the overall course of Koper-Divač in a manner that will also allow for the setting of optimal construction and transport and technology phases of the project's investment. As a meaningful and optimal use of European funds and funds, the project documentation preparation activities for the Koper-Cepišče-Krni kal section are carried out as the first phase, in accordance with the conditions set out in the regulation that was adopted under your government. This is the 2005 State Location Plan Regulation for the second track of Koper-Divač. This will avoid unnecessary waiting for the completion of the State's site plan in a document that will determine duality and will be in line with the programme of amendments prepared by the Ministry of the Environment, theoretically completed by 2010. We do know, however, that the placement procedures are very long-lasting and, by the way, these hands are retreating. Under the tendering conditions for the construction of the already mentioned project, this construction permit will be completed next year, which means that the construction of the Koper-Cepišče-Black Kal unit section as the first phase of the new, first one-off phase, and later in line with the needs for additional capacity of the two-tier railway line, could start, if luckily, towards the end of the second year. This basically led us to pursue the matter this way. The additions and modifications to the national location plan set out in the document processing the single line into the two-track document and the preparation of the project documentation shall be made in such a way that it is possible, and as necessary, to continue the construction of the single line also at the Cepišče-Black Kal-Divača section. This will enable continuous construction from Kopra to Divaca. With the chosen phase approach, we will try to make up for what has been lost from 2005 to today. The chosen approach does not mean that Trieste will have a better connection than Koper, but rather the orientation of all the powers to build the new Koper-Divic track on time and in line with the needs that will arise in Luka Koper. In addition, in view of the large investment estimates of the construction of the new double line of Trst-Divič, complex and difficult construction operations and the necessary capacity are likely to also provide for the possibility of a single link at the first stage of the construction of the new line of Trst-Divić, which will meet the needs of Trieste. You actually got off to a good start with this location plan you prepared in 2005. Our wish is to start building as soon as possible. Look, this financial perspective is gonna run out at some point. And if we don't start the construction of the second track as soon as possible, based on this spatial plan that you've adopted, and the additions go ahead, we're going to lose these funds. This was the main guide for the shovel to be sealed as soon as possible and to initiate procedures that were necessary for Luka Koper. This is how a single link will be made in the first phase, but at the time of the loop, it will be two tracks. With the existing track, which has been sufficient to date by Luka Koper, an additional first new track, when it is built, we will see when we can start with this additional second as soon as possible, including this meeting the needs of Luke Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much for that answer. I'd like to make it clear to all of us once again. If I understand your answer correctly, the final goal is the two-tier connection between Koper-Divic and Trieste-Divic. This is very important. Here I would like to warn you, Mr Minister, or ask you to be extremely careful, because if I also understood this part of the answer, it is a matter of taking into account a certain phase. The phase can be taken into account in the way you presented it, but I'm afraid there's a trap in it. The trap is that once it's built, you said that construction will begin as soon as possible, I agree, but that in the end it will not be forgotten on the second track. I am sure that it is possible to reverse the matter differently, and I am glad that the Minister for Environment and Space is also sitting, but perhaps to accelerate the completion of the site plan for duality as soon as possible at the complete course from Kopra to Divaca and from Trieste to Divaca and that stage of construction still to start building. I would really like to ask you, if this is also acceptable to you, I think it would be even better and avoid the danger that we do not get to just one track from Kopra to Divaca. We must not forget here, too, these strong interests on the Italian side, which will quickly take advantage of the single track for different purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u149	Our wish is the same. I also want a high-quality two-tier connection between Kopro and Divina. Unfortunately, in 2005, it was a shame that you took one-on-one, I understand that there were different circumstances at the time, and I think that your decision on duality was then the right one. That's not a question. When we assessed what would be most meaningful, we found that, given the experience of spatial placement, it could happen if we did not close the shovel as soon as possible so that European funds would disappear. I'm going to take your fear very seriously so that you don't stay only single, despite having a loop, because you know, after the old track down, and after one up, it says, we're going to have three tracks, that's what we need to know if we're going to do a double. I'm going to take this very seriously, I think we have the same desire that finally Koper is connected with a high-quality two-tier connection, this is in the long run for Koper necessary and urgent, and I'm going to make sure that this project doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u151	Dear President! I think there are problems that have now proved to be true. Nevertheless, I think that one desire to make the best of it is to suggest that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In fact, there is something, projects are already under way, a national programme for the modernisation of railway infrastructure, which has been announced, but we do not have an objective picture in the National Assembly of how the construction phases are going to take place, whether it will really go as proposed by the Ministry of Transport or perhaps it would be better to hurry with the preparation of the site plans, and take this marginal condition for drawing on European funds also for hire. In fact, once again, we must not forget here that I would not have agreed that we were too slow here, I think that the previous government has made a huge move by reaching this extremely complicated agreement with neighbouring Italy on the course of the cross-border project between Trieste and Divest and Koper and the Divinator in view of all their pressures and interests, which you probably know well, in order to get Koper out of the map. And because it is such a sensitive topic, which can quickly also receive a political call, namely two governments, two ministries have set up a concrete project, an agreement has been reached, I hope that this will continue now under the leadership of the new Secretary of State. In short, if we change something immediately, there is a fear that this neighbouring country will take advantage and reopen things that are already closed. At the same time, I think that, in addition to all these ideas that your professional colleagues bring to the table, on the phase, on the phase, on the phase, I believe that sometimes it is difficult for the minister, when colleagues with various ideas burden him, but I suggest that we get here after the debate a look, how forward, I would also say the political dimension. I think that then the solution would be such that the duality is clearly determined between Koper and Divina and Trieste and Divina, and that in fact our priority is this Koper - Divaca and, according to my information, the Italian side is late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Verlic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 16 June, in the framework of the votes. Mr Miran Györek will now ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Criminalists recently took the liberty of four individuals in the Maribor area who sold various residence permits in Slovenia. The buyers of these permits were both persons from abroad with an unverified identity, as well as perpetrators of the worst crimes such as murder. Criminalists also seized part of the documentation at the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, at the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs, where such procedures are conducted. The said group of suspects is to be composed of the organiser and the assistant who acquired the applicants, the office of the person of the Maribor administrative unit who led the verification process, and the doctor of the Maribor health house who issued various medical certificates for the purposes of the formal procedure. The criminal investigation confirmed the suspicion of the existence of a group of persons who, with the motive of obtaining the proceeds of property, unlawfully enabled a large number of persons, in particular from the territory of the republics of the former Yugoslavia and some European Union countries, to obtain a residence permit or the status of a foreigner resident in Slovenia. By falsifying official data, the suspects to the competent service of the Ministry of the Interior of Slovenia during the period following the independence of Slovenia have been showing false information for a long time about a permanent stay. In doing so, they forged documents, conducted official procedures in an illegal manner, and they were the basis for issuing decisions allowing different forms of aid to be obtained from State transfers and providing a basis for possible subsequent acquisition of citizenship. I ask the Minister of the Interior: How does it intend to prevent such and similar cases in the future? Does the Ministry of the Interior intend to re-examine all procedures for obtaining the nationality of persons who have received Slovenian citizenship on the basis of certificates or residence permits and a certificate of status of foreigners resident in Slovenia sold to them by the aforementioned persons? I also ask the Minister: How does the Ministry of the Interior intend to sanction all persons involved? Has it also considered the confiscation of citizenship for these persons involved, both suspects and those who have acquired citizenship on the basis of purchased certificates or on the basis of these illegal procedures?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u155	Dear Presidents and Members of Parliament! Indeed, in early June in the area of police administrations Maribor and Ljubljana carried out a final criminal action, which took place since the end of 2007. Its content was related to the investigation of suspected corruption in relation to parts of the Maribor administrative officer in proceedings with foreigners. The forecasting procedure ran against 12 suspects, 14 house investigations were carried out, including at the headquarters of the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs in Ljubljana; more documentation was seized there by criminals. A detention was ordered against four persons, against all four of whom the investigating judge ordered detention. However, 16 pure corruption and 4 other crimes were brought before the District Attorney's Office. There is a suspicion in detainees that they have committed more than 30 crimes related to the acquisition of citizenship and residence permits. The second phase of the criminal investigation related to that case also takes place intensively. Criminalists review the documentation and determine the possible cooperation of other persons employed in the administrative unit in Maribor and at the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs in Ljubljana. By amending the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia of 2007, the real competence to decide in the procedures for obtaining Slovenian citizenship in the framework of regular naturalisation has been transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to administrative units, but the Ministry of the Interior is still the audit authority that gives its opinion on decisions. Therefore, on the basis of these findings, the Ministry will operate hand in hand with administrative units. Together with them, we will review all procedures, all administrative matters of naturalisation and issued residence permits which will be found to have been obtained on the basis of false statements made by the parties or by concealing essential circumstances, falsifying documents or any other offences under the Penal Code. In such cases a renewal of the procedure is possible, it is possible to revoke the residence permit or the decision to take citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it should be pointed out that the withdrawal of a citizenship permit is actually possible where such a person does not become an apathy, i.e. a stateless citizen, a stateless person, i.e. where he already has another nationality. If it is found that there have been any illegality in the administrative procedures under the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, of course I will also require appropriate measures against employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you. You answered most of the questions, but I would still like to add something to the question. It is for officials who, under their official duty, had to obtain from various registers, such as residence permits or citizenship permits, a set of prior licences, various birth certificates, marriage certificates, if the marriage is concluded, information on the status of the alien, the registration of the residence, the provision of means of life and so on. So these are the cases you've just discovered, just the tip of the iceberg. It's a pyramid thing. Indeed, the revision of these official procedures should also be carried out at a lower level. This is actually a broader dimension and I think this is a great deal of work, which will also require the participation of the Ministry of Public Administration, as mentioned earlier. However, as far as taking citizenship is concerned, I know that this is difficult. In theory, it is possible for a Slovenian citizen who lives in Slovenia to not be able to take citizenship. In order to take his citizenship, he must also have foreign citizenship, or he must live abroad, so that no criminal proceedings can be brought against the emergence of apathy and so on. It is said that the legislation is such that it is easy to acquire the citizenship it once acquired that you can practically no longer withdraw, except in those cases, as I said. But there is also the possibility that if you have already thought so far that, for example, in such cases when it comes to such hostile acts, criminal acts, for example, you might have complemented the Citizenship Act and foreseen something like this, of course, if all of this is in accordance with various directives, such and different ones that bind us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you. We are aware of the gravity of the situation. It's an integral problem. It's not just a superficial one. Therefore, as we say, we will review these procedures. This means to look at the entire chain, to see if all the conditions have been given. As I said in the introduction, the forecasting process is very broad. We are aware that there was a circle of people who had to take part in this, great. Therefore, on the basis of the police findings, we will consider whether it is possible to establish any additional control mechanisms in these issuing procedures. There's a human factor here that we can't avoid 100%. But on the basis of these findings, where these shortcomings have occurred, we will try to further refine the procedures. We will try to put in place certain control mechanisms that may prevent such events to a greater extent. As it is said, the withdrawal of citizenship is possible, not always, but perhaps when this whole investigation is concluded, when the actual situation is clear, it may also be possible to consider whether there may be a lack of actual legislation. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u161	Yes, I have a procedural proposal in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph. I propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly at one of the future meetings, because there is a reasonable suspicion that the matter in question has wider dimensions, since in many cases it may also be linked to cases of deleted, so-called deleted. And I want to know: Will you then pay more attention to such issues? For we have reason to suspect in the Slovenian National Party that many cases will be discovered in that very society deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Györek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on 16 June, in the framework of the votes. Mr Darko Menich now has the floor to ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, Ambassadors, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! I would like to ask the Minister to describe the issue; on the basis of Article 47 and 58 of the Spatial Planning Act, the municipality will prepare a draft municipal spatial act, which it shall forward to the space regulators, in order to provide guidance on the planned changes within 30 days. The problem arises when, after the 30-day deadline, the guidelines are still missing. At the same time, space regulators do not report that they do not have guidelines. While the legislation allows that in this case it is deemed that the holders of the guidelines do not have their competence, the drafter must comply with all the requirements laid down in the applicable rules for the planning of the intended spatial arrangements. However, at the request of the drafters, it is noted that the operators of the regulation of their premises are nevertheless preparing their guidelines, which means that the procedure for preparing the spatial act continues to be risky, as the guidelines would still need to be followed upon subsequent receipt. In practice, this means that the spatial act should be restored to the previous stages and repeated, thereby extending the already excessive deadlines and increasing the already dizzying costs of the production of the spatial act. I ask the Minister: What will the Ministry of Environment and Space do to ensure that the guidelines of the space regulators are issued within the prescribed 30-day period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you for your question. I must say that today I have three questions in the area of the Spatial Planning Act. This law was adopted in 2007, in order to be able to better prepare spatial plans - at local level as well as national ones. Unfortunately, I must say that the law does not follow this objective. If I followed him, I probably wouldn't have received three questions today. This topic is constantly present, even when I meet with the mayors and both associations. It will therefore be necessary to supplement this law in any way, based on the findings we have learned from practice. That is why the Ministry of Environment and Space has already prepared the material to be dealt with in the Government, where all these comments from the municipalities, including by the planners of these plans, are about implementing organisations, and where the aim will be - how to speed up these procedures. I must say that, as the Ministry of the Environment, we have no direct influence to be forced by the space regulators to speed up their procedures, as they are, for example, the agents of the regulation of the Ministry's premises and other organisations. Therefore, in this proposal, which we will also put on the Government, we are thinking of reintroducing a so-called interdepartmental government working group to coordinate possible conflicts of interest. In particular, it is a cross-interest between the ministries and the municipality. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Culture, where it is being assessed, on the one hand, the development the municipality wants, and on the other, we want to maintain certain values such as agricultural land. If the Minister of Agriculture were here right now, I would also say that we have the lowest share of agricultural land per population - 700 square meters, while in Europe this share is 2,000 square meters. However, we know that certain areas are such that they do not allow enlargement to take place on agricultural land as well. For example, in Pomour, where we know that it is mainly areas where agricultural land is, it is very difficult to plan some development in a city if you do not reach agricultural land as well. That is why we will also propose to the Government that the regulators of this area should treat it as a matter of priority, that is to say that they are organised so that all these matters will be dealt with as quickly as possible. Clearly not in the thirties. I don't know how the experts who prepared this law in spatial planning thought it was possible to do so in 30 days. However, they did not take into account the fact that we have 210 congregations. Some congregations are so small that they do not even have the expertise to draw up an appropriate municipal spatial plan. Not even a frame. There are no anticipated funds either. You yourself mentioned that it's very expensive to hire an executive organization. We know that these funds were not planned in municipal budgets. Nevertheless, I am sure that this law will have to be amended and supplemented. I'd like to say the following. I am not in favour of this period, which was two years old, following the adoption of the Regulation adopted in 2007, at the end of 2007 on the basis of the Spatial Planning Act, in order to extend this deadline and thus to sweep the problem under the carpet. Because it seems to me that the dynamics that are taking place in the congregations would then fall a little bit. I can say that we are currently reviewing 148 municipal spatial plans. That's a pretty big number, and I think we should just keep going this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thanks for the answer. Maybe that's all I'd add. Many municipalities have difficulty preparing municipal spatial plans for the slow development of guidelines for space regulators. Delaying causes resentment and intolerance on the part of citizens. In the municipality of Šostanj, in particular, we have been waiting for 9 months for the guidelines of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of water protection. Please take urgent action in the sense that the statutory deadlines for obtaining guidelines are respected and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you. Does the minister want to answer that?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u169	I will check the specific case to see what is the reason that the guidelines are not issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Respectable present, well-known. Dear Mr. Minister for Environment and Space. Under the Water Act, a water fund is established, whose resources are to be used to finance water infrastructure and various water management projects such as water conservation and management measures, water protection measures, water reduction measures and so on. Unfortunately, I note that the Fund's activities, despite countless natural disasters in recent years related to the operation of water, are minimal. Everywhere in Slovenia, resources for the construction of water infrastructure such as dams, embankments, reservoirs and water infrastructure maintenance, water treatment and treatment are simply not available. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What projects have the most resources of the so-called water fund been spent on since the establishment? Maybe list some of the biggest investments in this fund. How much of the water fund funds foreseen for 2009 have been used to date? How much of the water fund's resources are intended to regulate and clean watercourses this year? How much of the water fund funds are dedicated to the construction of high-water embankments this year? What activities are being carried out at the Ministry regarding the construction of the high-water embankment from Vorberk to Upper Duplek and when is the start of the construction envisaged? When does the Ministry intend to carry out activities related to the cleaning of the old Drava stream and its tributaries in the work from Upper Duplek to Vorberk? And: When will the construction of the high-water embankment begin at the river Mura from Benic to Petiševc? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you for the questions, not for the question. I hope that you will ask an additional question so that I can answer everything because there are many questions. As regards the water fund and the resources for the construction and maintenance of water infrastructure, I must say that these resources are insufficient. There have been too few in the past, but now that we are in this financial crisis, I fear that the situation will not improve. We are working at the Ministry to maintain the level of these funds. You asked which five of the biggest investments were made under this fund. Let me say that these are: rehabilitation of high-water embankments on Mura, which was spent at the first phase of €5.2 million; then the arrangement of the Škocjan bay natural reserve, spent €3.2 million; the regime of the Devil in Vojnik, spent €1.8 million; the regulation of Savinja in Laska, which concludes, the value of € 1.6 million; the keeper of the Kobilje stream, consumed €1.4 million. I've got it to go on, too, but it would take too long. Let me say that some more than €25 million is provided in the 2009 budget rebalancing. At this point, we have spent 7.5 million euros. However, I must say that the overloads amount to 14.4 million euros by the end of 2009. We're going to spend this money in any way we can. Let me say that the current initialling of the contract is EUR 4.7 million under the Infra business plan, which is the completion of the part on this water infrastructure at Blanca's hydroelectric power plant. How much water fund resources will be allocated to water treatment and treatment? I must say that we do not allocate these funds from the water fund, but we have a specific budget item, so we do not use this fund for these purposes, and I think it is also right. But there's not enough money on this item. How much of the water fund funds are dedicated to the construction of high-water embankments this year? Two million are earmarked for high-water embankments, one million for the gravel near Mura and one million for the documentation of the embankment near Drava. However, I must say that given that the Janša - Sanader Croatian side does not, despite the agreement, carry out its works, it is likely that an annex will be concluded in which this part, which the Croatian side should conclude, will be completed by Slovenia. This is to prevent flooding in our area, because this part is decisive for where the water will flow. But we know that high water is promising because in Austria the snow melts and in July, usually this water comes to Slovenia in August. However, we will provide these funds, as agreed, from the budget reserve. As far as Drava's arrangement is concerned, the Vurberk-Duplek section. I can say that land acquisition and project construction documentation are under way. EUR 1.4 million is provided and the construction of cohesion funds will be worth €4 million, but the drawdown will start in 2011, as all documentation needs to be prepared. With regard to cleaning the old shaft, you'll give me another question, and I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Fish, do you have a wish for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you. In 1998, the Drava River sailed extensively between Maribor and Ptava in the area of settlement on the left bank of Drava. At that time, Mr Gantar, Minister of the Environment, visited this area and assessed and started activities to build an anti-floating embankment. Today, after eleven years, construction has not yet begun and, of course, the inhabitants of this area are rightly concerned. That is why I ask, Mr. Minister, that the activities be accelerated. And: What activities do you intend to pursue? Please answer my questions in due time to answer the supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u177	For this last question, when we intend to carry out activities related to the cleaning of the old Drava stream and its tributaries in the part of Zgornji Duplek-Vurberk, I must say that these cleanings are essentially carried out as part of maintenance works through the Asa programme. Of course, it's minimal, because there's not enough resources for that. It is true, however, that the scope of the works is very difficult to reconcile with the demands of naturalists who do not allow for major interventions into the old Drava stream. Therefore, this year we are also producing a study that will identify a possible way of removing sipins from the Drava stream from the nature conservation perspective, because this is the only way we can do this in accordance with the requirements of naturalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u179	Respected and respected. Dear Mr. Secretary Lakhovnik! As is known, the previous government has adopted a resolution on national development programmes 2007-2023 and, within it, has also identified economic centres under special development priorities. Among these economic centres is the Oreh Economic Centre in Podravje near Maribor. I am convinced, Mr Minister, that we agree that in Slovenia, even during the crisis, we must give priority to enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and improving the unfavourable economic structure to achieve greater product and service complexity, higher added value and, consequently, new and better paid jobs. Let me remind you that in the 1990s Maribor had already undergone a major restructuring process, a demanding process of restructuring the economy, which led to the crisis with a structurally relatively healthy economy. Today, as elsewhere, this economy is increasingly under pressure from the economic crisis. In this respect, the Oreh Economic Centre is an important vision of strengthening the competitiveness of the entire region at the intersection of two motorways, railways, airports and energy flows. Our ambitions are therefore to establish a strong green logistics centre with new green production activities, to improve the conditions and opportunities for the development of a supportive entrepreneurial and innovation environment and, consequently, to provide new and better jobs. Unfortunately, we did not see much of these projects in the resolution, except for the large amount of pyrovan pump in the time of the previous government, by deducting the privileged position and treatment of the Phoenix Coastal Project. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in: What is the plan to establish economic centres and how will your ministry approach their early realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Frangež, I think that you are asking the legitimate question of what is going on with the Economic Centres project, which is placed in a resolution that has been adopted since the previous government. Let me say that the resolution on national projects contains and defines 35 projects that relate to different areas of the economy, such as energy, education, tourism, health and some other. In the context of these projects, it is correctly noted that 9 economic centres have also been identified, which, according to the operational programme for regional development, are mainly linked to infrastructure and less to the content that gives the infrastructure the right value. At the Ministry of Economy, we estimate that this is in fact the biggest flaw at this time. If I say plasticly, too much, in some way, is thinking mainly about building walls, but less about the content that needs to come into these walls and that actually creates that added value. Just to determine the development of projects, the environment and the ability of the environment to exploit the potential of economic centres, we have so far held discussions with all economic centres. In our discussions so far, we have found that individual projects are at very different stages of project development and, of course, the development of the projects themselves and, in particular, the arrangements of spatial acts, of course, of key importance, as well as at very different levels of capacity of partners, who, of course, have no real interest in infrastructure without the right content. In such cases, projects within the economic centres do not constitute breakthroughs for the environment in which they are placed. Therefore, as I said, it is crucial to determine what that content is. Of course, it is important to stress, and here I very much agree with you that the economic centres are one of the key areas of possible technological and development breakthroughs that will be defined in the budget for the future period 2010 and 2011, of course also in an appropriate way. Here I mean financially and also substantively, and in this way we would contribute to the development not only of the areas in which they are located, but in fact of the whole state economy. This is because, as I said, we are trying to give these economic centres the right content, and the condition is that those involved in these projects actually, based on the current situation, tell us what are those projects that are priority and which need to be implemented. The same applies to the Oreh Economic and Logistic Centre. One of the priorities you are mentioning, some kind of green logistics centres, can certainly be one of the real priorities and, of course, we will also include this in the preparation of the 2010 and 2011 budget, based on these discussions. Above all, we will now accelerate these activities with appropriate content and, of course, this economic and logistics centre will also have an appropriate position. For us at this stage, once again, the key to the so-called "feedback", the answer, in fact, was these key characteristics of the centres, what is actually the content that can, as soon as possible, come to life and give these projects actual added value. We want to avoid the situation in order to actually have buildings, but we would not have any content that would give these buildings some actual added value. It is also the future of Maribor and its surroundings in the field of logistics development. Among us is a Member who is not least an example of the successful development of a small business, Mr Vezjak, and many others from the area that has successfully developed their businesses in a logistical sense. As such, Oreh is probably one of the real platforms for the economic development of Maribor with its surroundings. In this respect, your question is also very well founded. As I said, it is now time for the next phase to actually define those priority content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you. Would you like a refill? No, no, no. Mr Zvonko Černač will now ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u183	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. I am asking the Minister of Justice a question regarding the payment of overtime, on-calls, work performance in Slovenian courts. About the time we were able to read the official data that Slovenia is sinking about 2 times faster than all other countries, about the time we read the data that the number of unemployed is increasing every day, the current government managed to settle some important issues. One of these is the freezing or release of legal tariffs. The second is about to come in a short, court-martialed way. We read in the media that payments are also made in a small amount for performance, on-calls and overtime in Slovenian courts, and that these payments go also through the framework laid down in the legislation. For this reason, I am interested in the following information: Did all district courts pay off the work performance for 2008 to judges and other employees, of course, at a maximum level or lower? I want to know, how many courts have this amount been exceeded? I also want to know: Were the overtime in the district courts paid in accordance with the law, and how many in all the district courts were together? I also hear that, despite the overpayment of the court's performance in its work, something is far more successful than it has been in the past. Well, of course, it's also necessary to rent that the judges were strikers. I also hear that some judges, who also pay the performance they have been assigned, are not satisfied with the overtime and are complaining. And I want to know: Did among those three, four judges in the District Court in Ljubljana who complained against the payments they had been paid, your wife, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. First, a few principled explanations. The Courts are known to be independent budgetary consumers and therefore have all the relevant data. The Ministry does not have direct access to them. He can only get them by asking for them. This is what we did on Friday afternoon when we received your question. And the information I provide is based on the information we received from the Supreme Court. It follows from these data that all district courts, since you are asking for district courts, paid regular work performance in 2008 to the employed judges, totalling 627.405,71 euros, is the so-called second gross. From the data obtained further it follows that the District Courts in Celje, Kopr, Novi gorica, Kranju, Krškem, New City, Ptuj, Maribor, Murski Soboti and Slovenia paid the judges and other employees the work performance for 2008 to 2%. And that none of these courts would exceed the permitted height. In these courts, overtime was also paid in accordance with the law in 2008. As reported by the Supreme Court, the number of overtimes for all district courts totalled 35,738 overtime. It is also known that the Office for Budgetary Control carried out an inspection of the operations by means of the state budget at the District Court in Ljubljana and that this office, inter alia, found that this court paid its work performance even after the total labour performance mass had already been used. Payments were made this year from regular salary funds. According to the Office for Budgetary Control, this would be a violation of Article 11 of the Public Finance Act and Article 36 of the Law on the implementation of the budget. It should also be assumed from this inspection report that, despite the restrictions under Article 143 of the Labour Relations Act, the District Court in Ljubljana avoided such restrictions by paying overtime in 2009, which would constitute a violation of Article 143, paragraph 4, of the Labour Relations Act. However, I would like to point out that this report of the budgetary inspection is not yet complete, and today the Ministry of Justice has received the comments of the District Court in Ljubljana on the report, which is why, of course, it is still necessary to await the final judgment on this matter. However, under Article 67 of the Law on Courts, the Ministry of Justice has asked the President of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana to provide information on the operations of the District Court in Ljubljana, in writing and in writing, which will provide answers to certain questions relating to these findings, we can also give them temporary conclusions. Among other things, let me answer the question of how a part of the salary for regular work performance has been paid to judges, despite the fact that they have not achieved average work results during the current year. This response by the President of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana has also been received by the Ministry of Justice today, and we are still studying it. At this point, I can only say that we will certainly require certain additions, especially because this answer does not contain any assessment by the President of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. At the Ministry, however, we are preparing a comprehensive analysis, which will also include data on the extent of the work of the judges achieved. You mentioned that we are not supposed to be particularly successful judges. The Supreme Court held a different opinion at the annual press conference a week ago. This analysis should also include the amount of resources received by the judge on the basis of regular work performance and, of course, the amount and structure of absence. This analysis will thus serve as a basis for further action by the Ministry of Justice. And when you asked me about the specific names of the specific judges, the cases of the four judges are known, and my wife is also one of those judges who received the work performance that was unlawfully taken away from her.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u187	So the case looks something like this, if we simplify it; the judges have been strikes for about a year, despite the judges' statement this year, according to the figures, the state of the judicial arrears has decreased, despite the sentence, a small amount has been paid for work performance, despite the sentence being paid a little less than 40,000 overtime. That comes out of your answer. Your reply also shows that among those judges at the District Court in Ljubljana who were not satisfied with the payment of their outstanding work performance and complained, also Mrs Mojca Kocjančič Zalar. And normally, if it was convenient for the judges there, the weight of these funds to pay for this success has increased as a result. What happened? On the basis of this complaint, you have ordered a budgetary inspection, and you have sent the Office of Budgetary Control to this court to see why these funds have exceeded the quota. Thus, first the complaint, then the surplus, the MFERAC system of course stopped the story because it is so directed that it cannot pay over these percentages. Then, on your part, the budget controls happen, probably with a similar motive, as in another case, when it was the Attorney-General's case, when someone had to be publicly discredited first and then cut off in one way or another, not only in these cases, but also in the case of a number of companies. I would ask you to answer all the questions I have asked at the outset, as I have asked them in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u189	Mr. Blackach, I have answered all your questions. You asked how much overtime there was; that's what I told you. You asked me if it was over 2% of the amount of funds allowed to pay for work performance, that's what I told you. I said that the first findings, which are not yet definitive, have revealed certain anomalies in the system and I have nothing to add to it. However, I can only tell you about the overtime paid exclusively to the judges, exclusively for overtime in the framework of the on-call investigation service, which judges have to carry out under law, where it is not those types of overtime that the employer decides, but is determined by the law itself. Here is the problem in practice, and the presidents of the district courts have pointed out that the MFERAC computer system blocks payments of these overtimees in some courts, where the duty station is practically, due to the relatively small number of on-call judges, it is impossible to organise otherwise. We will now also try to resolve this issue by amending the Law on the Public Sector Wage System and the Law on Judicial Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I think that this answer needs to be discussed in the National Assembly. It's needed for a number of reasons. One of these is broader and requires the treatment of this, some kind of manipulation that is taking place around these court salaries and these sentences. However, the second point relates to the specific case. Now, in this case, dear Minister, you were, before you became Minister, long years President of this District Court in Ljubljana. I think it's been 15 years. This is the biggest court in Slovenia. You ran for this place years ago, and when you were not elected by the former Justice Minister, you used all the remedies, I think you lost your way to the Supreme Court and in this dispute. Then he was appointed president of this court, Mr Baraga. In this court there has been a number of years and apparently still, as you yourself have said, employed Mrs Mojca Kocjančič Zalar, your wife, who has already complained several times over her inappropriate assessment, in her opinion, of her work performance, and even in this case it has been so. Since this complaint was favoured by some higher Infantry, which was not affected by the President of the Court, and consequently exceeded the quota and exceeded the scope, on the basis of this complaint you ordered the budgetary inspection to go to the court to see what was going on there. And when the Court's conclusion was that the Court had exceeded the quota, you have probably now planned, in accordance with these paths, the following activities in this direction, that these are illegalities that need to be sanctioned and that the Court's leadership does not enjoy your trust, which is a popular slogan with some ministers of this new government. In addition, it is a court where there are extremely important disputes for a long time. This court has a number of media-response conflicts of economic crime, none of which have been resolved in recent years. The case of Socius stands, there are many other cases because it was a major injury because it was a case of repugnant cases, where everything should be done so that these cases would not become obsolete. And in this debate, it is necessary to determine which and how many of these cases are obsolete because they were not kept up to date. It is also necessary to determine why and in which case this court was not as effective as it should have been in the past, and in particular to answer the question: Is this surveillance that you sent to this court in any way related to your wife's complaint against her success? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Cernač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 16 June, in the framework of the vote. The Bell of Lah will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u193	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Most of the municipalities in Slovenia have active spatial acts four or more years old. The first amendment was prepared by the municipalities under the Law on the Regulation of Space, they prepared a strategy for the spatial development of municipalities and spatial order. Then the Spatial Planning Act was adopted, which stated that until then the prepared professional bases would also be useful for municipal spatial plans to replace strategy and spatial order. The final instructions for the construction of spatial plans were prepared only last October. The rules on the form and method of preparation of spatial plans were also quite late, but it is still not clear to manufacturers and municipalities what these spatial plans should look like to go through the Ministry of Environment and Space without a problem. More than half of the congregations have so far brought or made their spatial plans to the Office of Space. That's what you said before, that there are 148 spatial plans at the Office of Space. But there, with you, these things remain. My question is: What are the legal grounds for rejecting or requiring corrections at the Ministry or the Office for Space, although of a cosmetic nature, of these spatial plans? Last week, as far as I know, you're not sending them to space regulators and they're staying, there were only 10, a little more than 10 spatial plans posted on the portal, everything else stands. On the other hand, do individual referees invent certain conditions and thus require a supplement? This raises a large number of spatial plans and, of course, this deadline will not be reached. I'd like to answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Environment and Space Minister Karl Erjavec will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you for your question. I have already mentioned that the Spatial Planning Act will again be on the agenda today. First of all, I must say that the Ministry of the Environment has no interest in holding back the so-called municipal spatial plans and that it would not forward this material to the operators of the space regulation. It is true, however, that the Ministry of the Environment must ensure that these materials are adequately prepared, in an expert sense and otherwise. It should be known that the proposal for a municipal spatial plan, which we receive and then transmit later, should be prepared in seven days by the space regulators in accordance with all standards. Otherwise, it could happen to us that such a poorly prepared proposal by the UN, once it has obtained all the positive opinions, could be directly accepted on the municipal council, since the municipal council then gives only the consent. Therefore, here the Ministry of the Environment has this role to ensure that this proposal for a municipal spatial plan is in line with the rules of the profession. We know that there is a lack of executive organisations, that these are very few who are in charge of this business, and I must say, we get all kinds of things. I would not now be going into the assessment of whether it is a caprice of a referee or an official, or whether it is actually a proposal of a municipal spatial plan that is insufficiently prepared and that is why we return it to the municipality to complete it. Of course, this takes some time again to come back then complemented by the rules of the profession and mature for the space regulators to give their opinion. We have a basis for this in the General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides that the Ministry, as an administrative authority, may, if it finds that, for example, an UN proposal, if it finds that an act of the municipality is not prepared as it should be by law or by law - you have mentioned the regulations, etc. - the Ministry as an administrative authority may, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, require such an act to be supplemented and this is the legal basis we have. I hope that these rejections and returns to municipal administrations are not conditioned by some kind of caprice. I have not seen this before, but I know that some of the suggestions of the municipal spatial plans are sometimes quite poorly prepared and that we will then give instructions on what needs to be completed. If you have any particular case of capriciousness or preoccupation, I would ask you to actually warn me immediately, but sooner than earlier, you would have received a response from the mayor if you returned any proposal for a municipal spatial plan in the sense that the referee is inventing something that is not in accordance with the sub-legal acts. But it is true that this is a great deal, and it is true that all these regulations have been passed late. You said that the last October 2008 was, that is to say, when I did not perform this mandate at all, a sub-legislative act has just been prepared which sets out what is necessary in order for the spatial plan to be as expected. In this context, I will also be very careful not to needlessly return some spatial plans and thus cause some delays. You must know that as Minister of the Environment, together with the mayors, I am first interested in adopting as many of these municipal spatial plans as possible in a timely manner, although I know that we will not catch the deadline due to all these delays that have been, and also because the law is not the most optimal and certain things need to be optimised.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, supplement your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u197	We have heard that you have a legal basis in the General Law on Legal Procedure, but the lawyers to whom the municipalities turn say that the Law itself provides for procedures for the adoption of a spatial act. You cannot therefore plead against the General Administrative Procedure Act. That's what our lawyers say. I would also like to point out that many congregations have been asked to have spatial planning problems, and in one week, 80 municipalities have turned to the congregation association, of which fifty municipalities have been over the period of 50 days since the submission of the spatial act at the Office for Space. I must say that the municipalities are very burdened by this, with both the plans for development programmes and budgets adopted. They were also counting on spatial acts to be adopted in due course, so that they could start making certain investments, and now they're all falling apart. I must say that there are also a number of major projects, such as cohesion projects, where certain buildings, which do not have a building land and also an economic centre, I do not think they are burdened, are being developed as a result of these spatial acts. It is also not a decommissioned settlement, a dispersed construction between municipalities and the Ministry, nor is the Ministry of Agriculture in line with them what they are doing to certain agricultural land.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much for this additional question of yours. I must say that in ten questions I have this very question about the construction that has been dispersed, so I suggest that I answer in detail at that time because my colleague has certain questions in this regard. That's how I'd answer that. However, I must say that we have regular meetings with the mayors, and we have had quite a few meetings with both associations to get these spatial plans adopted as soon as possible. True, however, it took a very long time for us to reach these materials, including the congregations, along with the executive organizations. Now everything is focused on the Ministry of the Environment. However, it seems most important that we come to these municipal spatial plans, because for the first time in Slovenia we will actually have even Slovenia covered with spatial plans according to all standards. Also with the standards that the European Union has since Natura 2000 and more. But when this bite is over, I think there will be a lot of work to be done and we will have one good legal basis for the further development of local communities. We had to bite into that sour apple. Regardless of the fact that we now find that marriage could be even better. However, he can be smart when the law is already adopted when the provisions are being implemented, rather than when the law is being written and only provided for how to proceed. Today, we know what else needs to be done to make this process even more effective. But I think we need to insist now on all these municipal spatial plans. This will then be a good basis for municipalities to be able to plan their development more in the longer term in all the interests we have: to protect, protect the environment, protect agricultural land, protect cultural heritage, also in accordance with bird directives. Sometimes that's funny. Or a Habitats Directive. But all this is what the European Union has brought us or our membership in it. I think that everything is going in the direction of this sustainable development, which is why this planning is so important.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Zalar. On 27 March this year, a Regulation amending the Order on the number and seats of Notary cities was published in the Official Journal. With this order you have intervened dramatically into the network of Notar cities in the Republic of Slovenia and reduced them from 125 to 98. With this kind of shrinking of the network of notaries, there has been a significant decrease in access to notary services specifically in the countryside. In this way, you have strengthened their monopoly. Of course, reducing competition and increasing the monopoly is probably not in some European, modern European spirit. Because of this centralist policy, some notary offices are swamped with work, employees have notary assistants, and many environments in Slovenia are without notaries. As far as I am aware, so far no notary has bankrupted in Slovenia, so the Ministry of Justice's strange concern is that such a limitation of the number of Notary cities strengthens the monopoly of individual, already existing notaries. That is why I cannot get rid of the feeling that you have agreed to some dictatorship of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. The interests of notaries, notary chambers are simple: less is more. There are fewer notaries, fewer notary cities, more jobs, more income and, of course, more profits. However, the publicly available data, as far as they have been published in the media, shows that notary earnings are such that no one is necessarily poor among them. But since in one case, this is the case of Raven in Koroškem or Mežiške dolina, you have already come to know and acknowledge her, you have announced the return of the notary town in Ravne in Koroškem, I ask you: When can we expect a new order, a change in the order on the number of Notary City seats and how many Notary Towns you took back in March? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Zalar will answer the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. In opening, I should like to point out that the content of the question you are asking has already been addressed in very detail at the 11th urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. That was May 12th. She was summoned at the request of your fellow Member. As you are aware, the Committee has adopted some important conclusions on this issue. If this relates to the answer to your question, let me remind you that the Committee has decided to take note of this order of amendments to the Order on the number and seats of the Notary Cities and to note in this regard that no Notary City has been abolished which would have been occupied. I stress this because this hacking of the network is just a piece of paper and nothing else. The scope of access to notariat has not changed as a result. Among other things, the Committee took note of the fact that some Notary cities still remain unoccupied under this order. Especially because it turns out we have a bad marriage arrangement here. When he's once appointed and sworn, he decides when to open a notary office. Tomorrow, we can do it in three months, we can do it in 13 years. No one can force him to do it sooner. The Committee also decided to call on the Government to prepare an assessment of the adequacy of the number and distribution of notary cities and, in particular, in terms of meeting the needs for notary services, and in particular to assess why there are so many unscrupulous notary cities, which have already been listed several times. The government should therefore do so in order to find the right solution. The Ministry of Justice is preparing the implementation of this Decision, and this extensive analysis will be able to provide a comprehensive answer to these questions. With regard to the specific order, once again, it was a matter of decommissioning cities which were not occupied, so that it was not a matter of reducing access to notariat, that a network such as the law required was maintained, that there was at least one notary in each district of the district court, and that I had the criteria for determining the number of notary cities a problem arising from the time of the previous government, since the previous government and the Parliament had subsequently implemented such a solution as to abolish the legal duty of the Minister of Justice to lay down criteria for determining the number of notary cities. This is, therefore, a flaw that we plan to address at the Ministry of Justice in the future at the normative level. With regard to these issues, I would like to draw further attention to the fact that, over the last four years, the powers of notariat have been greatly reduced in various areas: from beliefs to matters relating to the company law, because notary personality has fallen away in this area of statutory law, particularly when it comes to limited liability companies and so on. In short, the volume of notary work, and not least, is also reflected in notariat income reports. Nevertheless, according to the Internal Policy Committee's decision, we will prepare this analysis. Based on this analysis, we will assess what would be the optimal network for the distribution of notariat in Slovenia. It is not excluded that, in addition to Raven, where there is a specific problem that we have identified with the mayors in the area, and it has also proved to be a poor arrangement here, that we do not have the statutory mandatory consultation of the Minister with the local communities on such a matter, so it is not excluded that another notary city will open up, in particular in conjunction with the envisaged change of jurisdiction of the courts and notaries in relation to the transfer of the legacy cases to the notariat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Sure. Minister, it was not only the unsuspecting town of Notarys that cancelled, just in the case of Raven in Koroška, because this notary town was occupied, I think from 1 October 2007 onwards. With this order you abolished it, which of course was nonsense, which you soon realized. This is the thesis when you mentioned further that in some way you are the hostage of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia because it has done this analysis for you, the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. On that basis, you went to this measure. Obviously for this chamber, if there are not thousands, tens of thousands of notary services, and if there is no turnover of millions of euros, then nothing is worth it. The Mežiška valley, with the centre of Ravna na Koroškem, is the largest legal unit in the Koroška region and is once again without a notary, and two notary towns are in Slovenj Gradc, the Thinkinska Valley, which has twenty thousand inhabitants. You put one Notary town in the Upper Drava Valley in Radlje. It would be wise to have one notary in every valley, in every center of this administrative unit. And, of course, it was interesting when you, Minister, were on Ravna, how some political cartoons hit your shoulder, how good you were when you promised to return the notariat back to Ravne, but they didn't remember that it was you who took this notariat. I would add another question, Mr Minister: To what point do you intend to leave the Notary Chamber? Is it true that in a short time you will approve significantly higher notary tariffs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? Here you go. However, you do not have to answer the additional question because it is not permissible under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u207	Although I would be happy to do so, because I would like to reject and strongly deny such indications about the planned increase in tariffs. The only change in the notary tariff we anticipate is linked to the change in the jurisdiction of the notary in legacy matters. There, however, the tariff will need to be re-established and a very dosed fee should also be fixed as an inflow of the budget. However, it is not true, Mr Member, that this notary city was previously held in Ravna. It wasn't! This notary was moved to Slovenj Gradec, Slovenia, and his town went with him to Slovenj Gradec. But it was because he had such a small scale of business that he simply couldn't survive his office there. When we talked about this at Ravnah with the mayors and with a very valued notary from Slovenj Gradc, she also said that it would be very difficult to survive here with a full notary office. For this reason, together we decided to go into an interim solution to external business, this law provides, so that Ravni is not the only place that has an external activity of a notariat at this time, but it was agreed to go to the tender and that a candidate for a notary is still being sought. The call is in progress. So far, there's no candidate. And that's a problem that's not just Raven's problem. This is a general problem in Slovenia for all these small places where these notary cities were open and there were no interested people, and sometimes the calls were repeated five times. This way we will also have this problem in the future and we can prescribe 300 notary cities in Slovenia today, but this does not mean that we will increase the availability of notariat because there are no candidates. All the candidates want is big cities. That's why he keeps this information that some incomes are really big. But only some notaries and only in large cities such as Ljubljana. But these are all the questions that we will try together, including with you, to discuss and find the best solutions when it comes to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I would nevertheless suggest that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at the next meeting, we hold a general discussion on the reply of Minister Zalar. Of course, also because of the question you mentioned, he was unable to answer now, and because I think it is still quite harmful for this country and its inhabitants to stop these notary towns in the countryside. We could say a lot about this level notary outside this hall. The fact is, this notary town did not move to Slovenj Gradec. There were already two Notary cities in Slovenia, and the previous notary retired. But the notary from Slovenj Gradac says what you mentioned, of course, it's not weird. Absolutely not. I would therefore suggest that we give the Minister the opportunity to respond to these dilemmas of Slovenian notary services around the network of notaries and also about the price of notary services at the next plenary session. I don't think we should miss this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Petk's proposal to hold a debate on the reply of Minister Zalar will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Laszló Göncz will ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I ask Mr Luksic, who we have already talked to several times about this problem. Despite the legally clearly defined role of the State in co-financing investment in pre-school education and education of the national communities, the municipalities and educational institutions have warned us that there are once again concrete difficulties in providing funding for these investments from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular as regards VAT payments. In this area, I believe that the competent services of the Ministry of Education and Sport are misinterpreted and therefore, according to my assessment, they are incoherent in respect of the rights of members of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. In a letter to the Investment Service of the Ministry of Education and Sport about one year ago, the Local Community Financing System in the Directorate for the Budget of the Ministry of Finance gave a legal opinion in the case of co-financing of the investments of the National Communities. They have found, and also refer to the opinion of the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, that the provision of Article 25 of the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education is the provision of Article 24(1) of the Law on the Financing of the Communities "lex specialis". In such a case, the rule of consistency of legal standards, "lex specialis derogat lex generali" shall apply. In this case, this means that the whole investment, including VAT, is financed from the State budget and the local community has to provide municipally equipped land for the new construction. I am aware of the difficult economic and financial situation of the country, but this fate is particularly shared by the municipalities with the national mixed population. Therefore, a derogation from the established form of financing for investments in the national mixed area would be a form of non-compliance with the legal provisions in practice, which would have a particularly negative impact on investment in national or bilingual education. That is why I ask the Minister of Education and Sport: Why are there specific problems and misinterpretations of legislation in such cases, which, in my opinion, is not legally sustainable? At the same time, Mr Minister, I ask you very much to prevent any inconsistencies in this area in particular. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u212	The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, will answer the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member Laszlo Gönch, all present! Thank you very much for the question or call; I will answer very directly. The question was: Why is this happening? That's what's happening because of the inertia. And what are we gonna do? We'll intervene, and this inertia will be no more. I spoke to the authorities. We have found that what the previous government did not take into account must be taken into account. It is important to agree with the opinion adopted by the Ministry of Finance during the previous government, among other things. From this day forward, there will be no more problems in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Transport will be raised by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government. I ask the Minister of Transport about the state of the major infrastructure projects in the area of Slovenian Istria, or according to local words in the area of the coast. In one of the previous questions received today, the Minister answered the state of preparation of the documentation and the construction of the first new track or second track itself. I want him to succeed, because this would be a big win for Koper and for the logistics that Koper and his companies are doing. In addition, because, I say, he has already answered in part, and if he wants to complement it, he is welcome, but what was said was already exhaustive. I want to know: What has been the situation of the complex project that I am aware of since the previous government: the preparation of documentation and the implementation of the Markovec tunnel, which is to link or connect the foot of the fast road to Kopra and the foot of the fast road along Izola? As we know, we are now in the renegotiating phase, where we have not recorded any steps forward in recent months, the Minister will probably be better able to tell what his vision is, how this rather complex problem should be solved. Last thing I want to know is: How are preparations for building a link between the highway and Luka Koper? As we know, we also have some problems there regarding landowners who are in this area. Problems are both legal and practical. And I want to know: Do you have any new information? Are you taking steps in this area? Will we really have to wait another year and a half for these lands to relax? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, will be in charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Luka Yuri! Construction of the new Koper-Divača track. The Ministry of Transport already presented to the Ministry of Environment and Space in July 2007 an initiative to complement the state location plan for the second railway line of Divac - Koper with an additional track. These are changes and additions to DLN. The decision to initiate the preparation of amendments and additions was taken by the Government 10. Seven. 2008 Activities related to the construction of the new Koper - Divača line are carried out in accordance with the objectives set. The goal is to make this line real as soon as possible. To this end, the phased development of the State Spatial Plan for the Two-Tier Line throughout the Koper-Divač section continues, which will allow the optimal construction and technological phases of the entire investment project to be determined in an appropriate manner. In view of the optimal use of budgetary resources and European funds, the first phase of the project documentation for the acquisition of the construction permit for the Koper - Cepišče - Črni Kal unit section is carried out in accordance with the conditions set out in the 2005 Koper - Divač State Location Plan Regulation, i.e. the existing spatial plan. The opening of bids for the production of this project documentation was 10. 6. 2009 Such an approach will avoid waiting for the completion and modification of the State site plan in a duality document which will be in line with the programme of amendments prepared by the Ministry, or is expected to be completed by 2010, but usually in these spatial acts, things will also get a little carried away. Under the tendering conditions for the construction of the already mentioned construction permit project, this year will be completed - the production time is one year - which means that the construction of the Koper - Cepišče - Black Kal unit will start as the first phase of the two-track railway in favourable circumstances towards the end of 2010. The additions and modifications to the national location and the further preparation of the project documentation are therefore required so that it is possible, as necessary, to continue to build on the Cepiště - Crni Kal - Divaca section and to make maximum use of the European Union cohesion funds available for the implementation of this project. Our fear was that if we were to complete the spatial plan process, we would simply lose valuable years to obtain the building permit, then build up, and, of course, fail to take advantage of everything the European Union has given us possibly for this part of the transport infrastructure. This means that the construction of this single link is a priority, and it is also necessary to increase the load from Luka Koper by providing additional capacity on the track and by building a new track in the direction of Trst - Divac. Such an approach will be timely and in line with the needs of new capacities and a modern link to the hinterland in Luka Koper. The selection of the operator for the Koper-Isol fast road, the Markovec tunnel, for the construction work according to Darsa's statute, has been commissioned by the Darsa board to agree on a proposal for selecting the performer for the Markovac tunnel. The Supervisory Board shall meet at its 6th session. 3. 2009 called on the company's management to request an independent expert opinion prior to the final decision on the selection of the contractor for the contract in question, namely a review of the proposed budget of the proposed tenderer. The external audit has been carried out, the report has been submitted to the Supervisory Board, and it has a meeting tomorrow. The Supervisory Board has not yet given its consent to the proposal. The linkage of Luke Koper to the motorway includes the first phase, which includes the Bertosian dam, part of the Ankaran dam with the Viaduct of Bonifika, the connecting road and the four-pass entrance to the port of Koper at a total length of 3.1 km and the second phase, which covers a steep slope of 1.6 km. The southern part of the Ankaran raid is co-financed by Dars, under the 2008 agreement. Linking Luke Koper to the highway, the first phase covering the raids and viadukt Bonifika was built and placed on the market 15. 4. 2008 The southern part of the Ankaran dam is built on the basis of a co-financing agreement between the Municipality of Koper, Luka Koper, Darsom, the Rižan water supply, Koper and Elektro Primorsko. As an investor, it is represented by the Municipality of Koper. The Municipality of Koper and Luka Koper provided projects, land and construction permits, Dars here co-financed. Construction has begun [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in 2008. [[...]] The contract deadline for the first phase, this is the execution of the registration fee for the carriage of vehicles, is 31. 12. 2009, for the second phase, this is the completion of the upper structure, and it is 31. 12. 2010 The hands are hard to reach because it is necessary to take at this time [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u219	I would like to thank the Minister for almost Swiss punctuality and I would like to complement the answer to give him the opportunity to complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u221	The construction started in 2008, the contract deadline for the first phase, this is the performance of the registration fee for the transport of vehicles, is 31. 12. 2009, for the second stage of the upper structure, i.e. for sidewalks and utilities, it is 31. 12. 2010 As I said, the hands are difficult to reach, because at this time the necessary possession of the embankments must also be carried out, which is the specificity of this construction. Let me just say something about deadlines. This is very important if you allow, in general, the construction of highways, not to rush, despite the desire to do so as soon as possible. It's already showing us that experts are already warning me that fast construction on the pomurski leg is something that will make us have problems. I hope it doesn't. However, too quickly building in the desire to achieve the previous results can sometimes be such that the infrastructure is not as quality as it could be and then causes this additional urgent investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Does Mr Franci Kek want to ask the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. I would like an oral response from the Minister at the next meeting. But I wanted to ask him: Has he taken any appropriate action in view of the situation in the nearby neighbourhood where the gas terminal investor in Žavaje is rapidly obtaining permits? In view of the projected negative cross-border impacts already identified by the Interdepartmental Commission of the previous government in January 2007, Slovenia has the opportunity to protest against this establishment. I certainly expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Minister Žbogar will answer Mr Kek's question orally at the next meeting. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! The government has apparently sought a new but controversial form of self-promotion of the government and ministers, in cooperation with the private newspaper company Delo, which is associated with friendly companies owned by the majority of the Pivovarna Laško. That is how you, Mr Education and Sport Minister, during the election campaign for the European elections, appeared on the mega posters of the company Delo on the 50th anniversary of the release of the newspaper Delo. It is possible to understand the interest and motivation of private society, to seek the dismay of ruling policies and to integrate them into the interests of owners. Nor is it surprising that at the time of the electoral campaign, an officer, in a subtle way, communicates his political preferences to the electoral body and that he works for the client, even though he declares himself an editorially independent and autonomous house in public. However, there has been an unwritten rule so far that ministers and top politicians are not so strongly involved in the commercial promotion of private companies in the field of the media. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister for Education and Sport, and the Government to explain the broader background of such cooperation. I also ask: Who are the other ministers who will attend these kind of pianist receptions? I ask: What is the reward or payment for such cooperation? There are some answers to this question in public. Firstly, in exchange for cooperation, an agreement has been reached on friendly reporting on periodic coverage with large interviews during the term of office, as we have seen in the last issue of the Saturday annex of Del. And secondly, it seems that the party of the Social Democrats did not evaluate the election of Vice-Presidents at the Congress of Social Democrats in the newspaper Delo and other newspapers and comments under the heading "The Victory of Youth". At that time, the victory of candidate Miran Ptræ over 25 years of age, over you, Minister Igor Lukšič, in Del and in other newspapers, was declared the victory of youth, which caused irony and ridicule in the public. Now it is necessary to change the impression among young students. It is therefore the Minister's present advertising fee for awkward comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport will answer questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u227	Presidents, Members of Parliament! Mr Joseph Jerovšek, thank you for the question. These photographs, which appeared on the so-called "jumbots", caused quite a bit of jealousy. So now it was only a matter of time before this issue came to the fore in the political circles as well. So all these hints, what could be behind it, what's really in the front, are possible, and this imagination, of course, has no limits. But the story is next. Work celebrates for 50 years. For this EPP, which I am working here, of course, I now apologize to everyone for being responsible for it by a colleague from the SDS. But okay. Work celebrates for 50 years, with May 1st it started. As Minister of Education, I was asked if I could support this action, which is interesting to me as Minister of Education in two segments. First time. They want 50 scholarships in support of schoolchildren, children in school. And a second time. They want to promote reading with this action. Reading is the way to knowledge and thus the possibility of accessing the objectives set. And only in these two segments did I assess as Minister of Education that it was a synergy, also a support for reading a newspaper that has been named here several times, but it is a support for a broader action of greater reading and reading in general. So that was my motive. As you know, there is no payment in fair policy. The only payment, of course, is that you noticed, I thank you for that. The action will continue, so it is not over with these elections, continue, in the coming months, and this seems good to me - to promote in the crisis, that companies think in the long term and others decide to grant scholarships. And, of course, reading. More reading. In fact, reading is also a way to listen and then to some deeper analysis that can lead to real insight into the state of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Sam, who has been addicted to reading newspapers and following up on publicity since his early childhood, would understand this argument that this is the only motive for promoting reading the newspaper. However, as I say, since I have been very meticulous with the media since childhood, at least two newspapers a day before I went to high school, I read, so I know that no authority has ever allowed itself to run an election campaign for my client. However, in this synergy, I believe that this synergy was to achieve effects on elections, promote its own party and its own candidates, and this seems quite unacceptable to me. These private companies can promote reading in other ways. And because of that, Mr. Minister, I have really asked you about an explanation of the background, the real background of such a marketing, pianistic promotional advertising house. I'm sorry I didn't get that answer. This is an abuse of the Ministry of Education and Sport for client purposes and an interference with the declared independence of the media and editorial policy. These are, of course, very dangerous movements. And when you say that the only payment is in politics, I try to take your word for it. But we know that there are politicians in your government who don't believe in words. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Minister, would you like to make an additional reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u231	I am certainly honored to have you believe in my word; I hope that this will continue until the end of my term, there is no reason not to do so as far as I am concerned. Actually, I don't have anything else to say or add to what I said. Well, there's no background, I don't know him. My ambition is only to support something that is also the effort of my department. And if there are other houses or anyone else willing to invest in an action that promotes reading, sports, knowledge, I'm going to let myself be reduced. It's harder, as you know, in cases where no one asks you, it still puts you on the cover and does its campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u233	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is difficult to let go of the argument that any jealousy is involved. These are very important issues of involvement in editorial policy, in the independence of the media. As I said, I understand private companies, newspaper houses to take care of their promotion in this way, but these are too fateful questions in society about media independence and freedom of speech. These are so crucial questions that this phenomenon and such behaviour must certainly be held in an extensive debate, with which I hope we will also come to all backgrounds and movements. Once again, I know that it was somehow ordered from your party to write about the victory of youth, but the whole thing turned ugly and turned out to be a little funny. I know things are getting better, but all this needs to be taken into account and discussed. I propose that a general discussion be held on the basis of Article 246(2). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovska's proposal to hold a debate on the response of Minister Igor Lukšić will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Will you ask the absent Minister for Work, Family and Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will ask the oral question of Parliament and I want the Minister to answer me at one of the next meetings, because the question is of wider importance and I think it is good to have a discussion on this issue. We have already passed the full-time subsidy law and the law is already being implemented. However, data from the field shows that there are increasing cases of a desire to abuse its original purpose. The original aim was to ensure that companies in difficulty, which somehow provide three, four working days a week, have production or are covered by sales, work with some part-time and are subsidized to avoid qualified workers going elsewhere or landing on the road. Because of course this is "money for nothing", money for free, of course companies on a lot of startups and run for this money. And we're already hearing data that such companies that have continuous production, seven days a week, 24 hours a day, get these funds and draw them out. I wonder: How can an ironworks that has a beach on fire run so much and so many times a day, or is it set on fire after 60 hours on Thursday night? Of course, it's not technically possible. Such production facilities benefit from these assets and are not just an example of ironworks. There are many such cases that have four alterations, continuous production. There are some factories I know on the ground that really stopped production on Thursday, maybe did repairs and started on Monday. But there are also many who abuse it. And I hear from some of the employees in some factories that they also want to run. Another example is that the company pays sixty - forty hours, the workers work 48 hours, the rest goes on overtime, which, of course, cannot be paid or spent hours. These examples would, of course, be logical if, where there is continuous production, a so-called weekend shift would be introduced, which amounts to a new 36 hours, given that Sunday is stimulated by a higher percentage there, say [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] 150. [[...]] Therefore, I ask the Minister: How will you prevent the act of full-time subsidisation law and which services will deal with the problem? I want an answer to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will give you an oral answer at the next meeting. The word has magic. Majda Potrat for a question to the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! To you, Mr. Minister, Dr. Igor Luksic, I address the question: What activities are being or are being planned to make more effective use of the resources of the Economic Social Fund for the implementation of the development priority for human resources development and lifelong learning set out in the Operational Programme 2007-2013? Why do not the project operators of the Economic Social Fund recognise the eligibility for the reimbursement of the material costs incurred in the implementation of the projects? Let me make this my question a little bit more clear. Mr. Minister, I consider you to be a man who puts knowledge at the heart of social events and a movement for development. In this context, lifelong education is central. I am therefore convinced that you know some systemic problems that also face human universities in the implementation of lifelong education projects. However, when we are talking about drawing on funds from the Economic Social Fund, it is important to note that there are two priorities: improving the quality and efficiency of systems and improving the individual's skills for a total of EUR 47 million and several million. So far, however, the drawback or at least the calls for this is slightly over €18 million. The question that logically arises is: Why is there no willingness to consistently draw on European funds in an area as important as the day-to-day growing number of unemployed, the development of human resources? To illustrate, the Ministry of Education and Sport has so far only issued 4 tenders at this address when it announced 11 calls. In last year, only 7% of the funds were earmarked. I ask because even for this year, things do not show anything better, so how to go forward. Of course, I am aware that as Minister of Education and Sport alone, regardless of good intentions, you cannot arrange this, but that some of the changes in the ministry you are leading are also necessary. I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u239	Madam President, honourable Ambassador Majda Potrate, Members of Parliament! This government, we have slowly found out, has inherited a very insufferable system of fund-raising. Also, the ministry, which is now shown after six months, has had a very, I say, nice, inescapable system of relations about who decides, when decides, what decides, etc. The clamps were stacked to the point of disability. Therefore, it was necessary to gradually identify where these clamps were taking place. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that new guidelines should be written both at the Regional Development Authority and at the Ministry. These instructions now go to the end at the end of June, they will enter into force in early July. Then the whole process. The government had already taken immediate action to draw funds, we had special meetings in December, and then the district ministers, in January, in February, we dealt with this in particular, watched where things were stuck. From government level to individual ministries, we have taken some steps. At my ministry this past month, we have redeployed people who were competent to lead this area, of course, in the hope that things will go better now. This is a problem that you are pointing out, also because universities are in a very difficult situation because the calls that should have been published years ago have not come to the publication until late 2007 or early 2008. So he threatens them not to survive these difficult times. I am aware of this problem, I have done what is in my power, and the government has done what is in its power. That's why I hope these things turn out. Why do I say that, I hope? Because from the beginning when I started doing this and when the government started doing this, we kept running into new problems, solving them, but now it shows that we finally got to a chain. That is, from how we decide on priorities and calls, how we process the whole call through government machinery, to how we react well to the requests submitted by operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Please welcome Mrs Majda Potter for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Your answer shows exactly where the clamps are coming from. We have recently monitored this information on project learning for young people and the risk that this project will be put out because the public university or contractors are no longer able to obtain credit or to provide their own resources for the implementation of the programme, which is proving to be an extremely good practice and which is confirmed and heard from the environment as well. I am confident that you will take advantage of the debate on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth to present to us some other details concerning the situation and systemic regulation of the financing of public universities, when we discuss this at the June meeting and thus continue the topic that we have opened up the following year, and then in 2010 at least we could find that we have provided human universities with a solid foundation in their extremely important mission. I thank you, as I say, for that. But it would be inappropriate for you to ask an additional question. But more satisfaction will overwhelm me when the problems are resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister, for there was no request for an additional reply. Mr Guido Kres has the floor. He will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! When we adopted the guarantee scheme law in the National Assembly, I expected that this would be a measure that would help the Slovenian economy quickly and effectively. I have data that I cannot say for sure when some entrepreneurs have already tried to use when they say that banks are not very interested in participating in this call and business under this guarantee scheme. If this is true, then this problem will remain and we can still expect business to cease. Mostly small and medium-sized. I think if this is happening, the government here should act with authority. Getting money is the biggest problem at this time. Paying discipline is terrible. There's no money. Even if an entrepreneur acquires a job, because of the inability to finance a project or a business, the business is cancelled and workers are also begging for employment. I believe that it is imperative that the economy be assisted at this time, because these measures are certainly important for the existence of this economy, which is crucial for the resuscitation of the crisis and also for further economic development. While I am pleased that some of the calls are successful, things are running and, contrary to some, I must say that this subsidisation of part-time work has also been very helpful in my environment. Although in some countries they probably do not know the measure or not to a large extent, once again I ask the Minister: Is there any possibility that, at the time when this guarantee scheme is to take effect, it will also go to a possible moratorium on the return of the principal of the leased loans? This would make it much easier to work, because otherwise it is necessary to follow the path of bureaucracy. In this case, I think that this would be easier to stop, maybe give a moratorium on two years to pay off the principal, the interest would be paid off, and in such a case it would be significantly easier, faster, more efficient and even less difficult to overcome this issue and help the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u244	Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you very much to the honourable Member, Mr Guid Kres, for asking the question. Given that you are asking what are the chances of allowing entrepreneurs to repay their loans, for example for two years, I must say that, in fact, none of the European countries or countries of the European Union has implemented this measure in order to go to a general moratorium, because this would be virtually impossible, and the administrative implementation of such a measure would in fact be almost impossible. In this case, it would also be a matter of replacing these funds in bank balance sheets. Of course, you are right when you say that the credit crunch is not letting up, so I can say that this week's first tender will be under the guarantee scheme where the SID Bank will make this auction, I think it is expected that on Friday, where a total of EUR 300 million will be allocated at the first auction, a circus of EUR 100 million to companies with a rating price of A, a hundred million to companies with a rating price of B and a hundred million Euros with a rating price of C reached in the middle of last year, that is, before the worst wave of the crisis. The auction will take place in such a way that banks will be able to notify and bid, with the state vouching for a maximum of 80% of the loan, so the guarantee will be limited to 80% and the banks will have to give at least 20% of the guarantee in the worst case scenario, from the point of view of the state, or bid for more. The Bank, which will bid more, will have a greater opportunity to obtain an appropriate quota of funds. At the SID Bank, these quotas will be distributed as soon as possible, according to the auctioned, and the banks will thus receive the basis for a whole range of new loans, where the guarantee will also be given by the State up to, as I said, a maximum of 80%. As far as banks are concerned, whether they are interested in it or not, it depends largely on how many banks are engaged, whether they are interested in a long-term existence, a long-term market share in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. If they do, then I think they're going to take part in this scheme. Within this scheme is also intended, I think that around €20 million, the Minister of Finance will correct me if I don't remember the data correctly, including reprogramming some loans or transforming some short-term loans into medium- and long-term loans. At present, there is a major problem that very many short-term loans, as you correctly see, cannot be returned by companies, and this effect of the moratorium would also be achieved by transforming these short-term loans into medium- and long-term loans. This is, of course, one of the basic ideas, but I must say that the European Commission has had a lot of comments here since the beginning. As you know, we are also delaying this measure mainly because we have been waiting for the European Commission's green light, whether in these cases State aid is unlawful or not, is it, in the light of the rules of the European Single Market, allowed or not. We got this green light on Friday, and this week the SID will make its first auction. Which banks will apply and which we do not know at this time, and we will see at the auction itself, but of course it also depends on the interest of their committees. However, I think that any bank that wishes to treat its customers responsibly, its customers and, last but not least, its owners will apply for this auction because, last but not least, the state is offering it a hand to actually enter into this guarantee scheme in a way that the real state takes part of the risks itself. We will see - I think on Friday, as I said, the first auction - what will be the result and which banks will participate. I expect that at least both banks that are majority owned by the State will participate in this auction and will also actively help to allocate these funds to the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres, please. Request for additional response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u247	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Yes, it is, because that is exactly what I fear or fear most because we know that they have also rented loans from banks that are not owned by Slovenia, for example, by the corporate bank. Right here is the problem and the fear of taking advantage of it and taking it. That is why I thought if there was any greater pressure on these banks to do so, because this is about helping the economy, and this is how the case is launched. Also with an answer and a way of thinking about changing credit into long-term loans - I think there is really a point in here where it can be found and helped. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity; I meet these entrepreneurs daily, I get various suggestions on how and what to ask. I must say, from the other hand, it's never original. And I ask you, Mr. Secretary, Would it be possible to visit our entrepreneurs in Lithuania and bring one really good-quality debate on this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u249	Look, I've been walking around Slovenia a lot. I was here today in a frenzy, in the National Assembly, because I attended a meeting of coastal economists and then I was late because roadblocks are just like them. Above all, I think that it is important and necessary for the Government, in the light of the example of the previous Government, to maintain the practice that has been good. And that's the fact that the government went out on the field. I have always welcomed the practice of the previous Government here, and I expect this government to continue with this practice. Something has already been promised in this direction, and in the context of these meetings, I think it is precisely these opportunities to look into the eyes and then look together at the possibilities that the Government can still help. I'd really like to say that you're very right. In fact, you're asking a reasonable question. In fact, the problem of these short-term resources is that I think it is a great achievement and I also commend the Ministry of Finance that it has somehow managed to achieve with the European Commission that some of these funds, 1.2 billion, can in fact also be earmarked for the reprogramme, is that these short-term loans are converted into medium- and long-term loans. But the truth is, we can't force the bank to go to this auction. However, they have the right, whether or not the Slovenian State owns the majority, to participate in an auction with all the banks that are actually residents in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that the bank of San Paolo IMI also think that if it is this bank or former Banka Koper and other foreign banks, which are mostly owned by foreigners, for example, the SKB, the Unicredit, then the former Krekova bank and so on. Of course, all of them can apply to this scheme. The measure is not discriminatory. Of course, this measure relates to a portfolio of credits which has been issued in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's how I expect them to sign up for this. It would be extremely surprising because it would be illogical if they did not use this option or then the committee of these banks must ask themselves whether they are with the relevant bank or whether it is time to look for these additional resources or at least try to find them in competing banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole will raise the question to the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Hello, Madam Ministers, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues. I ask Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Environment and Space. The Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible for placing base stations' locations in a room for mobile telephony. Since it is all too often that mobile operators set up base stations in violation of construction and location permits, there is dissatisfaction of people and concern for health by the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. As one example, I would like to mention the installation of the base station of the antenna for mobile telephony in Bela krajina in the Vašje field, on agricultural land in the immediate vicinity of the village of Dragatuš and the landscape park of Lahinj. That base station in the form of a metal structure of the tower due to its appearance and to the health of the harmful operation of electromagnetic wave and the legally disputed way of setting does not belong to that location, as stated or mentioned in the Administrative Court judgment of December 2008, since construction was not allowed to meet all the criteria prescribed by law. The municipality of Črnomelj also stated in the location information that this type of facility does not belong in this area on agricultural land. In the past year, a proposal for an amendment to the construction of such buildings was also tabled by the Committee of the villagers Dragatuš, so that the parties would also be representatives of local communities, i.e. local communities and municipalities, in the process of obtaining the building permit. After the current legislation, only the Ministry of Environment and Space shall decide on the issue of a building permit for the installation of base stations in the mobile telephone area. However, this example is not the only one in the Republic of Slovenia, so I ask you, Mr. Minister: What measure is the Ministry of the Environment and the area for the correction of errors in the placement of base stations in space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The answer will be Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u253	Thank you for your question. I am sorry that you did not mention the Dragatush case to me on the question of the Member States because I know that we are dealing with it. I would like to say, however, that the Construction Act provides for the construction or construction of base mobile telephone stations, in order to obtain a building permit. With regard to the building permit, let me say that there are two levels of building permits: one is issued by administrative units and sometimes by the Ministry of Environment and Space when it comes to building on the basis of State spatial plans. However, I must say that most of these base stations of mobile telephony are set up on the basis of municipal spatial plans, and in this case the administrative unit is responsible for issuing the building permit. And if I am right in my memory, it is precisely in the case of Dragatush where the administrative unit issued the building permit on the basis of the information or basis given in the municipal spatial plan. I also know that an administrative court judgment has been issued, but I am afraid that this building permit cannot be abolished because the procedure has been corrected because such information has been issued by the municipality and then an administrative authorisation has been issued on the basis of this. But I must say that I speak from memory, because it has been a few months since I was aware of this particular matter. However, I can provide you with written information that these facts will be very accurate - and I can say in general: in most municipal spatial plans, such base mobile stations are set up on agricultural land, because this is also a spatial plan, because it depends - so that we can even find the right place so that the mobile station can function properly. I must say that from an environmental point of view there are no major problems here, because these radiations, which are also due to the operation of mobile phones base stations, are in line with environmental regulations and have not shown any major radiation that could harm people's health, so there are no obstacles here. And also on the basis of EU rules, the placement of base mobile phone stations is not considered to be an intervention that would require a specific environmental impact assessment, because it does not belong to environmental interventions that could harm health, although we know that a very large debate is open here, but is currently in this area. What is the Ministry of the Environment preparing to remedy errors in the installation of base stations? I have to say, we're not making anything special because it's not a mistake. If the municipal spatial plan permits such installation, then it is not possible to obstruct the procedure for issuing the building permit. Thus, the Ministry of the Environment can only proceed if such a mobile base station is set up without a building permit, that is to say that it is not foreseen in the spatial plan, in which case there is a possibility of a construction inspection, which shall be carried out within the framework of the Environment and Space Inspection, that the decision will require removal and, in accordance with the procedure followed by execution if the person who has set it does not. In most cases, however, building permits are in line with spatial plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u255	Mr Minister, it is precisely as regards the statement that the local community is not in this case - here I have indicated by the people present there, where the representative stated that when issuing this permit in some way, they have bypassed the location information issued by the municipality of Črnomelj and it says that such an object does not belong in this area. In this particular case, it was not quite so, so I would politely ask you for a written answer, as you said. And I think it would be real here, for example, if I read people's statements in the media and they say, "These are people in White Ljubljana who are far from reality." And then, it's about what? If there is no involvement of local communities, i.e. the people living in the area, or those living in the area - because it is also different in Slovenia - so that these exceptional cases, which are specific, can also be asked about the opinion of the local community. This would also be a proposal for further work, if possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u256	Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u257	With regard to the specific case, I will provide written information. However, I must say, after memory - and I think that I am not being deceived - the congregation gave some document or some consensus on the basis of which it was established. But it is true that the people who live there were not aware of it. However, I will give you written information because I do not know all the exact data from my head, but I do have in mind that the people living near this building were not familiar with it, and it is believed from the congregation that agreement was given that a building permit could then be issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the ministers and to all those who insist! My question would be next, and I'll explain it later. In what way and how can you influence access to funds to recapitalise businesses so that these funds can come to businesses with promising and technologically updated programmes? Indeed, recapitalisation is primarily intended for companies to expand, take over targets, create higher added value and new jobs. Of course, all too often there are other phenomena, namely, the national rescue of companies that are in trouble and do not have any prospects of putting out fires or putting money into a bottomless bag instead of creating new added values. And then, of course, all of this is known on the bad balance sheets of companies or banks and the final phase, in addition to all the other phenomena that our banks receive, there are bad balance sheets of banks that are eventually saved by taxpayers. A fine example of recapitalisation is, for example, my experience from Sava Tires years ago, when we invested in two projects, Optima 1 and Optima 2, each time with loans, of course foreign, after 50 million then stamps, which today would give 50 million euros to fast-calculated ones. We have set up a technology line worth 10 million euros and so on. Requisitive projects, one year of introduction of such technology. What was the result? The company acquired at book value, the book value increased. The company stayed in the game because the competition was ruthless. The company switched to products with higher added value, to the production of more demanding self-adhesives, for higher speed classes and for higher price, because it had previously been on the level of tyres for the carousel and for the "fichota". So all these moments have also shown the current state that the money wasn't thrown away, that it was used wisely. On the other hand, by recapitalising some of them and investing in them, instead of cutting off some agony with a decisive cut and shifting workers to other programs, they would start off with the same money, which has been thrown away, on some criteria, into other, more promising productions. So the question is: How can the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a minister, or how can it influence that these funds go in the direction of progress, not in the direction of extinguishing the fire or throwing money out the window?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u261	Thank you very much. As you probably know, in the context of measures to address the consequences of the financial and development crisis, we are preparing a whole series of recapitalisations and various channels for these recapitalisations. In some cases, subsidies in support of R & D in large enterprises are easy. Here we work on so-called centres of excellence, which allow for continuous promotion of development in individual parts of the Slovenian export-oriented economy. In the second part, it is a direct promotion of investments in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is what you have experienced in Sava Tires; at the time, state aid rules have not been as strict as we have now. These options are now largely small or medium-sized enterprises that operate to a lesser extent in the European market and thus do not cause such aid to cause too much disruption to the functioning of the single European market and to alter competitiveness. This is through the Ministry of Economics, where companies acquire state funds for individual investments. In this context, the geographical economy and the state aid provided by European standards in this activity are also encouraging the arrival of foreign capital. In this context, our country has already supported the construction of the new Renault factory in Revoz in the past and will reiterate this by opening additional jobs. Finally, we have a special restructuring company for those companies that are in difficulty, a company that is now specifically formed by the so-called PDP or the Restructuring Company, a special restructuring company that will be recapitalised by Kad to recapitalise and by these means we will revive healthy cores in certain companies and enable them to develop further. In some companies that have invested in particular due to manager's purchases - a typical example is the Primorska Meat Industry - it has turned out that the country should react first and does not have legal leverage. That is why we have also adopted this measure, which you, I think, at one of the previous meetings, also legally enabled - this is the funding of employees while waiting. It is said that the Ministry of Labour or the State through the Ministry of Labour can enter the company and enable the normal survival of people who can then, after the bankruptcy process has been completed, restructure or operate again in this company. We're hoping this project will come to an end. There will probably also be some recapitalisation or search for new resources, and then we will also be able to obtain quality companies from those whom we believe are sick, which are mainly due to managers' purchases or mismanagement. Some will be about the same size, others will be smaller or divided into several smaller ones, depending on the size of the restructuring. In short, we have enough leverage, we are working on enough sides, and we think that at the end of the crisis we will come out significantly stronger than we came into the crisis. This is not a phrase, I must tell you that very careful analysis is being done, which of the economies, or a large set such as the United States, the European Union, Japan, China, maybe Russia, Brazil, will come out of the crisis stronger and worse and which will be weakened. This is then done for countries within the European Union. And depending on what measures, how much development-intensive measures we will take, it also depends on what we will be called the centres of global economic power, how we will then acquire capital, and how quickly we will be able to raise our standard of living after the crisis is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl, supplementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I think the minister answered me most of the questions, but he touched on one question that I'm still interested in. He mentioned foreign funds. I want to know: What is the European Union's share? We once discussed on the Committee on European Union Affairs that Europe is preparing for segments. I know that there were billions of euro in the broadband network, I think five or six into the automotive industry and so on. Are we involved in these segments by combining European funds perhaps with our own, and by these 'boxes', as the European Union gives them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u265	Thank you very much. It's two structures. The first are the direct funds of the European budget. Here we have almost fully awarded the structural funds through calls to promote centres of excellence, which will be added - and it will be quite - either from own resources or from old resources, in particular those going for other purposes. Now the question is whether regional development would be at risk. First, more resources will have to be found. In addition, we will still need to obtain resources from the European budget to modernise the trans-European corridors - rail, energy and telecommunications. There are still tasks ahead of us to obtain the additional resources that this budget gives. The other thing is, you've probably talked about it, but the European Investment Bank's loans are. We are members of the European Investment Bank, and we are already preparing credit lines for around €350 million, for various purposes, to promote regional development, the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and the technological restructuring of the car cluster. The following are earmarked for 80 million loans, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises in this area, while two large, Cimos and Hidria, negotiate separately for up to 100 million Euros of additional credit for technological restructuring. I expect Gorenje to enter a similar regime. Mainly, we agree with the Director of the European Investment Bank, Mystadt, that he will also open appropriate structural and ecological restructuring credit lines for the final producers of white technology. In this case, Gorenje would also be likely to have a large enough amount of development credit to further improve the quality of their products and to enter higher price standards. In addition, we now provide loans with a guarantee scheme for the normal financing of assets within a period of three to five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister for Environment and Space will be put by Mr Darko Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleague of Members and Members! Have a nice hello again. It's a question of a scattered construction. When preparing new municipal spatial plans, the existing legislation separates dispersed settlement and scattered construction. In the case of scattered construction, as well as in the case of scattered unburied buildings, their intended use will change, in such a way that the building land in these areas will be converted into non-constructional land, that is to say agricultural use. The value of these lands will consequently decrease to the detriment of their owners. The provision should be constitutionally assessed and, in the event of its indisputability, the Ministry of Environment and Space should consider compensation for owners. I ask the Minister: How will the Ministry address the issue of reducing the value of land and damaging their owners in cases of scattered construction or dispersion, when it is necessary to change the dedicated use of unbuilt buildings? Next question: What are the tolerances for such cases? Who's supposed to pay back the damage to the damaged owners? And in particular: Who is the municipality of Šostanj supposed to compensate for damage due to degraded territory due to mining - is this supposed to be a mine, a thermal power plant or a state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u269	Thank you for today's other questions on your part, so we're very active. Both issues concern the Spatial Planning Act. First of all, who's gonna make it up to you. Here is the principle that the cause of the injury shall be returned. So in the first place, the cause, then maybe the subsidiary state. With regard to dispersal of construction, you know that the Spatial Planning Act is written in such a way as to impede dispersal of construction due to the problem of protecting agricultural land. This was also one of the main aspects, the objectives of this spatial planning law, to try to focus construction in space on concentrated settlements, within settlements, to try to find all those fillings, free spaces, those degraded lands. We know that there are many such situations when we had some industrial zones that have collapsed and are today degraded areas and that modern housing, commercial construction is supposed to be directed to these lands. You have opened a very interesting dilemma that when a land that has the status of a walled land loses its status as a result of the municipal spatial plan. What does that mean? I must say, probably those who wrote this spatial planning law also studied this constitutional aspect. I do not believe that they have gone into such provisions without giving a good thought to what it means to change their status in the opposite direction. We know that we are turning agricultural land into building land, now it is said to be habitable land, and rarely to return, unwalled land back to agricultural land. However, the law gives this possibility. And I must say, this is some kind of expectation of these landowners. You know that in practice it happens many times, especially when it comes to motorways, that some buy such land as agricultural land on stock and then we have big public debates where the route should run and there are also various civil initiatives that want to pave a route because they have some expectations that such land might be sold at a better price. I must say that the change in the use of space itself does not constitute an infringement of property rights, so I doubt that they could have achieved constitutionally that they have suffered some damage as a result of this expectation. I speak the arguments that were given when these articles were adopted under the Spatial Planning Act. And it is considered that the acquired right is when a legal building permit is issued, irrespective of what the spatial plan envisaged. Just waiting, just predicting a spatial plan doesn't mean any right, because a reverse direction is also possible. And you know that we do not have enough agricultural land in Slovenia. It is also true that we are growing very much, but the intensity of spatial planning is going in this direction, so that we can protect agricultural land to the greatest extent possible. Whether the agricultural land will ever be as valuable as the habitable land in the future, I don't know. Perhaps when food is badly lacking, these prices can be evened out. But at this point, my answer is that these owners will not receive any compensation if the status of land changes unless they succeed in the Constitutional Court, then later in the European Court of Justice, because they will probably attack that they are being deprived of one of their fundamental human rights, that is property rights, and that this has been reduced due to the change in the status of land. But if we look at it realistically, they didn't give anything to get [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'd just like to shed some light on our case, in a few words. We have a specific situation in the municipality of Šostjanj with regard to the scattered construction, since the construction of the thermal power plant in the city and the impact of mining forced people to move outside the village. Thus, even the country supported the dispersed construction in this case in order to solve this problem. In addition, we have an influential mining area in the Scottish municipality, which covers about three times the size of the city. Since the mining area is still collapsing, it is inappropriate for any use. Building sites that have existed in this area so far will be deleted from the new municipal spatial plan, which means that the municipality of Šostanj will also lose compensation for the use of building land in this area, which has so far been the only compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Additional answer, Minister, although there was no question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u273	I'd like to give you another explanation. However, I must say that the Spatial Planning Act also allows for certain exceptions. Now I do not know how the procedure for the municipal spatial plan for the congregation of Šostjanj will proceed, but this does not mean that the door is closed. There are certain exceptions, because Slovenia is embossedly very different and somewhere it is not possible to force it into a concentrated construction, I will mention many times, for example, Haloze, there I do not imagine. Because if we make it happen, people will probably move out. That's typical, say, of wine-growing areas. There is also a specific case here, and this will be demonstrated by the procedure itself. At this point, I would not hope to predict what will happen to these buildings, whether the status will change or not, but this is a matter of professional concern. But the exceptions are possible, that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Transport will be asked by Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Surely in Prekmurje, we hear, the life of citizens along such a main road is very painful and this part of the highway must be built as soon as possible. Members also receive these initiatives. But this traffic is mainly caused by foreign trucks - transit, which travels through Slovenia and destroys our roads. Not that we're trying to say that somewhere else we don't have to build a highway. However, in Dolenjska, this unbuilt highway prevents the development of companies such as Revoz and Krka, which employ thousands of workers who have already been promised a highway in 2006 and then 2008 and now 2009, we know that even at the end of this year it will not be built, it will be close and probably will not be built. I decided to ask myself this question because I see some danger that the construction of this highway could take another month or six months. Towards two parts of the subsections of Pluska - Ponikve and Ponikve - Hrastje, Dars has not yet acquired two lands that are already obstructing only construction. This would probably have been better if this had been arranged. As this land acquisition has been going on for quite some time and the problem I know, the local community has also been involved and we wanted to do everything possible to get this situation resolved as soon as possible. In the case of the municipality of Mirna knež, the citizen of Lužar, who lives in this house, is already relieved, but the process of emigration on the legal path itself, lawyers say, can be prolonged and can also cause construction to stop there. One of the solutions was also - or his demands - that the congregation was also trying to meet with its spatial act. Since construction is taking place, thank God, intensively, I wonder: Is it already determined at the Ministry of Transport or Dars, which way is it supposed to go about acquiring this land? This land is said to be seriously threatened by the construction of this part of the road if it is not obtained within two months.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Delays which prevent the investor, despite the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of a motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia, from obtaining construction permits in a timely manner, resulting from unacquired land, are as follows. The property of unknown owners or unknown heirs is one example where, under the law on marriage and family relations, a guardian is appointed as a special case. If, for example, there is no residence, if not known, or if it is an unknown owner, if he is likely to be alive, but not for the person who has died and the last entries in the land book show that there is a likelihood that he is not alive. In the event that owners and heirs are not known what is being investigated on the ground, through municipalities, archives, churches and consular offices, in the case of displaced persons, and offers for the purchase of real estate cannot be served, which means that it is not possible to introduce a decommissioning procedure and thus obtain the documents necessary for the building permit. As a result of the personal data protection law, the investor is not able to obtain any data from the official home records, if any. Thus, the original information is the entries in the land book, and older entries often have no birth or residence data. In the case of an unknown owner, it is possible, under the current legislation, to declare a missing person dead, for which it is necessary to have at least the information which will justify: birth data, last residence data, death, birth certificates, documents and the like, otherwise the proposal is rejected. Uncompleted judicial or enforcement procedures and unspecified succession procedures. The succession procedures are not led by a proposal, which means that if the property in the denationalisation process has been returned to the unknown owner and the heirs are not known, there is no proposer for the initiation of the succession process. Various judicial procedures, due to the above-mentioned exclusion bans, have convinced that the property acquisition procedure could begin at all. Unfinished denationalisation and non-execution, although a special provision is applicable to motorways, to be confirmed as evidence of the availability of real estate for the acquisition of a building permit in such cases, Commissions should be carried out in order to carry out a plot and to initiate procedures for the acquisition of real estate on the basis of a contract or by decommissioning. In the case of uncompleted denationalisation procedures, compensation relations cannot be concluded and they are therefore transferred to new decades. The unregulated state of property which should be entered as State property is the following. Lands that are, say, in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. Due to the still unregulated transfers of land to the Fund between registered holders of the right of use, these are usually tenants and municipalities, as well as unmanaged denationalisations, still require extensive documentation: historical land registers, denationalisation certificates, multiple certificates of destination to legal dates in order to make transfers to the Republic of Slovenia and exclude payments under the Denationalisation Act. Land transfers shall be carried out on the basis of images in order to provide a prerequisite for the transfer of the right of management to the immovable property required for construction. The changes to investors were also made under the Real Estate Act 2007 and the accompanying Regulation. This law introduced the transfer of the right of administration, with multilateral treaties concluded. The land management procedure for the Fund shall be extended. Other uncertainties have also arisen with regard to the replacement of the land of the injured. Due to the cadastral and land registers of unregulated preliminary conditions on other infrastructures, watercourses and the like owned by a country or municipality, as well as due to the non-preferential treatment of changes through the relevant GURS exposures, procedures relating to the dosage of buildings after construction are too long. Unanimous approaches by valuers and experts regarding the valuation of real estate are the following reasons. They cause enormous deviations in the amount of compensation, mainly in the valuation of buildings and buildings. Since the amount of the compensation is an essential reason for the leniency, it would be necessary to introduce a sub-legislative provision which would define all the uniform starting points which the appellant should take into account in the implementation of the valuation. Differences in valuations are also the reason why the procedures for determining compensation before the courts run for ten years or more. Under Article 181 of the Act on the regulation of premises in 2003, the implementation of the standards for the valuation of real estates was envisaged but not implemented. The area is completely left to the evaluation and evaluation professions and to the methods it has summarised. Then there are unsecured walled replacement locations for the relocation of demolitioners whose facilities [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u278	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u279	In view of the fact that the Minister has not completed it, however, I see that it has been colored that the answer was in the last letter I agree with what has been stated, there have been many such cases in this area, all of which have been resolved, except for this. [[...]] Here is a specific problem and two solutions I see in the congregation are two solutions: one solution is legal - eviction. Lawyers say that in practice this may take years and years if this beneficiary complains of any decision. The second solution is to comply with his request. Its claim is already stated to be 530 days old, and it is this to provide it with a building plot where it has a building to move there, build a home and temporarily move it into the building. Of course, this also depends on the congregation. We gave these two parcels to the UN with the decision of the municipal council, but at the Ministry of Environment and Space, at the Office of Space, they say it is not acceptable for now. My opinion is that if we were to apply ourselves to a national location plan that did not take into account this relocation, we could also argue this action in order to allow this location, even though it would be a dispersed settlement, to please it and thus to release this location in a short time. Lawyers say there are no other options. But I'm afraid that if a spatial act is either rejected or [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That this second option, which is the shortest, will also swim on the water. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Did you come up with a proposal for a complementary response? The minister will do his best without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u281	In fact, I understood that I had not been able to answer that exactly before, but I think that the debate has gone this way, that you are interested in a concrete case of how we are going to solve it. In principle, I am inclined to try to resolve this with an agreement. I am aware that the legal procedure could put the matter so far off in the future that all the deadlines, and not only the time limits at stake - so, as you correctly establish, the legal procedures available can make a considerable deal. This is how I'm going to commit myself to making an agreement if it's only reasonable.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will raise the question of a Member of Parliament to the absent Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I will set it up and, of course, expect an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. So, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already repeatedly pointed out the Government's attitude towards agriculture and society in this mandate. We note that there is also obvious discrimination in this area under various anti-crisis measures. Although the financial and economic crisis has also been very much affecting cooperatives and food companies, these have been unduly excluded from at least seven public tenders in recent months. I am talking about a public call to promote short-term employment, a public call for co-financing and training for greater employability, a call for direct incentives for joint development and investment projects and so on. The cooperatives which applied for these tenders were given the conclusion that their role was complete but did not fulfil the conditions for registration under the Company Act. In our opinion, the conditions of these calls are discriminatory to cooperatives and, consequently, to Slovenian agriculture. We also find the situation unacceptable because Article 56 of the Cooperatives Act makes it clear that the entry of cooperatives into the register makes sense to apply the law governing companies and that the cooperative can carry out all activities under the same conditions as an economic company. It was also due to different interpretations that a clear provision was adopted in the Cooperatives Act, which provides that cooperatives are entitled to state aid. Given that we are all aware of the crisis in other economic sectors, we expect the Ministry and the Government to finally start to realize that the crisis is also in agriculture and related sectors. If the government continues to eliminate agriculture and cooperatives, it will be a severe blow to our agriculture and rural areas. I therefore ask the Minister: How should the cooperative carry out activities under the same conditions as that of an economic company, but only because of its legal form or legal status can it not enforce State aid under the same conditions as those laid down for those forms of companies listed by the Company Act? I want to know: What will you do to ensure that cooperatives are no longer discriminated against in public calls and that the principle of undisturbed competition set out in the Treaty establishing the European Community is no longer violated? So, as I say, I expect an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Your question will be answered orally at the next meeting of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. As the last question, Dr. Luka Juri will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u285	Have a nice hello again. Good evening. Thank the Minister for attending this last and late parliamentary question. I consider his participation to be a sign of respect for the institution of the National Assembly. I would like to ask the Minister, in view of the initiative I have given to the general Slovenian information system with two other Members before the time of the gradual introduction of open-source solutions. From that time on, how did the ministry start to apply what was given in that reply? In particular, I refer to the implementation of open-source solutions: if possible solutions based also on Slovenian knowledge, which are not based on licensing restrictions, especially on licensing restrictions from abroad, based on the principle of open-source solutions. So at what level did these solutions begin to apply where possible. I am aware that the answer is: an open-source solution is a solution for all, a wrong answer. It should be applied according to sectors, depending on the individual needs of users and also on the individual knowledge of users. Open source solutions are not always the cheapest, but they can be a good alternative in many cases. From the point of view of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, there are opportunities to promote the use of such solutions at the level of universities, at the level of research institutions where the Ministry could promote not only financial but also knowledge measures through various measures. I'll stop here and ask the Minister to explain the subject professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Golobic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The interest in progress in the introduction of open-source organisational systems at the Ministry's level of policy is undoubtedly useful as it contributes to greater information on the subject of open-source issues in the general public, including in the public of all decision makers, and also encourages further reflection on effective ways of introducing open-source solutions. In response to your February question or group of Members, I stressed that the use of open code and open standards is at the level of the general strategic documents of this country in the field of information society, such as the February 2007 strategy for the development of the information society of the Republic of Slovenia or the eGovernment strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2006-2010, that the issue of this use is adequately addressed. Two departments are responsible for the implementation of these documents: the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology at the level of the Information Society and the Ministry of Public Administration at the level of the public administration institutions. At the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, we set up an Inter-Resort Working Group for Open Source in Public Administration, which met last April. The next meeting is expected this month. It includes representatives of ministries, courts, municipal administrations and the general public. He works closely with the Centre for the Open Source of Slovenia, which is also funded by the Ministry. And this centre with an open-source solution base is an example of good practice that has not been lost, and it also detects at EU level. In 2009, the Centre for the Open Source of Slovenia and its partners developed applications for telediagnostics and online shopping for disabled people. In cooperation with the Association of Retired Associations of Slovenia, he prepared a special distribution CD with the operating system "Limux", the office collection "Open office" and "Mozilla" browsers. During this time, there are also two calls for e-consumers and e-services at the Ministry just before publication in 2009 and in 2010 and in this call for applicants have the opportunity to report open-source solutions, which is a new incentive in this direction. We estimate that the consolidation of harmonised information society policies itself, and in particular the eGovernment strategy in the government process, will help to ensure that, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, it is possible to prepare an accurate overview of the situation as soon as possible and also an appropriate "Roas Map" of the use of programming solutions in the state administration. In doing so, and this is crucial before we take decisive steps, the question still needs to be answered as to what this transition means from the point of view of the whole, including some, of the seemingly invisible costs associated with both teaching, partial compatibility, reliability of operation, consistency with existing solutions and interoperability itself. This is what we still have to get as an answer, and in this context it will also be easier and more direct to encourage both universities and institutes, which are themselves, because of the tightness or the distress they have been alerting them to for years when it comes to passive financing, to finance their drive, including information support, in individual cases, and to apply these solutions in specific areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u289	Thank you very much for your answer. In it you also mentioned the Centre for the Open Source of Slovenia, which has played an important role so far, but according to my assessment it is marginal, especially if we compare it with the knowledge of the very existence of this centre by the general public of users. In view of what you have said: Do you think that the Centre of the Open Code of Slovenia in the coming years could become some kind of focus point and coordinator of the promotion and knowledge of open source solutions as free, yet established alternatives also for the general public? This is the one that, at the moment, both the Centre of Open Source Slovenia and open source solutions are unknown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u291	It is my opinion that the Centre for Open Codes, Slovenia already has a role of a national entity in this area and this role is worth strengthening. Since we are currently covering the field of information society in the broadest sense, of course, cooperation with such an organisation, which we are also co-financed with this very purpose to a lesser extent, in the case of cooperation with the non-governmental sector, we expect that, after the country through the strategy I mentioned earlier, more precise guidance in this area, including with the involvement of this area or the non-governmental sector, there could be stronger breakthroughs. Thus, in this sense, this initiative is that the Centre for the Open Code of Slovenia can take on this more important role and will also have our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Golobic for his answer to the last question. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Ministers for the answers given. We have thus concluded this agenda item and today's session. We'll resume tomorrow at ten o'clock. Thank you very much.
