ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u1	Fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, Jakob Presečnik and Mirko Brulc. I welcome everyone here. Your Honor! Allow me to speak a few words on today's Holocaust Day. Dear Members and Members! Respected Ombudsman Zdenka Chebašek Travnik with colleagues! Honorable representatives of the government! Today, the world marks the day of memory of the victims of one of the greatest crimes against humanity in human history. On 1 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution declaring it a day of memory of the Holocaust on 27 January. The United Nations, in its resolution on the establishment of the World Holocaust Day, one of the darkest chapters of human history, strongly condemned any relativisation and denial of Nazi crimes. They condemned any form of religious intolerance and discrimination, and called on Member States to present with a memorial day and educational programmes the current and future generations of the horrors of the genocide and racist holocaust carried out by the Nazis in World War II. In this spirit, the day of memory of the Holocaust in Slovenia is also the day of the Holocaust of the Jews, both in Slovenia and elsewhere, along with persecuted Roma, mentally and physically affected and members of various religious divisions and political prisoners. And, of course, it is a day of remembrance for all Slovenes and Slovenians who were interned in Nazi concentration camps. In concentration camps, the horrendous symbols of the Nazi policy of the final solution to the Jewish issue in Europe, millions of people were killed in gas cells and attempts by Nazi scientists. The victims were mostly Jews, members of a nation that had contributed greatly to Europe’s cultural and intellectual wealth, as well as other nations and ethnic groups that the Nazis wanted to exterminate. When the end of the war revealed itself to the eyes of the pervasive allies of the horror of the Holocaust, only a handful of the Jewish population in Europe lived. The Holocaust was impressed not only by its unimaginable dimension but also by the incomprehensible ideological, deadly hatred of Jews, Roma, and Slavs, which was based solely on their racial and religious affiliation. The 20th century was undoubtedly one of the most bloody and destructive. A century of brutal killing, extermination, unprecedented warfare, a century of unprecedented war barbarism. It was marked by the immeasurable suffering caused mainly by World War II by systematic extermination and killing of civilians. Nazi-fascist violence, based on national prejudices, was also part of the Slovenian nation during World War II. German Nazis and Italian and Hungarian fascists also planned and carried out the physical destruction of the Slovenians. The first mass victims of war violence were crippled and mentally affected by the lower Styrias, which were euthanized in the summer of 1941. The shooting of hostages, the deportation of civilians to concentration camps and children in Nazi production of the facility, mass displacement, arson and devastation were an integral part of this violence. The invaders took thousands of Slovenians from Slovenian territory to concentration camps and prisons, killing some 10,000 in German camps, in Italians more than 2000. Only a strong anti-fascist resistance movement of the national-liberal struggle stopped the genocide over the Slovenians and the Slovenian people connected to the victorious coalition of democratic allies, with which we celebrated the victory over Nazism in May 1945. Therefore, today, honourable Members and Members, is not only an opportunity to remember and condemn the great horror and tragedy of the Holocaust, but also an opportunity to resist and condemn the increasing negative treatment of an individual on the basis of race, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, social position or political belief. All of this often leads to crimes against human rights, to the beating of fundamental freedoms. It is also appropriate today to condemn the senseless suffering of civilians, often caused by armed conflicts in various parts of the world, unfortunately also recently in Gaza. The conduct of conflicting parties, which prevent or even prevent the provision of wounded and access to humanitarian aid to the civilian population, is both valid and morally unacceptable. The senseless sea must be stopped immediately and in a peaceful manner sought to resolve and resolve conflicts based on the values of tolerance, non-exclusion of dialogue, mutual respect and recognition of ethical, religious and cultural differences. The Holocaust, which has caused the death of 6 million Jews and many millions of members of various minorities, nationalities, and nations, must remain a warning forever against the danger of contempt, hatred, anti - Semitism, racism, prejudice, fanaticism. The concentration and destruction camps, which are among the most shameful and painful things in the history of the European continent and the world, must never be forgotten. Despite the terrible experiences of the past, Europe is also facing new waves of anti-Semitism and xenophobia. Unfortunately, signs of anti-Semitism are also observed in us. The inscriptions such as "Juden Raus", which recently appeared at the Maribor synagogue, must not be abolished with a naked explanation of the indignation of the intervention of the State of Israel in Gaza. It's a real and genuine expression of anti-Semitism. That is why I strongly condemn such conduct. The solution is in the patient conduct of all individuals and in the realization of the commitments that the founders of the United Nations have written in the preamble of the Charter over 60 years ago. We must show determination to protect future generations from the horrors of war, which seek untold suffering for mankind. Every day we must reaffirm our faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and value of the human personality, in the equality of nations, great and small. We must create conditions in which justice and respect for obligations arising from international law can be imposed. We must help to improve living conditions and greater freedom, to be patient and to live in peace with one another and to join forces to help international peace and security. Above all, we must all work together to become intolerance, discrimination and racism of the past, and that such evil will never happen again and again. Your Honor! In memory and honor to all victims of Nazism and fascism, in memory and honour to all victims of the Holocaust, I ask the Members and Members for a minute of silence. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence of the 2007 Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia The annual report was submitted by the Ombudsman for consideration. I give my word to the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, for further explanation of the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u2	Your Honor! Mr. President of the National Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister and other representatives of the Government! Today is a big day for the Ombudsman's institution, a day when we can present our work in this way, that is less important than what the actual human rights situation in Slovenia is. This is also an important part of this report as well as an update. I would like to say that this meeting, now with many Members of Parliament for the first time, is in fact the only opportunity for the Ombudsman to speak directly to Members of the National Assembly. However, this is not our only meeting, because we are meeting on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Here I would like to say that cooperation with this committee during my term of office was correct and I would like to thank the previous President, Mag. Expenditure, as current presidents, Mrs Irgle, on extremely good cooperation in the preparation of the report, as well as on other topics. We also work with Members on committees and commissions when we are invited as debaters or rapporteurs. In the past period, I have also had some personal meetings with individual Members, and in the future it is true that all Members and Members who would like to obtain from me personally or from my fellow Members any information on the protection of human rights, that you are always welcome, so it should be said that our doors, the door of the Ombudsman, are always open to you. When we come to the National Assembly and listen to our work, there are, of course, dilemmas, questions, or to raise one subject, because time is limited, or to review the action to get a sense of what human rights violations we face. The next dilemma is whether to report on positive changes, for these are undoubtedly happening, or to point out unresolved issues that have been repeated for years in a row. The next dilemma, which is also quite perplexing, is whether to take advantage of this opportunity to give a speech, a presentation on current topics, or to stick to the reports. And of course, this subject is related to a problem that we will face today. The report is always made with a delay, and the current themes sometimes require a different view. The submission of the annual report lays down by law the obligation of the Ombudsman. This time I am presenting the 13th annual report, in which I personally participated as the guardian, my three deputies, Mr Tone Dolčič, mag. Cornelius Marzelj, Mr Jernej Rovšek, who is absent for health reasons today. They also participated: Secretary-General Bojana Kvas and other members of my junior college: Mag. Bojana Chkate, Ivan Shelih, while preparing the report, other professional colleagues and other colleagues, are said to be employed by the Ombudsman. First of all, I'd like to introduce you to the use of terms so that it's a little easier to communicate. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is an institution, a constitutional category. In my case, however, the Ombudsman is a beloved function, which requires two-thirds of the votes of all Members, the maximum required quota for a term of six years. There are just under two years behind me, and we will remain co-workers during your term of office. In speaking, I would like to remind you of the wrong use of "the guardian's office" or even worse "the guardian's office". The office was sometimes called an organisational form. It's actually an independent institution, which we don't name or name as an office, and, of course, it's not my office, but I'm the guardian. The Ombudsman's powers are laid down by the Law on the Ombudsman. This law was 15 years old in December. And the powers are laid down in Articles 23, 24 and 25, and we may be referring to this today. Perhaps you would like to know how the annual report comes about. This happens by taking initiatives throughout the year, in this case through 2007, we take initiatives. These are, according to the local authorities, complaints from individuals or groups. Then we process these initiatives and the most interesting ones, or the ones that most illustrate human rights violations, then we turn them into cases. Examples are anonymous initiatives, but they do prove a mistake. On the basis of these cases, the Ombudsman's College will then determine the emphasis and the members of my junior college will also write a text paper, and I will of course study everything thoroughly, write an introduction and an assessment of the situation. As long as this document is produced, editorial work is involved and then design. As I mentioned earlier, the problem is that the report, even by law, comes with a delay. We are obliged to hand it over to the President of the National Assembly by September of a year ago. And so we did with the 2007 annual report. The Ombudsman’s opening thoughts are briefly presented; of course, you can read them in the introduction. But I'd like to stop at three points. The first is respect for human values. I warn you about these values many times. Maybe some people think of it as some kind of moralization. However, I am convinced that maintaining human dignity, mutual respect, trust, honesty, non-violence, willingness to help the weaker and to cooperate in ensuring better conditions, better quality of life, that these are the values upon which every guardian's work must be based. The second point from my introductory thoughts is to effectively protect human rights. I mean two things: that those of us who have asked for information are said to be addressed to inquiries to answer that it is not necessary to seek the help of the higher courts, and of course that those who violate human rights, even respond to our opinions, are said to have also those opinions that the Ombudsman has already formulated. And the third thing that I point out in my introduction is a dialogue with decision makers. I am thinking mainly of different people, as well as the bodies that people think they've been violated human rights. And, of course, this dialogue should be aimed at just eliminating these identified violations. However, a different type of dialogue with decision makers is intended to cooperate in the preparation or correction of legislation related to the exercise of human rights. In the next presentation I will go quickly through all the chapters you also have in the annual report, so those who want to follow this have also written the chapter number in our report above. That's how we start with constitutional rights. With regard to constitutional rights, I would like to point out three points. The first is - and I hope that this will also be the subject of our debate - the participation of the professional and other interested public in the adoption of the rules. We have written more about this and the Government has also given some response, but the consideration of when and how this public should be included is worth discussing and, of course, some changes. Another important thing is according to our assessment of the ethics of public words. Every day, but every day, we are faced with the fact that this ethics of the public word is broken, which means that we are faced with expressions, as Mr President of the National Assembly has said before. In an improper way or an ethically controversial way, very well-known people are also expressed, and on the Internet we see a flood of ethically controversial messages. We also need effective mechanisms in the field of journalistic work in order to do something about it. The third issue in constitutional rights is the protection of children in the media. I think there's going to be something else to say about that. That I won't be too long or that I'll have time for all the different areas, I'd like to go a little faster through. The next item is discrimination. Although our country seems to be exemplary in caring for this area, we find that the effectiveness of this concern is poor and that legal protection against discrimination is only apparent. This discrimination is still felt by people with disabilities. We point to the inadequate functioning of the advocate for equal opportunities, in particular it seems disputed that this body is not independent of the Government, and thus its functioning is quite distorted. I think they're already studying this matter intensively at the Equal Opportunities Office. The Ombudsman also finds it unsustainable to systematically avoid definitions up to the requirements for the recognition of status to other minorities. We do not claim to recognise them, but we need to respond to their initiatives. We also still note that the situation of the Roma community is not adequately resolved. The special area of my concern as a guardian and, of course, the special concern of the institution is for persons with limited personal freedom. According to the local authorities, these are persons who are on prison leave. The point is that for years the Ombudsman has been pointing out the overcrowding of prisons and the extremely poor housing situation. I must say that most of the Slovenian prisons in this mandate have already been visited personally, have looked at the actual situation and, of course, have been convinced of it and have also reported publicly. By the way, optional protocol reports can also be read on our websites. However, in prisons, it is not only those who suffer punishment but also those who are employed. Even though the ministry has been alerting us all the time that something needs to be done in this area, we can see that no positive changes have taken place in 2007 in relation to this report. I have to say the same thing about forensic psychiatry and also a rather disorderly healthcare system. I would like to point out that some things are changing, but I still have to point out the unsustainable situation in prisons. The next item concerns justice. In the case of justice, the Ombudsman’s position is that the proportion of initiatives is said to be the largest in this area, but this number of initiatives is quite constant. It's not about growing up, but unfortunately it's not about any significant decline. I would like to say that, in addition to the longevity of the proceedings and the resulting consequences, the new category of complaints is linked to dissatisfaction with the work of the judicial experts. We further note that in 2007 the possibilities for alternative dispute resolution were under-exploited. It was already a very direct link between executions and poverty in 2007. We have also had a number of smaller cases, of which I would like to mention a prison of denial, where information or awareness of those who come to a prison is quite inappropriate in the front of the agenda, with the possibility of a work of general benefit. Infringers do not understand the concept of work of general benefit and do not decide for themselves. Some improvements have already been made here, but this was not the case in 2007. As I mentioned earlier, the work of judicial experts, but there are also numerous complaints about the work of lawyers. Lawyers are not directly within the custody of the Ombudsman, so we are primarily communicating with the Bar Association and reminding her of these problems. Police procedures are a very interesting chapter in the protection of human rights. There are about a hundred initiatives here every year. It is interesting that around these initiatives we always discover something that can be corrected that can be improved. I must say that at least so far the police have always reacted properly to these initiatives and have responded to them as far as possible. However, we are not running out of proposals to improve our work. In particular, we want these complaints against the work of police officers to be as transparent as possible, not only because of the complainants, but also because of the police themselves. It is fair to say that police officers are doing a very important and responsible job and that they too may be wronged by being reported for a thing they have done perfectly correctly. The Ombudsman also participates in the training of police officers by informing them of the violations. Administrative matters. I'll go through faster. This is a question of citizenship, where many people expect the Ombudsman to help them acquire citizenship, even though they do not meet the legal requirements. In individual cases, we also found that the cost-effectiveness of the procedure was quite neglected, that people were sent for different forms and it took so long that that the first form had already expired. With regard to foreigners, we have pointed out that the so-called alignment with European Union law has led to a deterioration of the situation for foreigners, and we continue to argue and expect it to change. Of course, in our report again, I hope that this time before last, because for 2008 we will write about this, there are also "deleted". The next thing you have to say about administrative matters is denationalisation. Although the number of cases resolved is very high, it is already up to 100%, in practice it still means about 1,300 pending cases, 18 years after the adoption of the law. Next thing you know, taxes and customs. Here stories are related to not sufficiently clear alignments, especially when it comes to disabled people. Another point we have been alerting is the hard-to-understand text that appears in the decisions of the tax authorities and where there are small letters. That's what I've been trying to illustrate in this presentation. If you read your own tax decisions, you'll see what I'm talking about. It's about education. The last thing I'm going to mention in administrative matters is here I'd like to highlight the problem of violence in particular. In the face of violence at all levels, all kinds are underexposed. I am pleased that in 2008, the Ministry of Education and I have found an opportunity to explore the problem of violence and hope that the project will be completed this year. The following is the environment and the area where we record an increase in the number of initiatives each year. As you know, we have also prepared a special consultation on this subject in cooperation with the Council of State. I would like to say that Slovenia is not exactly exemplary in the field of environmental protection and that much will have to be done in this area. But it is also about how individual parties, who will give them this right or not, should enter the decision-making process. It is interesting, however, that the Ministry of Environment and Space has told us many times that it does not agree with our comments. In the environment, I would also say that Arso and the inspection services don't follow all the demands well. In particular, the lack of inspectors is a problem in the inspection services. Many inspection decisions remain pending, but Ars estimates that one of the main problems is that institutions that should measure missions do not have accreditation. And there is no institution in Slovenia to carry out these accreditations. You could say that the measurements are carried out fairly domestically. In the field of economic public services, I would mention communication. I now mention communications at this point mainly in view of poor communication with the Ombudsman. It happened that, in response from the Ministry of Culture, we had to engage the whole government. I hope this doesn't happen again. Then, in economic services, something that may not seem important to you right now, but inadequate legislation in the field of funeral and funeral activities, which often causes strange complications for people who have lost their loved ones. When we first pointed out this to the Ministry of Environment and Space, these informed us that the Ministry of Economy had taken over the matter. And that didn't give us an answer to our demand. As with the initiatives relating to burial and funeral activities, we also face initiatives and problems with comments at the expense of chimneys. Today one more comment was at the expense of the chimney work. I must also say that despite many sources of drinking water, Slovenia still does not provide all its inhabitants with access to such water. And it's also a violation of human rights. In residential matters, stories are very long, and they are often associated with social issues. But I would only warn you of two things. First, the state has left the housing issue to market legality. The municipalities refer to the lack of resources and to the inadequacy of legislation. This is certainly true, especially when we remind them that they should make calls for non-profit housing and provide housing units. Of course, they are not forced to do so by any law, and they are evading some of these duties. The next thing in the apartment is denationalized apartments. This is also a story that the Ombudsman has been repeating for many years and it is an unresolved relationship between owners, says beneficiaries, and former tenants. Although housing is a small problem by number, it is still up to date. Then we go to work relationships. There are many initiatives here, more and more. There are more and more anonymous ones, since the applicants are afraid to release their information because they understand that this will only make their situation worse. In many cases, we have found this to be true. Even if an inspection service then reviewed the situation and generally did not detect an irregularity, the work or life in this collective has been made difficult for the applicant. What I am particularly concerned about is the data for 2007 is that almost 60% of the increase in initiatives is from government employees. Of course, we are promising a lot from the legal ban on bullying in the workplace, but there is still a lack of judicial practice in this area and we still do not know how the bully will prove how the employer has bullied him. In doing so, it must be said that the Ombudsman does not have jurisdiction over private companies, and we are travelling from there to the inspectorate. And there's that story I told you about. In the case of pension and disability insurance, non-compliance with the terms of the administrative decision and the fact that the decisions are not sufficiently substantiated are still at the forefront of the infringement. It is encouraging, however, that the PSC responds well to our comments and also to the action when it finds that the Ombudsman’s comments are justified. There are many human rights violations in health care and health insurance. Of course, we can read about this at present almost every day or listen to it in the media, but it must be said that progress has been made in this direction in 2008 with the adoption of two laws. However, this does not mean that these two laws will actually contribute to better protection of human rights, as this situation is not yet very optimistic. Of course, the Ombudsman cannot replace the regular complaint trails, but can only monitor their implementation. Social protection is one of those areas of the Ombudsman's work that is the most widespread, which means that severe material distress and the fear of survival are the contents of many new initiatives. Now, to represent individual points within social protection, we have too little time. The problem is that for the affected population, not only are they too low in social assistance, but many times the people who decide to do so are extremely unfriendly, bureaucratic, harsh, so that this humiliation, the loss of human dignity in these people, is still mounting. A few words about institutional protection. We also know enough about this in public, but we expect the country to intervene more decisively in the organisation and offer of this form of protection, because we see a great imbalance. We also find that there is a severe shortage of care units in hospitals, and it is difficult to expect the adoption of a law on long-term care and insurance. The last area I will touch today is the protection of children's rights. This is a special priority of my work, where I would like to draw attention to the fact that legislation is still very bad in the back and that we still do not have a law prohibiting corporal punishment for children, that despite many promises the family code remains in the drawer, and thus better opportunities for dealing with children in various procedures. Again, I would like to point out that reporting to the media on minors for the unauthorized publication of children's personal data is still a constant. While we have some amended legislation in this area, but no jurisprudence yet, I also call on Members to actively participate in the reporting of offenders primarily with a view to protecting children, and the intention is to create a case-law. In 2007, the Ombudsman was working on preparations for the "Procurator, voice of the child" project. Next thing. During my term of office, the number of initiatives increased by almost 20%. And now we must ask ourselves what else the Ombudsman can do in the field of human rights. In order to answer that question, we would need analysis. And if we want to do the analysis [[End warning sign]] , we need more staff and more space and, of course, all that will be at the end of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u3	Madam Guardian, you have ten seconds left, and I ask you to finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you. I look forward to a good debate in the interest of protecting human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and human rights and the same opportunities as the parent labour force and prepared a draft report to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative, Mrs Eva Irgle, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. At its 2nd meeting, on 15 January 2009, the Commission addressed the Ombudsman's Annual Report 2007 for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The Ombudsman, a representative of the Council of State, representatives of the Government, the Supreme Court, the representative of the Supreme State Prosecutor and representatives of NGOs participated in the consideration of the report. The Ombudsman first pointed out the distinction between the notions of the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman and the Office of the Ombudsman. It then briefed the members and members on the creation of the report, with particular reference to the 2007 report. The work of the Ombudsman in all areas is based on respect for human values, effective protection of human rights and in cooperation with the competent authorities. The Ombudsman presented the report per chapter and drew attention to the findings which are particularly important and which the Ombudsman specifically draws attention to. Many of these have been in the reports for years. At the end of the opening presentation, the Ombudsman said that the number of applications was increasing. However, so far no analysis or research has been carried out on whether or not the number of infringements is increasing. They will continue to strive for project work, but they will urgently need additional co-workers and additional facilities, which will only be possible if they also receive additional resources. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion adopted by the Council of State on the report. This has identified improvements in the situation in a number of areas [[patients' rights, workplace harassment, mental health law]] . In any event, some of the Ombudsman's warnings remain ignored, such as judicial backlogs, then the correction of injustices, the issue of deleted and, in particular, the failure to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. He also drew attention to the violation of the rights of employees, particularly the unacceptable fact that this is also taking place in the public authorities and the integration of affected and disabled children into the educational system. Representatives of NGOs highlighted the importance of the Ombudsman's institution and its annual reports. In particular, they touched on the still unresolved situation of deleted children, the access of Roma children to education and the importance of free legal advice, the first legal advice. They also pointed out, in their view, the incorrect interpretation of the provisions of the Asylum Act, which sets the time within which the competent authority is obliged to issue a decision. All members of the Commission and some representatives of ministries participated in the debate on the report. The discussion also highlighted the importance of the report to identify and monitor the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with the Government's annual response report being a valuable tool. The debate specifically touched on the position of the advocate of the principle of equal treatment, the prohibition of corporal punishment of children, the participation of civil society in the drafting of regulations, access to drinking water on the same terms and conditions, the sensational reporting of hate speech, the mobbing of deleted persons, cooperation between administrative authorities and the ethics of the public word and the measures taken by the previous Government and which have significantly improved the situation of human rights. In the discussion on the draft recommendations, the members of the Commission made their proposals to supplement or amend the proposed draft recommendation. By a majority of votes, the Commission has drawn up and voted on a proposal for a recommendation, which is an integral part of this report as an annex. Finally, the Commission adopted the following conclusion: the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to review the Ombudsman's 2007 annual report and adopt the Commission's recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration for the presentation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, distinguished public! I stand before you as a representative two months ago of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which reports and submits an opinion on the report and information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Ombudsman's report in 2006 and sends information on what the Government, which was our predecessor, has done in response to the Ombudsman's report in 2006. Of course, the government was aware of the problems that were evident from the report and I would like to inform you, on behalf of the previous government, that it has taken the following measures in response to the shortcomings highlighted by the report. In 2007, in order to protect workers and job seekers from discrimination, it adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. In the area of remedying judicial backlogs, the Lukenda project sought to ensure a greater abolition of delays and, without undue delay, the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement, of course, to ensure the right of trial within a reasonable period of time. Furthermore, the Government has set a plan to protect minors in a way that allows them to adopt a Regulation on the establishment of a visual acoustic warning for software content that is not suitable for children and minors. It further ensured that, as a special official, she is an employed advocate or the principle of equality within the Office for Equal Opportunities. The Ministry of Public Administration has endeavoured to ensure the participation of the professional public in the adoption of regulations. It notes that this task has not been implemented as the Ministry has intended, and agrees with the Ombudsman that in this area it is necessary to provide some appropriate institutional frameworks to ensure the participation of these public in the drafting of the rules in the work of the Government. In the area of denationalisation, the Ministry of Public Administration, in order to respond to the desire for completed denationalisation procedures in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice for the elimination of local jurisdiction, has sought to assist those administrative units that have already completed these procedures themselves. Here was the success seen. The former government wanted to influence the field of human rights by adopting the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence and the Law on Mental Health. It therefore considered that measures had been adopted and launched in many areas in 2007 that had contributed to a more efficient and faster solution to the problems. Today we are representatives and representatives of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As has been seen from the Ombudsman's presentation, we have a lot of work to do in this area. Today we will closely follow the debate of Members and Members, of course we will closely follow your recommendations and guidance for the work of the Government below. We guarantee and promise that we will record the best we can, and we will also try to answer you further in the debate on how we see and how we want to approach these issues. After this debate, we will also present to you our conclusions on the work in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear government officials, respectable guardian of human rights! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The moment of adoption of the Annual Report on the State of Human Rights in our country is a glorious moment. It points to the state of the spirit, to some level of civilization at which our country is. The joy of the report of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman’s Institute of Human Rights is, in contrast to the reports of some other State authorities in reverse proportions. The fact that the number of cases dealt with per year does not necessarily mean that there is more human rights violations in our country, but it shows that citizens and citizens are recognized by the Ombudsman's Institute as one respected, respected institution and also ultimately effective. Her warnings take seriously all three branches of authority, which of course is right. The Ombudsman's Institute is a constitutional category. Human rights are also enshrined in the preamble to the basic constitutional charter and our constitution. In short, they're kind of preceding everything else, all the daily politics we're dealing with. Therefore, as liberals and liberals in the Group of Members, we certainly believe that this foundation of our statehood, fundamental human rights is inseparable, individual, that it cannot be the subject of majority decision-making. Their respect, as I said before, precedes our statehood and gives us legitimacy. Otherwise, general human rights may enjoy a higher level of protection than any other social and other, which our citizens face also because of some bureaucratic obstacles that have not been removed, and unfortunately also because of some mistakes in our legislation that we are most responsible for here. In the Parliamentary Group, we really welcome the Ombudsman's decision to give special emphasis to children's rights. We thank her for this report, including the Government for the measures taken in this area. We commit ourselves to helping, as far as we can, legal changes that will prevent or prevent systemic violations of human rights. We also support most of the proposed guidelines proposed by the Commission for petitions, human rights and freedoms. However, some of the amendments adopted by this Commission by voting in the reduced composition have been prepared together with the SD, DeSUS and the LDS Parliamentary Club, which, in our opinion, offer better solutions to some of the problems mentioned by the Ombudsman's report and are in accordance with the applicable legislation and judicial decisions. I hope that we will reach agreement on this. And once again, we are happy to await the next reports of the guardian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u12	Dear Mr. President! Dear Lady Guardian! Dear Ministers and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the 2007 Annual Report of the Ombudsman and the opportunity for the public, including the authorities, to be familiar with the work of an institution representing an independent supervisor who has the power to act, alert and intervene in the event of a violation of the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, this is an opportunity to revise the work of the authorities and to adopt recommendations for improvement in areas where shortcomings are identified, irregularities that constitute violations of human rights and freedoms. In the DeSUS Group, this report is reviewed in detail each year and examined in particular from the point of view of the implementation of our client's basic programme. That is why we have spent more time than usual on chapters dealing with older populations, housing issues, health issues, social protection and the protection of children's rights. This does not mean, of course, that the remaining areas on our part have been overlooked. Absolutely not. Also, areas such as judicial backlogs, clientism and the like are not insignificant and human rights violations occur here, and not only rarely. Nevertheless, it is our duty to pay more attention to weaker categories of people, such as elderly people, who are socially at risk, children, the poorer, that is to say deprived groups. As far as housing is concerned, we agree with the guardian that the situation has not improved and remains unchanged. The housing problem stems mainly from the fact that the State has almost completely abandoned the market and the functioning of its legality. Thus, young families and vulnerable groups have very poor opportunities to resolve the housing issue. However, the Ombudsman’s most public warnings relate to the inadequacy of housing law, since the obligations of the essential actors of the State, the municipalities, are not precisely regulated to avoid the obligations of the latter. Housing systems have undergone major transformations in almost all European countries in various ways over the past decades. The policies of the state of prosperity in the residential area barely exist. The traditional understanding of the concept of social housing as an apartment subsidised by the taxpayer and granted by the company to tenants by market rent has changed. The role of local authorities responsible for housing services has also changed, in line with more difficult access to housing, the decline in the construction of non-profit apartments and the expensive and small market rent sectors has increased housing vulnerability and the number of homeless people. The expectations of housing reform have also proved to be overly optimistic, as the housing supply structure has mainly turned out to be a reform path. It is therefore essential to approach the adoption and implementation of measures that will allow access to housing, in terms of providing temporary accommodation such as shelters, accommodation units, permanent accommodation in the form of non-profit dwellings and financial instruments such as housing subsidies and housing loans. The construction of supplied apartments has become a real investment success in the last year or two, so that we can expect thousands of new protected apartments on the market. The interest in purchasing or profitable rent is growing, but it will only be difficult to follow the offer because pensioners who have their own properties find it difficult to decide to move. However, those who do not have them are usually poorly situated and cannot afford protected homes, nor can they afford them with the help of relatives. The inefficient housing supply, which is also reflected in the chronic lack of non-profit rentals, is due to errors in the country's previous housing policy, unimaginable solutions or poor regulatory implementation. Nor can we define the country's attitude towards local communities as a partnership, as the conditions for co-financing of housing offers are completely non-lifelike. Housing policy must be redirected by allowing ownership to increase the supply of non-profit rent. Therefore, the stagnation in the real estate market and the financial crisis require a shift to a new housing policy in Slovenia. The extremely difficult material situation of many families and individuals leads [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and from year to year this percentage is increasing. Given the current economic and financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia, however, we can expect a drastic increase in the number of the weakest, which is likely to be read in the Ombudsman's annual report for 2008. In particular and again, our warning concerns the area of social protection. The Ombudsman draws attention to the distribution of a society in which a small part of the population is rapidly rich, and a growing proportion of the population is falling into poverty. Despite the so-called state prosperity, there are increasing initiatives that bring about hardship, poverty, disease, infirmity, disappointment and despair. People lose hope and trust and virtually see no way out. Therefore, the DeSUS Members believe that it is necessary to take a more constructive and more serious approach to solving this problem, to re-examine the poverty threshold, because today, with €226, the amount of social assistance, or €221, the minimum wage, there is no way to survive, let alone live a decent life. Even before the increase in the number of elderly people and their needs, we cannot keep our eyes closed, since each one of us approaches this category of people who depend on institutions and individuals and who are often suppressed by social events. We ourselves are convinced that age is not a circumstance that could lead us to conclude that these people are useless, unproductive, unprofitable. On the contrary. The rich experience of the elderly is often needed in shaping social reality, so the country is obliged to listen. Not only is it our duty to enable us to actively integrate and take into account our arguments and solutions in areas that still touch us, but it should be rights from a working relationship or rights from pension and disability insurance or protection at home or institutional protection of the elderly. Let's face it, we are also an older and retired part of Slovenian society, which we want to help and actively participate in creating a better future. Also, the State, the Republic of Slovenia, which declares itself to be social, has withdrawn from investment in pension homes and is offering a so-called public-private partnership, which practically means opening the door to social profit creation. These homes are much more expensive, and we can ask ourselves who they are intended for. Even now, only about 30% of caregivers can pay for the whole supply. This area has also remained virtually ignored. Members of the DeSUS also miss the arrangements for the palliative care of the incurably ill and elderly in Slovenia. Our attitude toward sickness, old age, and death is clearly evasive and will also need to be addressed in this area. It is also important to note the rise in physical and psychological violence in our society, not only against the elderly, but also among the young. Disturbingly inadequate or even inappropriate action by the authorities is becoming part of our daily life, so it is essential that abuse, neglect, suffering, and similar phenomena not only be recognized but also resisted and, in other words, suppressed. That is why we agree with the Ombudsman on zero tolerance, which must not only represent an unattainable ideal but a goal that can be achieved in reality. Members of the DeSUS believe that they have warned the Ombudsman on the spot and that they are realistically expressing their findings on the violation of human rights and freedoms, which is why we will be supporting the recommendations made by the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, and the additions to which we have signed. We expect and hope that the relevant warnings of this kind will be taken seriously and taken into account, as it will only avoid a number of initiatives addressed to the Ombudsman's Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Urh. Mr Majhenič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, following a thorough review of the comprehensive report, which we do not support, we have the following comments and warnings. The report makes it clear that the work of the Ombudsman is not effective enough. Cooperation with the guardian is unsuccessful or not at all, as many organizations point out. The Ombudsman should also cooperate with Members and parliamentary groups, societies, non-governmental organisations, numerous initiatives, student organisations and their weighty warnings also respond effectively. Finally, this is their role, as defined in Article 159 of the Constitution, as the highest legal act in the country, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to state authorities, local self-government bodies and holders of public powers. We would expect the guardian to be more active in finding problems and solving them. The report shows that the Ombudsman is actively involved only in the problem of Roma who have been deleted, where the Ombudsman even asks for clarifications, for example, how they have a regulated Roma problem in a particular municipality, while in other cases, including public opinion, citizens have to turn to the Ombudsman for assistance. However, discrimination is not only between citizens and non-citizens, but it is particularly problematic within individual groups. Special attention should be given to cases where children are victims. They should urgently be given greater custody of the Ombudsman for their rights, children, persons with disabilities, the elderly and socially disadvantaged. Especially now will this be necessary when mass forgiveness is foretold. We are missing concrete proposals for an integrated solution to the problems. More preventive projects should be introduced to raise public awareness of human rights. The report shows a large number of open cases. Most of them are in the field of judicial and police proceedings, followed by social security procedures. More emphasis should be placed on these in the future. It is unacceptable that, under current issues, the annual report by the Ombudsman states that during the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union did not have room to meet ombudsmen from the European Union countries in order for the Ombudsman to need additional staff and resources. It is unusual for the Ombudsman to take advantage of his report to highlight the issue of reducing the payment classes of the Ombudsman’s officials and to express concern about how he will obtain qualified lawyers and other experts in such wage relations. Only then will it turn to the issue of universal human values, such as dignity, mutual respect, trust, honesty, non-violence, willingness to help the weak and to cooperate in enabling better quality of life for all. I think that it is the guardian who faces people's hardships daily that should not allow himself to use the annual report in this way to expose his or her interests in view of the type of serious problems that citizens face. The conclusions of the Commission's proposal for a recommendation on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities will not receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Now, Mr Bogovic will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u16	Nice greetings, respectable vice president, respectable guardian, distinguished minister, minister, distinguished colleague, colleague! Human rights are a fundamental principle of democracy and therefore the role and importance of the Ombudsman's institution and its annual reports, which make us aware of the human rights situation in Slovenia, are very important. We would like to commend the carefully and precisely prepared report. Each time the guardian's report has somehow mirrored the functioning of our country's organ system. The 2007 report of the Ombudsman shows two main features, namely that improvements have been made in some areas and that some of the problems are drawn from year to year and from one to the other. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that problems in our society would be dealt with much faster and more effectively if there was a more coherent and coherent operation in our country between individual ministries and in this part we would like to stress the importance of inspection services that operate only within ministries and are not horizontally linked. In the SLS Group, we would like to highlight, in our opinion, the most pressing problems that are repeated in the report. Above all, we must pay particular attention and act quickly when it comes to the weakest members of our society when it comes to children's rights and protection. With the adoption of new legislation, at least some areas are partially regulated and eliminate repeated complaints by citizens, the adoption of the Patient Rights Act, which is implemented too slowly, complemented by provisions on the functioning of legislation allowing the punishment of discrimination, violence and mobileity; and improvements in the protection of personal data. It is worrying, however, that many affected workers and especially workers do not hope to talk about discrimination and mobile phones in the workplace, and therefore procedures cannot be completed. It is also worrying in our society that there is too much tolerance for the violence of various forms, in particular the lack of respect for labour legislation, which is mainly reflected in the conclusion of civil contracts instead of contracts of work, the failure to pay the work done and so on. It is also found that the State itself or its institutions do not respect the rights of citizens. Prolonged procedures and decisions on the rights, for example, of insured persons within the Department of Health Insurance or the rights of patients are long-term. In particular, we would like to point out that, for the rule of law, trials are particularly unacceptable, as citizens are waiting for their right to go years and years. It is of concern that even the State authorities themselves do not comply with the constitutional provisions already in force, for example, on discrimination against persons with disabilities with regard to the reasonable adjustment for the exercise of their rights. However, unclear legislation is not, in particular, an excuse for state authorities, since Article 15 of our Constitution provides for the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms directly on the basis of the Constitution. In the SLS Group, we agree to adopt recommendations for the Government and try to influence the long-standing problems that recur year after year, but begin to resolve. We agree with the principally proposed conclusions or recommendations that summarise the Ombudsman's most keen warnings, but we have some comments and concerns to some. Roma as a special chapter. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the inappropriate approach to solving the Roma problem. We will support the Government's recommendations adopted by the Commission, because it is finally necessary to make the right moves. All efforts to integrate Roma are futile if we do not act effectively. With the adoption of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, we have been given a formal basis for action and an opportunity for Roma to participate in the design and regulation of their situation in an organised manner. We see the essence of addressing this issue in the Group of Members, in particular in three measures. Firstly, in our society, we need to clearly determine who is responsible and to do so. As in other areas, too, the problem is being tackled by a lack of cross-cutting cooperation and coordinated cooperation with local communities. Secondly, our main problems for Roma integration are the regulation of living conditions and the spatial placement of Roma settlements and education and Roma education. Thirdly, the State must provide resources and sufficient resources at inter-ministerial level for measures to regulate housing conditions and for pre-school and school education and education for Roma children. If we do not allow children there until the third, fourth year of contact with peers and vocational education and further education, we have condemned another generation to live on the edge of society. In the case of the chapter on Administrative Affairs, we would like to point out in the SLS Group that it is possible to adequately address the longstanding issue of the status of former SFRJ citizens in Slovenia, not on the basis of law, most effectively and definitively with the relevant constitutional law. We cannot agree at all that decisions would be given to so-called deleted persons without an adequate legal basis, as we have pointed out since the adoption of the Constitutional Decision since 2003. In our view, this issue would be definitively removed from the agenda of the National Assembly and the annual reports of the Ombudsman if we finally adopted an appropriate constitutional law that can only resolve the accumulated problem in all years of inadequate attempts to resolve it. We also wish to draw attention to the correction of injustices to smell victims, where we should take into account that injustices and post-war killings are also a very pressing issue in our society, which should be dealt with in a dignified and definitive manner as soon as possible. It is unacceptable to build a foundation for democracy on the injustices committed and unexplored killings, especially those done outside the war storm. It is difficult to speak of respect for human rights if we share and discriminate in this respect. It is therefore necessary to bring about a just completion of denationalisation, which is inadvertently long-lasting. Are the victims of war also those who were affected after the war without legal but only for political reasons? In the fourth chapter dealing with justice, we could say that the following is an unfinished story in our country. Surely we cannot talk about the rule of law if citizens have to wait unreasonablely long for decisions in the courts. While the Court's response report can take stock of the claims that the trend is changing, more decisive action is needed in the area of the judiciary to reduce judicial backlogs. The lack of social housing, as shown in the chapter on housing matters, is also very attractive in our country. In the SLS, we always insist that it is necessary to help young families and socially disadvantaged people effectively to a decent home. In the area of pension and disability insurance, it is certainly necessary to ensure that insured persons are better informed and, in particular, to reduce long-term procedures for the enforcement and acquisition of pension and disability benefits. We would like to support better regulation of children's rights and more effective regulation of the family problem in the context of the consideration of the annual report by Members of the SLS. We therefore support the early adoption of the family code already drawn up by the government in the previous mandate. With the introduction of many better solutions, with the introduction of family courts, which will be more professionally trained and faster to resolve procedures, and with the better competence of all those responsible in this area, we will be more concerned in our society with the protection of the weakest, while at the same time the most valuable members in our society - our children. Therefore, in the SLS, we have long supported the establishment of a special guardian of children's rights. Social. We will support the recommendation, but we would also like to point out that it is necessary to adopt as soon as possible a law that will regulate the field of volunteer work and allow all those who want to re-engage or remain active even during the third life period and with their experiences to enrich our society and, above all, to help people in distress. In the end, I thank the Ombudsman for her work, and I wish them that the report for next year contains fewer pages and fewer chapters that are being repeated. Dear colleagues, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished representatives, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! It's part of our responsibility. Let's be aware of her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bogovich. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u18	Honourable Vice-President, respect for the Ombudsman with his co-workers! Dear Minister, ministers, representatives of the government! The main guide we advocate in the LDS is that, regardless of nationality, race, political, religious or any other affiliation, sex, sexual orientation or lifestyle, all people have the same rights and we must have the same opportunities to exercise them. That is why we are aware of the fact that human rights and freedoms are at the heart of every democracy, and that the country itself can be a factor in the abuse of citizens in the LDS, as has been the case so far, particularly sensitive to the issue of human rights and freedoms. In the LDS, we estimate that the exemplary level of human rights consolidation and respect in recent years, particularly in recent years, has been greatly reduced. The cases of forced displacement of the Roma family and deleted re-examine prove that human rights and freedoms have never been acquired once and for all, but that they must be re-established and protected every day. In these cases, it has been shown that the State and its institutions were not in a position to ensure the protection of the rights of the affected. Furthermore, the use of new technologies brings new dangers and potential abuses of human dignity. We are therefore particularly concerned about the report of the Ombudsman. Human rights are areas where no society can be satisfied with the level achieved, as often new knowledge and technological development as a side effect bring new opportunities for abuse. That is why we will be extremely sensitive to these issues until the future, always on guard and able to detect minor emerging forms. All of our actions, as well as our support for today's recommendations on human rights and human dignity and in order to strengthen awareness of the importance of human rights, we will strive to raise standards in this area and support the requirements of civil society in particular for consistent respect for human rights. We will support the upgrading of legislation, regulation and the consistent enforcement of the rule of law and public awareness. For this reason, we must all together make it possible to fulfil the mission of the Ombudsman Institute. In LDS, we are in our pre-election programme to set up regional offices in administrative units, which would bring the work of this important institution of democratic society closer to those who will be able to focus their problems on it where they live. As we read this year's report, we find in the LDS that certain issues arise from year to year. We are talking about the issue of deleted, the issue of national minorities, the correction of injustices, the unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court, judicial failures, the planned reduction of the authority of individual institutions, the protection of personal data, discriminatory treatment and the work of the legal and social situation, the resolution of housing problems, children's rights and issues in the field of the media. We will support the proposed recommendation in the LDS together with the amendments. However, we fear that there will be more talk in the coming year about violations of fundamental economic and social rights due to the situation. In the light of economic change, the issue of social well-being will still be at stake. Let us not forget Article 2 of the Constitution, but in addition to the rule of law, it also speaks of Slovenia as a social state because the requirement for adequate care of the country is written for both the material and social security of citizens and citizens. However, we thank the Ombudsman and her colleagues for the well-prepared report for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gumzar. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u20	Dear Mr. Vice President! Respectable Guardian of Human Rights! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Ombudsman's report, we can read that there was no information on the violation of the so-called indigenous national communities during the period to which the report relates. The report also notes that the trend of such warnings by members of the national communities is declining. On the basis of the above, it could therefore be concluded that the situation in this area is ideal. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Otherwise, the report also states that, despite the formal passivity of members of indigenous national communities, it is not possible to exclude the possibility of violations of national rights. As we have already found many times, the legal level of protection of indigenous Hungarian and Italian nationalities in the Republic of Slovenia is undoubtedly high. But it is also true that, despite a good legal state of affairs, the real realization of rights is lacking, as legitimate organisations of indigenous national communities are constantly pointing out. Incoherences among others are recorded in the provision of bilingual documents and forms, in the actual application of the language of the national communities, although there are official languages in the national mixed area, in the area of the equivalence of the language of the national communities in employment, also in the economic sphere, in the provision of information on the use of medicines, in the field of communication with patients who are members of the national communities in hospitals, and in other areas. Those who know the nature of the minority problem, i.e. the nature and experience of the national identity in the ethnic community, well know that in the field of the declaration of possible inconsistencies or offences there are prejudices based on negative experiences in the past. It is only difficult for a member of the national community to contact a certain national institution to express his possible neglect in the field of national identity and use of the mother tongue. This conclusion is also true in the case of a relationship with the Office of the Ombudsman, which is due mainly to the relatively youngness of the institution in our country and to the lack of sufficient information on the content and nature of its operation. In the case of a relationship between the Ombudsman's institution and the national community, unfortunately, both sides are not informed, as we have recently found together with the Ombudsman. Although one of the deputies is also responsible for questions of possible infringements in the field of the rights of national communities in the current organisation of the Office, the above-mentioned cases, as we can understand from the 2007 report, do not come to the right address. In relation to the report, however, we have not tabled an amendment because we have decided with the Office of Human Rights to change our way of improving the situation. We will be discussing this issue at the Commission's February meeting for the National Communities. In order to better inform members of the national communities, we will also organise a meeting with the Office of the Ombudsman of the Nationality Area in the case of the Hungarian National Community. Of course, we are not only doing these activities for formal reasons, but we want to make better use of the Ombudsman's potential in the field of human rights and contribute to the continued practical realization of the specific rights of indigenous national communities. In this context, we also want to move forward with regard to reducing inconsistencies and violations in the field of the rights of national communities. I'm sure we can be successful together. In the context of good cooperation, we will also be able to explain some issues of a substantive nature, such as the difference between collective right and the individual's right and the issue of an extremely complex separation between the two in the event of possible infringements or inconsistencies. If such activities did not contribute to the improvement of the situation, it is likely that it would be prudent to consider the specific institution of the Ombudsman of Minority or Nationality Rights. Finally, I would like to point out that we agree with the conclusion set out in the report on the need to address some pressing issues in the area of Roma issues and other ethnic and ethnic communities. We believe that any delay in a particular issue only deepens, which is not in the interest of anyone. The sweeping of sensitive issues under carpets often leads to even greater opportunities for untransparent warming of individual problems or cases. It is essential to address any sensitive issue of approach with the greatest possible degree of expertise, not based on prejudice and partial political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gonch. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Ombudsman Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik with Deputy and Deputy, Honourable Representatives of the Government, Ambassador and Members! The 13th regular report of the Ombudsman puts before the Group of Social Democrats as a challenging task for all Members and Members to think and judge on its basis what the state of human rights is, this is the way for 2007. Here we find ourselves in a situation where many individual cases need to be selected and decided on which individual cases to give special attention to at this plenary session. Therefore, my report, on behalf of the Group of Members, is only a response to the introductory chapters, while Members and Members will respond with their comments to a specific part that deals with individual infringements. If we are thinking about the Ombudsman's report, I would help myself with the previous sign of the Ombudsman, when the left hand needs to be added to the right, so I am also putting in the report a response report from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, pointing out that this response report is, however, a response to human rights violations in 2007 and that this is actually a response from the previous government to what the Ombudsman has pointed out. Only in the future will we be able to see what the Government, which took up the term of office at the end of last year, has it arranged on the basis of recommendations to be adopted by the National Assembly. And let me draw your attention to that. At the 2006 report, the National Assembly adopted 29 recommendations. Now we have the proposed 35. If I take further proposals for amendments into account, and if those proposals are also adopted, three new recommendations will be adopted in the 13th report with 38 recommendations. And if we look at what is in the government's response report attributed to the implementation of the recommendations, then I find that 8 recommendations are simply without any response and we do not know how the government responded to those recommendations. We therefore attach to the Ombudsman's call for systematic monitoring of the implementation of the Ombudsman's reports. If we had done so, if we were to approach more systematically those words that are repeated in the report, then, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, we would have found solutions more quickly and some things would have been resolved more quickly. A particular problem in this package is a recommendation that needs to be specifically mentioned and is part of a group of those who have long been pointing out the injustice suffered by the State. We will support the amendment that advocates a consistent implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, and we cannot agree to a recommendation which reiterates the proposal for a constitutional law on deleted persons. For we believe that this is a deterioration of the confidence and authority of the Constitutional Court, and unfortunately it is not the only institution that has been subjected to attempts to discredit or overstep decisions in the past. It is also impossible to overlook the fact that some statements that have been drawn for a long time, which sometimes refer to a specific person exercising a position, the Ombudsman’s institution, but also to the Ombudsman’s attitude to try to reduce the authority of this institution in many cases. We believe, however, that over all the years, the institution of the Ombudsman has, in the consciousness of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, confirmed that it has also helped greatly to systematically raise awareness of human rights and also of the powers of the Ombudsman. I would also like to touch on the issue of enlargement belongs to cases. In 2007, she became the Ombudsman of Dr Zdenka Cebašek Travnik. It is stated that the number of cases filed has increased and it should also be concluded what is happening to the situation of human rights in Slovenia. Whether increasing cases also means reducing the security felt by citizens and citizens and other residents of this country, reducing or reducing the standards of fundamental freedoms. We believe that there are several factors that are contributing to this. Finally, before the National Committee for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities on Exchange, at each new reference, the number of applications is slightly increased. In part, it is also likely that awareness of the individual priorities set by the Ombudsman has helped. Here I am primarily referring to a group of those comments or cases relating to the protection of children's rights. It could also be listed in this context, for example, also rights from working relations and other social rights or rights which are violated in relation to the functioning of companies. In our view, it is certainly a number of factors that have an impact on the increase in cases. Social Democrats would, of course, be pleased if this did not in fact mean more frequent violations of human rights and neglect of fundamental freedoms, because we have not overlooked that in some places in the report it is possible to see a warning about lowering standards for the protection of human rights. In particular, I have in mind asylum-seekers and refugees. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that some of the initiatives in the drafting of the legislation have been ignored, but that they later proved to be highly justified by a decision of the Constitutional Court or by any other decision. I mean those things that are connected to placement, with the powers of the advocate of the principle of equal treatment and advocates of the principle of equality between women and men. We Social Democrats were still convinced, when the amendment was adopted, that the current legal arrangements of the institution of advocate or advocate are not regulated in such a way as to ensure full independence. It is true that independence has ensured the authority by which an institution can protect an individual when state institutions or other entities are held by a public defender when they are human rights violators. We therefore believe that it would be good to pay attention and to strengthen the participation of NGOs and the public concerned in the preparation of legislative proposals wherever they directly touch human rights and fundamental freedoms. We also insist that the Ombudsman has formal and informal channels that can affect awareness and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We believe that responding to politically sensitive issues is an essential component of the Ombudsman's action and the Ombudsman's right to choose the cases in which he will respond. We also give full consent to those warnings that say that it is necessary to seek the answer to the question whether legitimate conduct is also a hereditary act of righteousness, a special emphasis in the operation of the Ombudsman, for it is the Ombudsman who is responsible for the exercise of justice. It seems to us a very important warning from the European Ombudsman, who says that the Ombudsman can determine for himself what is good or bad governance of public affairs. This is, last but not least, based on article 3 of the 1993 Law on the Ombudsman. And here we give it to the Ombudsman, who believes that when the state and on behalf of the Government and other state institutions, and the Ombudsman, on behalf of the commentators, does not find a common language, that perhaps mediation is also the right way. Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the 2007 report of the Ombudsman. We thank the Ombudsman and all her colleagues for their hard work. We will also support most of the recommendations adopted by the Commission, and in those we cannot agree with, we have tabled amendments together with the coalition partners, and we will support them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Ms Eva Irgl, however, will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear Guardian of Human Rights, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the 13th regular report of the Ombudsman for 2007. This is certainly a considerable amount of material that offers us insight into the human rights situation, respect for human rights and, above all, sanctioning human rights violations. In it today, we can understand what has been done in this area, in which cases things have improved, in which cases some things have remained unresolved, open, and in which cases things may have worsened. In short, it represents an important record and a cross-section of the state in all areas of operation of the State and in individual cases, which are also dealt with by the Ombudsman and her co-workers. It should be mentioned that today, in fact, the first report, which was entirely under the auspices of the new guardian, is before us today, so for the first time today, we can make a comparison between what subjects were dealt with during the previous guardian’s time and what topics are being addressed today or on which subjects are given greater weight. At the time of her term of office, the Ombudsman said that she would focus her attention on more vulnerable groups of people, such as older people, disabled people, children. It also stated that it would devote significantly more time to topics such as poverty and measures related to it, social violence and environmental issues, i.e. to maintaining a healthy and clean environment. Through the report today, we can see that the guardian has not only remained in words, but also through actions within the report. And this is certainly a positive step forward in the operation of the guardian. It was clear during the time of the previous Ombudsman that he deals mainly with one and the same topics, so-called marginal groups, and unfortunately forgets those individuals in society. And this is in no way in line with the responsibilities of the Ombudsman to all citizens and citizens when he is confirmed for such a function by the National Assembly. We must be aware that in Slovenia there are other groups of people who are being violated human rights who are in severe distress and need help. There have been many who have been alerting their rights for years, such as those injured between the second and the second world wars, and we do not talk about them as widely and long as we do about those who have been erased. We don't give them so much space in the media, probably because these people don't have the whole cycle of left-wing political parties and so-called non-governmental organisations behind them, but the media that they would support in the exercise of their rights and instead raise their voices when they need this attention and protection. Fundamental human rights should never and never be beaten, not by an individual, not by a particular group and, of course, not by the State. Unfortunately, we are in the world, and in some cases also Slovenia is no exception when we are still witnessing human rights violations and thus interfering with human integrity and dignity. Since the Ombudsman's report relates to 2007 and thus to the functioning of the previous Government, I would like to draw attention to the following. The entire previous mandate has been tried by parties in power today, through the media skillfully, and every day, to launch messages publicly, saying that it is Janša's government that does not respect human rights and therefore threatens the functioning of the rule of law. Thus, there was an attempt to form a general public opinion that the left is the one with respect for human rights and the right is the one that violates them. And many times it turned out to be the other way around. And history also shows that the parties, the successors of the system, who strictly, gravely and uncompromisingly violated human rights and intimidated all those who did not think in the way the system at the time, find it difficult for others to explain in such a vehement and patronizing manner the protection of human rights. And today we are witnessing an extremely interesting situation in Slovenia, which shows that in some segments we are returning right back in the protection of human rights - which is not good for Slovenia and is not good for its citizens. Why am I saying this? All important state functions are represented by the left. He's got practically all the media in his hands. In the key positions of civil society, it is exclusively its representatives. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will therefore be extremely interested in monitoring the next Ombudsman's report and, of course, waiting to see whether this record will be able to be found in this report, and in my view not a purely normal and unhealthy situation in this country, in which democracy should certainly be ruled, and above all a spectrum of different thinking. Today, unfortunately, we cannot be satisfied with such a state. We can safely say that a certain part of the population, which is also entitled to a different opinion, is a violation of human rights. It is also interesting that, in the previous term, we have dealt with several grave human rights interventions on the part of the ruling party on the part of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Let me mention only three names: Weber, Rob, Lukšič. We all remember these stories. Why am I saying this? Although human rights have been violated, these people have not appeared in this year’s report by the Ombudsman as an example of human rights violations. Let us remember how former Member Rupar found himself not only in all media but also in the next report of the Ombudsman because of the inappropriate statement that I will tell you more about later. This certainly shows that it does not matter what you do, what you say, but, above all, what is important is that you belong to the right political option. To go back. In the field of human rights, the government of Janez Janša has adopted a series of measures and laws establishing a better basis for consistent respect for human rights. This is also supported by the Ombudsman in his report, which is also supported by the State Council report. Thus, the Law on same-sex partnerships was adopted in the previous term. Let me remind you that this is the law that, more than eight years ago, was brought together by both LDS and SD, together with NGOs, of course, but none of it was. They only spoke for eight years and there was no result, even though they had a majority in Parliament. In short, the gap between words and actions. The Law on Patient Rights was also adopted, which, of course, does not solve all problems, but is an important step forward. The Law on Religious Freedom was adopted, which, both after more than 30 years, regulates this fundamental human right in a European comparable way. We have adopted a hard-to-see Law on Mental Health, and the Law on the Implementation of the Principles of Equal Treatment has been adopted and, last but not least, the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, the first law that systematically defines the problem, protects the victim, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the perpetrators of violence, on the other hand, are given the opportunity to face their inadmissible behaviour through experts involved in this problem, for reasons why violence occurs on his part, and, hopefully, in spite of all that, we can learn about these inequitable acts of violence when it comes to a weaker one. Whether it be physical, psychological, economic, sexual, or emotional. We are certainly aware of the need to achieve zero tolerance for social violence today. However, first of all, this means that we must not close our eyes to these problems and problems. The images of violence and harsh treatment of schoolchildren are certainly an alarm that warns us that all competent institutions, including the Ministry of Education and Sport, need to devote much more time to these issues. The next topic that appears within the report, which is certainly important, is the issue of the media. More specifically, the issue of sensational reporting. Thus, within the report, the Ombudsman warns that the media are always giving the advantage of sensationalism too many times. Sensational reporting, which, we must admit, comes not only because of the desire of media owners for greater viewership and reading, but also because of the political elements that try to influence people's opinion through the media, causes media with such actions to interfere with human integrity, to damage the individual's reputation, to blacken him out to the public, and they can do so only on the basis of speculation and flooding, not concrete evidence. And that is why I would like to remind you here of Patria's extremely resounding affair when the former Prime Minister of the Government, who then presided over the European Union, was accused of taking bribes just before the elections in Slovenia. Without any evidence, the media has published this sensational story, this news, which is more than obvious, even in view of the laughter that is present from these parties, has been produced in the political circles that are now in power and run this country, along with the journalists who belong to it. The severe accusation of the former Prime Minister of the Government is certainly an unacceptable act without a case that calls for the fact that when the matter is, let us hope that when it is proved in court and clarified that those who have done so will step down from their positions and that all those who are skilled will have to admit it, politically launch in public just before the elections and answer for it. The report also warns that it is unacceptable for the media to reveal the identity of children. What is particularly worrying is the information recorded by the Ombudsman in the report, namely that such violations are still taking place in the wake of a sensational report on family tragedies and revealing the identity and privacy of children, despite warning. And more than that, they're even stepping up. The Ombudsman is therefore of the opinion that the rules for reporting children in the media should be regulated systematically, for example by the media law. One of our recommendations that we have adopted on the Petitions Commission and on human rights and equal opportunities, and we will deal with them later, goes in this direction. With regard to the legislation on the protection of children in the media, it must also be said that in the case of domestic violence, as I have said before, a law on the prevention of domestic violence has been adopted where a specific article within this law regulates that issue. For victims or perpetrators of violence must not be publicly transmitted data on the basis of which the victim or her family could be identified. Data may only be transmitted with the consent of a full-year victim. Of course, this law imposes on parents, children’s caregivers, foster parents or foster parents the responsibility to protect their children from exposure to the public in the context of the implementation of their care. In the previous mandate, a new criminal code was also adopted, although it was poorly adopted in public by left-wing political parties, but it brings significant innovations in the above-mentioned area of child protection in the context of media exposure. The offence is to publish the personal data of a child who is a participant in a judicial, administrative or any other proceedings or to publish other information on the basis of which his or her identity could be identified. The penalty is a fine or a sentence of up to three years. In the framework of the establishment of the paedophiles register, it should also be pointed out that, at the end of May, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was already adopted, with a view to increasing the protection of children, as pointed out by the Ombudsman in his report, he also introduced a specific criminal record. The special record shall include convictions for offences of sexual assault against a person under the age of 15 in connection with a violation of sexual integrity and abuse of the situation where the offence concerns a minor. However, data are also stored in the records after the deletion of the conviction in the criminal record. In the Ethics section, the Ombudsman explains that the number of initiatives in this area has decreased. It assesses or substantiates this by explaining that the reduced impact is related to the repetition of warnings that the Ombudsman does not have jurisdiction over the media and journalists. In addition, it explains that for many years they have been pointing out the need for more effective mechanisms within journalists' associations to tackle ethical rules of the journalistic profession impartially. Therefore, the Ombudsman also proposes that, given the fact that the Association of Journalists of Slovenia does not take into account exactly those media that most often unduly interfere with personal rights, consideration should be given to more effective mechanisms, since self-regulation - we can now see and understand - is obviously not working. And we're already talking about a subject that I can't get past, and the guardian is also giving her a lot of attention. We're talking about hate speech in the media. I have already said on the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities that within this political space and the media, hate speech is dealt with by double criteria. In our case, hate speech is not judged by what someone has said but by who has said something. So I don't have to think about it, let me illustrate it with a case. We all remember the previous statement by Member Rupar -- I have already said something about this before -- addressed to the two Members. The statement, which, in my opinion, and also in the opinion of the SDS Group, was unacceptable and totally unacceptable, expressed a sexist, hateful speech and prejudiced the human dignity or dignity of two Members. This statement was written in the media, and I will not say how much time, months and months, even though the Member of Parliament has made a public apology. And the messenger was also in the guardian's report. However, interestingly, before the elections of one of these two Members, a statement was made at exactly the same level as the Rupar statement, and was equally sexist and hostile to the then President of the Government, Janez Janša. And it wasn't talked about. And here's what was said, not even a long petition was signed. In short, the extremely double criteria that appear also in the fact that the Member has resigned from his post and the Member has been rewarded for her statement by the City of Minister, not by any minister, but by a cultural minister. And this minister also stood before the elections to prosecute the appearance of hate speech in the public. Of course, we all agree, but then it was just before the elections that she was spreading hate speech. And again we are among the words, on the one hand, and on the other. Of course, we all agree that this area needs to be regulated, but it is necessary to be consistent, fair, and above all to have the same standards for all, regardless of the political options that come from. The report also mentions a hate speech, which is also spread on the web portals in particular. There's always more. This is pointed out by the guardian inside the report. On the inside, it is also noted that, at the time of the adoption of the RTV Act, there was a missed opportunity for an independent guardian of the rights of viewers and audiences in RTV, but today this has already been resolved, today we have a guardian of the rights of viewers and listeners. The Ombudsman's report also pays a lot of attention to the issue of mobile or workplace suffering, which appears to be a growing problem within the public sector. The Ombudsman specifically draws attention to the problem of bullying former journalists today, the renewed Mag Igor Kršinar and Silvestra Shurla weekly, whose case of inadmissible behaviour by the management of the Mag week was also discussed at the petitions commission and for human rights and equal opportunities. Journalists, as well as the Ombudsman, also informed us that they had been subjected to psychological violence and abusive treatment by those responsible for the Mag week, which meant that one of the journalists had to seek medical help. There has also been inadmissible punishment for journalists by degradation or transfer to another job, which has been humiliating and insulting in view of the education and work that these two journalists have done until then in good faith and in good faith. The Ombudsman also maintains in the report that in this case there has been unjustifiable punishment of journalists who, by their actions, have defended only their own integrity and dignity and the independence of the journalistic profession, so such acts are not only questionable in terms of labour law, but also in terms of fundamental principles of journalistic ethics, which are also based on the provisions of the Media Act. Mobing or suffering in the workplace is today, thank God that the Penal Code has been adopted in the previous term, the offence referred to in Article 197 and is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. Article 6 of the Labour Relations Act also prohibits sexual and other harassment and torture in the workplace. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also specifies that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security, which means that state authorities and all individuals must respect the right to personal dignity and security. The consequences of the mobbingo are also well aware of the European Union, which warns that one third of all working days are lost due to disease and absence, which are unfortunately the consequences of the mobile. The costs resulting from this lack go to thousands of billions of euros. This is a sufficiently eloquent information that shows that we need to talk more about this issue and take it as a force for a serious phenomenon within the working environment. Of course, within the report, the guardian is also concerned with or devoted to the issue of the deleted. But it is not to be seen that I would deal in such detail with the status of victims of war violence. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that on the issue of the regulation of the status of so-called deleted and victims of war violence, double criteria are highlighted, both by the ruling authorities and by the Office of Human Rights. We are convinced that the regulation of both issues of the human rights position is equally important. We can't or can't get past the comparison that Borut Pahor's government is squeezing for so-called eraseds, but it doesn't recognize the physical extinction or deliberate liquidation of thousands of Slovenians after World War II. Today, we are in a situation where the internal ministry uncompromisingly claims that it will begin by enforcing decisions and possibly also by returning compensation to so-called deleted persons. But he forgets about the victims of war violence. In the light of the treatment of equal opportunities and respect for human rights, we believe that victims of war violence and their relatives have, in our opinion, a long-standing legal irregular status and should therefore be given priority. However, double criteria apply again in that country. However, those who acted contrary to Slovenia's independent aspirations in 1991 and despite the calls to regulate their status did not want to do so. Of course, every story carries within it cases of injustice. And it is precisely because of individual cases where injustice may have been committed that we are defending in the Slovenian Democratic Party a constitutional law to resolve the situation of such persons. However, we cannot participate in the SDS in the implementation of a coalition plan, which even those involved in the attack on Slovenia not only wants to regulate the status, but also to pay damages in return. In such a case, human rights violations could certainly occur to other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that, despite the fact that he holds a majority coalition in the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, a decision has been reached concerning the situation of the so-called deleted. The Commission decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should adopt a constitutional law to regulate the situation of so-called deleted persons. The Commission's decision on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities further states that each case of deleted persons should be dealt with separately, i.e. individually, and that those who have actively participated in the attack on the sole State of Slovenia are excluded from the treatment and that compensation is effectively restricted or excluded from the so-called deleted compensation. Despite the fact that this decision, which I have already read, has been adopted by a majority of the coalition committee, these same coalition groups today are making an amendment to this already adopted decision, which also shows that the parties in power are not exactly compatible or in a sounding manner with themselves, which is certainly not good, given the time we are in. If the amendments, in conjunction with the deleted proposed by the coalition, are voted on, we will vote against them in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in spite of the other acceptable recommendations that we have also endorsed on the Petitions Commission. We find it extremely inappropriate that the people who opposed the independence of Slovenia, who even participated in the attacks on Slovenia, will be rewarded for this "great" act, under quotations, of course, even with the payment of compensation for the return. Even today, when we know what kind of situation we're in. On the one hand, the top of Slovenian politics is talking about compensations erased, and on the other hand daily there are forgivenesss of workers and workers who have worked their whole lives for low wages honestly, done their jobs, and today they are even without this salary. This is totally unacceptable for us, even if we have another context on the other hand, if we know that, on the other hand, questions regarding victims of war violence have not been resolved for years and years. The Slovenian nation certainly does not deserve such two-faced, unacceptable moves by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u26	Dear President! Madam Guardian Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Many problems have been mentioned, many general matters have been heard, so I will limit myself to just a few matters. First of all, the conditions for the work of institutions dealing with the protection of human rights. It is unacceptable and inappropriate that an institution such as the Ombudsman has been asking for the systemisation of three professional colleagues for several years. When an administration is rich in government, or it is, years ago, such cases are unbelievable. The conditions of all supervisory authorities, supervisory institutions, are also extremely poor. The report identifies the working conditions of the Labour Inspectorate, the impossible staffing, financial, organisational conditions and so on. Not to mention prisons. Here one may wonder who is actually being punished in these prisons, those who control them, or those who guard them. Everyone in their own way, everyone in their own way. You can't work under such conditions. One of the concrete topics that has not yet been exposed today is religious rights. I am referring mainly to members of smaller religious communities here. Today, we have heard in the general report that the matter has settled with the Law on Religious Freedom. However, it has been arranged by introducing a majority system in this area. What does that mean? Let me illustrate. European Commission President Barroso came to Slovenia last year and the protocol requested that this meeting be attended by two representatives of trade unions. Of course, the logic of the situation led to the participation of the president of the largest union and the second largest union. Another case from the European Council. In the premises of the Council of Europe there is a chapel, a large place where every member of any religious community can go, pray, spends a few minutes marking their faith. Clinical center in Ljubljana. I take my 96-year-old father several times, and he lived on this site, in Vodmat, and he has memories, and only a member of the largest religious community can go to this chapel. Why wouldn't this place settle down - if you understand what I consider to be a majority system?Oh, my God! Why not have such a place that a Muslim may have some place to mark his faith so that he may feel good there too. Why just one?Oh, my God! Why is he broadcasting the Ghost Horizon? These are the horizons of the spirit of the greatest religious community, so the concept of the show is, so it is watered. And through this law and through various rules we have actually introduced that one has everything, the other has nothing. Religious Kurats, priests. Why are these funds not intended to provide religious care for all?Oh, my God! It is not appropriate for a representative, a priest, to be employed in prison, but I personally respect him that he is in the position of an official who then invites, say, a mufti to come to prison. This should be different, more hygienic. The prison officer shall ensure that all users in prison have the possibility of religious care. Why are the funds earmarked for only one?Oh, my God! The majority system is not a domain of democracy, and we also introduce a plural system in this area to make members of smaller religious communities feel equal. And another area that is specifically mine. It's a work area. Interestingly, when I read the chapters, I saw several of these content sets: psychological violence, problems with the work of the inspectorate, employment of journalists, professional rehabilitation. Two elements that I know well are two segments of these labour relations: temporary employment and labour borrowing, but not in the report. Also, the Ombudsman, if these matters are not within the scope of the case, does not, of course, have to deal with these matters. At the same time, I am asked a rhetorical question - How can it be that in these areas where legislation is systematically violated for several years, for example: the Institute of Employment is so limited for a certain period of time that it should practically not be. And we know that among young people, 60.70% of employees are based on temporary employment contracts. Borrowing the labour force or, as it is legally said, providing the work of employers has completely given birth to users in all years, as I observe. Agencies practically do not provide money at a time when the worker passes from one employer to another. As a rule, his working relationship is terminated and, under the law, he should receive at least 70% of his salary at that time. The 2007 survey showed that there is virtually no payment during the period of retirement, waiting for another employer. A number of matters could still be mentioned, but I think with certain matters I have only completed this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am, the guardian! In its implementation, I would limit myself to five chapters of the report, namely discrimination, restrictions on freedom, justice, police procedures and administrative matters. Of course, I can't touch everything I want, so let me just stress what I think is most important. The report discusses ethnic minorities, particularly German ones, and the question that the Government and the National Assembly do not somehow define themselves on this issue. I must say that, according to my assessment of Article 61 of the Constitution, this situation is extremely well regulated if, of course, we combine it with cultural agreements such as those signed with Austria, I think these matters are relatively well arranged. I don't think it makes sense for us to specifically stress these things in the Ombudsman's report, because these things are going abroad. In 2005, I led a special Slovenian delegation to the United Nations Committee on Human Rights and asked this question. And of course, I feel that we have said relatively successfully why we insist on the 61st Article of the Constitution. The second issue I want to address is the situation of the Roma community. Of course, we have also stressed that it is relatively comprehensively regulated by the system law adopted at the time of the previous Government. Somehow you criticize the fact that the law places it in a privileged position or whatever the largest Roma community or organization. It is true, however, that it is necessary to know that a country must engage in dialogue in this area and that it is difficult to lead it with every Roma community in the country if you want. The next matter to be touched is the situation of the disabled. I welcome everything in your report. I am deeply convinced that much remains to be done in the field of disabled persons. As far as alternative sanctions are concerned, with which the report also deals heavily, I am talking about alternative criminal sanctions. It must be said that the new penal code and law and the ZIKS have done a great deal in the year following us, in this area, and has greatly accelerated this type of sentence. And I think that's good. I agree with the Ombudsman's initiative to carry out medical checks in prisons in a certain way. Of course, I could not agree with the Ombudsman’s claim that doctors should question those detained, imprisoned persons who might be injured in the proceedings. Indeed, it is something that doctors should treat, and those who are qualified to do so should be questioned. I absolutely support your criticism of health institutions, in particular the part concerning individual hospitals, such as the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana, which simply says that people from the Age will not be accepted. This is totally unacceptable behavior, and I hope that the law adopted last year in this area has contributed to the fact that this will never happen again. However, I cannot agree with your demands as a former member of the police, who, for example, I know a little better about safety, or about the performance of security tasks, so that the security personnel are protected when they are incarcerated by a doctor, so that they will not be in the visible or hearing field with a closed person. This means somewhere under a window or in a hallway. This is simply not possible in many cases because it is a matter of the safety of health personnel and, on the other hand, the question of the possibility of the escape of prisoners, and this is simply not feasible in my opinion, technically not feasible. Next, I would very much like to say that it is right to point out the necessary programmes of work with prisoners when they are dismissed. As we know, the returnees are extremely large in our country, so I believe that last year's actions by the Ministry of Justice have greatly improved the situation you are describing in 2007. I understand your warnings about poor living conditions in prisons. You talk, even a little while ago my forerunner talked about this, about high temperatures, 31 degrees Celsius and more, you talk about the question of the sufficient number of nail clips in closed persons, you talk about the issue of fitness studies in closed persons. See, in principle, I also support your efforts to improve conditions in our prisons, but it would also be good to look at those 6 and so many patients in some hospital department who are dying on a few square meters, and they are not allowed to do so, or say the employees of the Glass Rogaška Slatina, who at not 31, but who are significantly more than one degree fluent in running glass and get up to 500 euros or less. And don't take that as a criticism. However, I understand your efforts, but I think these efforts are excessive, because we are talking about prisoners because they have sinned against this country's legislation. I kind of missed a visit to the prison in Cyprus, which is superstandard to be a complete picture of the state of the country. I strongly support all your efforts in the field of justice. You're critical of the court's backlog. I was also very pleased to hear from your report on page 82, where you speak of the need to do more in order not to see lower courts overturned and returned to lower courts by higher courts, but to speed up decision-making at a second stage. I think that the legislation adopted last year in this area has done something. Of course I'm talking about the Law of Justice, the Law of Offences, etc. In particular, I welcome your claim in the report that the state must ensure the independence of the judiciary. This does not mean their irresponsibility. I believe that it is necessary, in particular, for those who, in the coming period, will write laws in this area, to take this seriously, because I also stand up for myself and always defend the independence of the judiciary, but also work and responsibility. On this side, much has been done in the previous mandate in the area of legislative amendments, much less if nothing, but by the judges. You're hailing Project Lukend. I am joining this, which in many courts has reduced the number of trials in many ways, and I also welcome the intention of the current government to continue with this area. Your warnings about electronic court conduct are also very useful. I join you here in particular because sometimes I think they live a little while longer in stone age. I am extremely happy and I am expressing all the recognition in the part where you speak on pages 94 and 95 about the so-called critics of the bar. You even went so far as to write down more than the previous government might have even hoped in amended legislation in the past year. Look, you're pointing out that you just don't have an accomplice. You ask not only the question of minimum, including maximum, lawyer tariffs, the question of the liability of lawyers, you ask yourself about disciplinary proceedings against lawyers. You realize that lawyers are represented by lawyers in disciplinary proceedings, and that external supervision of the disciplinary authorities of lawyers is needed. You are alerting us to charge photocopies, reminding us of the critical relationship that the Bar Association has with you. A confession for what they wrote down. At the same time, I can say that we took one decisive step forward in the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Lawyers last year. Even though we were criticized by the opposition then in the National Assembly, these two laws went in this direction. And it is expected that the Constitutional Court, I think one of these two laws is still in constitutional court, will act responsibly and will read this part of your report. I also hope that all visits by the Justice Minister to the Bar and the announced amendment of these two laws in this mandate will take into account all that you have written down. I hope the Justice Minister does the same. I'm very pleased with the chapters of the Police Procedures. I have been following this chapter somehow or following the official duty since the first report of the Ombudsman. And if you've been following that report and you've been following all the reports to yours, then you'll see that the police's response to the guardian is extremely good, and that things in this area change extremely well, so that today you don't even point out any horrible big things on the part of the police, but to such small things as error in the payment order and so on. The situation has improved greatly. I want the bar to take a look at all 10 of your reports. Of course, I have to be critical of the question you're asking the Strojans. Let me remind you, however, that the issue of the Strojans, which was discussed in the year 2007 is, in fact, critical to three problems, three segments. First, the problem of leaving, secondly, the problem of control in Postojna, and the problem of preventing return. I didn't see it in the report, or I didn't see the problem of leaving Ambrus, like one of my forerunners who said, "forced eviction." No, gentlemen. No forced eviction, but protecting people's lives. That's all it was about. And a voluntary departure from an illegal residence that was tolerated by the state for 10 years. That's why I'm glad you didn't fall in and trouble the Strojan family leaving Ambrus. Unfortunately, you are problematic about the issue of control in the Permanent and so-called enabling return to Ambrus. Here I can't agree with you, even, somewhere I've noticed that you're writing about that in Postojna it was possibly about using special methods and means. Of course, in uniform, standing a police officer outside the barracks where the Strojans were staying does not mean a particular method and means, not a disguised investigation measure, but means protection. And nothing else. The return to Ambrus is also justified in Article 39 of the Police Act, which makes it very clear that police powers are written. For me, therefore, there is no problem in Postojna, nor in Ambrus, in the event of the return of these people to Ambrus and the inability of the police who acted, in my opinion, under Article 39 of the Police Act. I wonder the other way around. We have to ask ourselves the exact opposite and say: What would happen if you were in the Permanent Family of Strojan; God forbid you would; hurt someone, kill someone or anything? What would happen if the Strojans came back to Ambrus and there were bodily injuries, the dead or anything in the struggle with the inhabitants? At that time, the interpretation of the Interior Minister would probably be justified and the Ombudsman’s criticism would then be extremely justified. On my part, the police on this segment deserve to be commended. He would be critical of the left-hand political-journalist scene that brought Strojan's problem to the world and, of course, warnings written in Ljubljana were coming from the world. At the same time as the Strujan problem erupted in Slovenia, the problem was similar in the vicinity of Rome. There has been, I think, a serious attack on the wife of one of the high politicians in Italy. And what did the Italian police do? She broke the illegal settlement with bulldozers. It did not provide any resettlements and similar matters as had happened in Slovenia. And Europe did not report on this because, of course, there were no reactions from such politically motivated countries in Italy. Of course, I also disagree with your concerns about the standards of protection of asylum seekers, I am talking about the Law on International Protection. Highering these standards means a desirable island within Slovenia. And the Constitutional Court, I read earlier, by decision, I think it has already rejected one constitutional opinion from this area. That's how I'd be careful here. I also very much agree with your findings on denationalisation procedures, page 120-121, you write about it. It is unacceptable that these issues are not resolved after so many years. However, I note, of course, the great progress made in this area in the mandate of the previous government. Today, according to my information, there are 2% of the pending cases. I think I have the right information. The current government has the ideal opportunity to complete this in 2010 or at least in 2010. I will not touch on the deleted issue, even though this is my intention, because colleague Eva Irgle spoke very precisely about it and I share her opinion. But I would point to another segment, these are the material victims of World War II, which are also an unresolved problem, which will also have to, according to a law that will once be passed, file applications and prove that they were materially injured, not just as erased, who receive a gift and compensation, or so it should have been. Of course, I expect, we made this law in the previous term, put this law together, it got a little stuck in money. As far as I know the coalition agreements, this is also envisaged there, and, of course, I look forward to this law and look forward to the beginning of the resolution of things in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. With the surrender of the conductor in the previous term, when Mrs Zdenka took over this mandate, she also had full support from the Slovenian National Party. We expected more than today we can see it's done. The 13th regular report of the Ombudsman is incomplete, biased and, above all, non-Slovenian for us. Why? It does not express the Slovenian problems, the real problems faced by citizens and citizens, and the social hardships which have unfortunately been experienced from day to day by a large number of citizens and citizens. The guilt caused by the privileges of individuals is not even mentioned by Mrs Zdenka in her report. I think of those injustices when we allowed some in the National Assembly to become enormously rich and to throw a crowd of people on the road who today do not even have the basic means of survival. In our opinion, the social situation of citizens and citizens is neglected in this report. And if the Constitution states that we are a social state, we cannot say that this is a real fact, for even a guardian does not want to touch this issue. Children who are often abused either physically or sexually are in fact almost taboo themes for this office. Patients who do not have the protection of the office know, for example, that last case, which ended in death, parents do not even get relevant information. Looks like the guardian's not interested at all. Even apparatus purchased with taxpayers’ money, which is found in a private infirmary, disappears in health care. That is why, of course, we have the condition we have. If you have money, you can be in the right turn in those areas where public and, of course, private activities in health care are managed. According to your homework, if you're going to do an ultrasound investigation, not to talk about another operation, you have to cut into your pocket first, if you want to do it immediately, or you'll wait a few months. But that's not what our guardian's interested in again. She's not even here today. I don't know, I'd believe she went to lunch, but it's not right for her to be away for over an hour because we're considering her report. Poverty and the related social distress of individuals in this report are not covered at all. But they've been erased. That's right. And the Strojans, then the Gypsies. And if I look at what it says in the newspaper: The gypsy plague in the White landscape, without law, religion and morality, because of the gypsy interference in the forest forests are disappearing, the gypsy banditry. This newspaper was published in 1936. The problem is the same today. Yes, it's an hate speech for Mr. Aurelius Yuri. But this is the Slovenian newspaper that published it. That was published. When we address these topics that are not identified in the report, of course the report will also receive positive support from the Slovenian National Party. I'd like to draw attention to something else that's not in this report. The injustices of the foreigners, the Slovenians who live beyond the borders, when they are placed before they are actually caught by fascism very directly and very directly. That's a fact. Even President Napolitano, when he had a hate speech here, but he did have a hate speech, and the Office for the Protection of Human Rights did not even react. I could talk about what Mr President of Italy said about Slovenians at the time, but I will not. But it didn't matter to this office. And I believe the Italian fascism of this office is of no interest either. We also have unsolved war killings by the Italian fascist authorities in a half-lived history that have never been convicted, and this is not an interest of the office, even though a criminal indictment has been filed by Slovenia for still living war criminals in Italy, and we know that war crimes never get old. I want answers to these questions. Above all, I would like to hear why Mrs Zdenka gives priority to administrative and technical conditions for work, to financial material needs in this report, why what I have just said is not, and why we still allow the injustices that are heard many times, to be repeated again in the same or even in an escalative sense, and why the law enforcement authorities do nothing in this area, nor the competent authorities, and even less the government. If we are to view what the facts warn us, then we do not need to have such an office. What is in the report is just a very, very superficial view of the problem in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you. The word has been given to you, sir. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u32	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u33	Procedurally you have a proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u34	I would urge you, Mr Vice President, to intervene appropriately in the occurrence of an enemy speech. Here was used several times a word that has the value of insults in general, while some ethnic group has a name that we all use, namely Roma. And I ask you, in accordance with your powers, to respond properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Friend, I don't understand why you're raising your hand. There are no replicas on the procedural proposal. Mr. Kres, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished co-workers of the guardian, respected colleague and colleague! I don't mind fixing the injustices for the so-called deleted and also solving the Roma problem. Today we are talking about the Gypsies or the Roma. You know, even with us, these people are talking, and I'm going to ask them once, which word suits them better, because we have to be respectful to each other because they all live their traditions and respect their differences. But today I will use the word Roma. Look, with all these concerns, I'm worried that we're finally not talking honestly about the correction of injustices to people who in the past have experienced injustices on these soils before today, as these injustices we're talking about, I'm talking about war injuries. In the case of so-called deleted, the status should be settled, but both ourselves and our party consistently advocates that this should be regulated within the framework of the constitutional law and the case-by-case case. When, perhaps a year ago, two people watched one TV example of a woman I could say and saw that she had not been taught or had no knowledge of all of this, because you know that in Slovenia we also know a lot of things too much to obirocratize, she did not file certain papers to regulate her status. I'm sure this worker fought for her everyday life, and she didn't know she was gonna get into the kind of trouble she went through. And this worker is certainly not comparable to some, but we can be sure that they have also speculated. As a result, I would point out that this should be approached from the case to the case. But it is also true that this country does not have enough money to pay all these things in the amounts discussed. It can also be speculative. It is therefore necessary to discuss this and to find a certain measure, one specific censorship, where this can be done. I've also talked to the people I've told you about, they're talking about war casualties. I must tell you that when I met them, there was not so much a question of this financial correction, but, above all, a matter of satisfaction. Many say that during these years they have lived or felt like second-rate citizens. And if, at the outset, our Lady Guardian spoke about humanity, I fully support it in that, yes, indeed, we need humanity, and when we put ourselves on that level, we will also be able to resolve these things, I think, so that it will be right for everyone, because we all deserve respect. There was also talk of a mobile phone. It's really mobile. I don't know, we're gonna have to start school here. It is necessary to tell everyone who works, whether we are entrepreneurs or whatever, if we want to have satisfactory associates, we must be respectful of them, human, without using a variety of mobile phones, and so the result and productivity will be significantly better than it is, because by destroying them you do not want your companies, your jobs and the like. The greatest guarantee for as little human rights violations as possible - because I strongly doubt that we will have an ideal situation, that there will never be any violations, and that is why we need this institution to see this and that it solves these matters and leads us in the right direction, especially this humanity. Without division, let it be political, status, national, religious, racial, and so on. We just need to know that we are all people, living in this space and sharing or sharing as good as bad. We are a country to be respected, we are a country in which we care for democracy, we can say that we have achieved success. Let's keep this, let's not make it worse, let's move on to a better and even better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye to all of you! Especially to the guardians and her coworkers! Immediately in the beginning, sincere commendation and thanks for the comprehensive, correct report, which included more than 30 people in addition to the guardian and her deputies. And that seems important and precious to me. Human rights are a broad and important topic. In times in which we now live, when pressure, bad feelings, uncertainty about the future is great, it is especially important. That is why, of course, in times, no matter how they are and they will not be forgotten, as my predecessor has said, that we are all, above all, and that we remain, above all, people. The report is long and extensive and wide. I'm sure you can't talk about all the problems. It needs to be looked back and above all forward. Surely, everyone deserves a name, a surname, a right to a grave, and that this title also entitles his family. We should simply not discuss and debate this at all anymore, but we must do so to him. Then, of course, one of the basic things is that if we want to settle an area in this country and we have had problems, the complications are followed by a constitutional decision. There is nothing to discuss about constitutional decisions, there is nothing to Parliament, but it must be taken as a fact and done. Now, perhaps some substantive comments. I have chosen from this material one of the important areas. The nanny gave him quite a bit of attention. And I'd like to give him a little more emphasis. This is, of course, the area of deaf, deaf, even blind, visually impaired, and generally handicapped people. As regards the problem of deaf and deaf people, it should be recalled that persons with hearing loss above 95% should be recognised for complete physical impairment and disability, so it is certainly also in place to provide basic disability for all categories of persons with disabilities. Furthermore, it is important to overcome communication barriers. We will no doubt all agree that freedom of expression, acceptance of information in the mother tongue of the deaf must be ensured. This is about Slovenian sign languages and accessibility to all forms of communication on the basis of equal opportunities. It is time to ask ourselves whether we can apply this in practice. This is about accessibility to all forms of education. Whether we provide assistants in the universities of learning, recorders, the use of all possible technological means, the integration of visual information in all areas faced by persons who are in communication. If we ask ourselves about this content, then we can certainly say that we have not done everything yet and that we still have much work to do in this area - all of us, especially Members. We're still in technical aids. We are talking about how or are not equipped with patriots, where we can still go into space, but deaf people are the only category of disabled people in our country who do not have recognised technical devices in existing legislation. I therefore, of course, reiterate and propose that this right be recognised to them. For the deaf - personal computer, webcam, deaf-blind monitors, light indicators on the phone, alarm bells, baby-cry for the deaf mother to monitor the crying of her baby, including custom mobile phones, for the deaf induction loop in all public spaces, system order, when building technical facilities, there is no usable permit if this is not ensured. I must say, in the congregation from which I come, we built a cultural center because the designers did not warn us about all these things in the initial stages. Then also light indicators, portable induction loops and what I mentioned at the beginning, even for deaf mothers to have communication with the baby. Then focus and reconsider how to arrange the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Rehabilitation, which performs many important and useful tasks but does not include deaf and disabled persons from this area. We still have a lot of work to do in this area. Why? Because 10% of the Slovenian population is deaf and deaf. And that's a big and important number. What I think is important to me is that I've borrowed the idea that the country is a good fairy to some and a bad stepmother to some. To verify the system of social rights and that when we speak to the rights, we also place responsibilities alongside the rights. Those who exploit a number of social rights should also be reminded of their duties, especially those of young people, for whom I must say that some think rather strangely. As mayor, I encounter cases where someone, for example, gets unemployment allowance, gets a valid document for his child, has a free kindergarten, and then at an interview, when he tells me that he has complained to the Ombudsman because he doesn't get a free community apartment yet, he realizes that his income is higher than that of a worker in Pek, Kableks who blames him for it because he doesn't go and doesn't want to go to work. When you get a man like that into some more emotional debate, they say, "Listen, mayor, if you're a little bit in time, if I take the job, I'll have less than I have now." This is also a serious problem that needs to be put aside by rights, including the duty of young people to work, work and take care of their future. As far as social rights are concerned. I think that we have quite a few of them in this country, never missing, and more of them need to be shared, especially in order to properly divide them, that those who really live hard are handicapped, affected, must get more. With those rights and, above all, the financial resources we give them as a country, they cannot survive, they are too few. Of course, on the other hand, there are those we make fun of to have free kindergartens, and then they drive children with Mercedes into kindergartens. That should be arranged, too. However, I must say - to conclude - that there are thoughts and efforts, and above all the field contacts between the guardians, the co-workers, a case-by-case review, a discussion in the right direction, which I will continue to support as a Member and a parliamentary group. However, I must say that I am also pleased that I am a member of the party that has placed human rights in the programming context, that we have the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, interestingly, the complaints of our citizens and citizens in these areas, first of all work, family, social affairs, secondly, a very important area of justice, and then in the third and fourth areas of internal affairs. I just wish that there would be cases and such behaviours as the conduct of our Minister in the case of a famous novel on chafuri, more such action in practice, to say that the right to freedom of expression and speech is one of the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Friend has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u40	Since I have been marked as an extension of the hate speech, I would like to say that you are obliged to warn the Member that this is not true, of course. Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, Mr Franco Juri, Gypsy is a member of the people from India who moved to Europe, usually without a permanent residence. They say gypsies steal children, ogre gypsies, gypsies, black as gypsies, lies like gypsies. It's a copy. Rom is a preparation made of wood or other material that surrounds the painting or other objects: a frame, making roms, to put the image in a frame. A copy of the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. I was talking about the gypsies that were recorded in the paper at the time. This was 1936, in the magazine Morning, at Unit 136, when a journalist at the time wrote about the gypsy plague in the White Land, how they endanger health, how they condensate forests, how they operate without law, religion and morality, and, of course, what the authorities of that time would do with them. It's a newspaper from that time, and I don't know what I broke. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u41	Mr. Friend, this isn't exactly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u42	It's a speech. [[...]] One more thing when I'm talking to you. I think that gypsy children are also worthy of greater respect without being forced into sexual abuse at the age of 13, to be reported as being forced to beg because we know what the gypsies were doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u43	All right, Mr. Friend. We are at the point of the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u44	And I would ask you to warn Mr Aurelius, Frank Yuri, because there are so many here in the National Assembly that I don't even know who he is, that it's not what he said. [[..]] Let him have a look. Here you go, Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Presidents of the Ombudsman, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to agree with that last part of my predecessor Borut Saiovic, his debate on rights and obligations in the context of social security. It is necessary for those who need assistance and do not allow the use of this instrument. But this is what is happening today. Therefore, the only correct response to this is to have more competence from this area to the local level. At local level, work is, as it were, on the ground where people know themselves significantly better than at national level, it will be easier to implement such legislation in favour of those who need help and, of course, to the detriment of those who exploit it. So much for the preparation of the next legislation to be drawn up in this area. With regard to the report of the Ombudsman and her co-workers, I would like to stop at some specific points. You wrote that the failure to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions also reduces the authority of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry. I agree with you. The reduction of the authority of the Court of Auditors and also of the Commission to prevent corruption, but part of this reduction of authority in certain institutions, is also at their expense because some institutions are dealing with minorities but are not dealing with major problems. And that's why they're losing it. The problem with the National Assembly has long been that it does not solve legislation in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But the question is, why not? Maybe there's a political web in the back, along with certain lobbying. Many times bad legislation has been adopted. Let us recall in 1994 the amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, allowing individuals who were convicted of not staying for one minute but who stole half of the state's property. Project Elan is where he is today, which we've been alerting him to since then. I am afraid that the lobbies are behind this, that there is no change in this legislation to which the Constitutional Court refers, and that this legislation has also been written with the help of these lobbies. Next, what you point out is the problem with the intervention of employers in personal data and the privacy of employees. In this area, workers' rights are increasingly violated from day to day and are in a significantly poorer position. You're also talking about the week of the inspection services. That's true, and the result of the absence of inspection services is also here. Once again, there is no responsibility, both at the top of the inspection services themselves and beyond. It's easy to do something, do a lot of records, do a lot of paperwork, do inspections in offices. Please, this isn't serious! Judicial backlogs. I agree that a major problem is primarily the second-degree courts, where they abolish decisions of first-degree courts rather than solve them. I imagine the Second Instance Court will solve if it is a complaint, but not if it cancels the first stage and returns. The judges in these higher courts obviously cannot work. Disengagement of police action. This raises the question whether the police have sufficient instruments for action or not. The tragic murder in front of the children, the mother is in the Great Sunday, which has happened recently, of course it warns. Working relationships. No payments. More. Employers require workers to take a leave of absence, so-called leave, so that they can get the hours in. Well, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Where's the work of the inspection services? There are a number of things that you have pointed out, and I fear there will be more to this breach in the future, especially because some institutions are not working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Honourable Minister and Honourable Lady Guardian of Human Rights with Fellow Workers! Today's topic is extremely important and I therefore regret that there are no more ministers in the ministerial assembly, at least those to whom this topic is addressed. I think that a lot of things could be heard and taken into account in their work. The report, and also the debate, I think it leads to an improvement in the protection of human rights. In my debate, I will focus on health, because health is also one of the important things. The most obvious sentence I saw in the Ombudsman's report was "that in 2007 there were many issues in public about the exercise and violation of health insurance and healthcare rights, but this has not been shown in the increase in the number of such initiatives". The explanation that you state that patients themselves here know how to enforce these possible infringements. Maybe that's true, but I don't think that's true. I am more convinced that there was a lot of populism in the public, a lot of paving, because health care is a sensitive topic, and the media grabbed it and made a story out of it. And that was mainly in the previous term. This, I am sure, will be significantly less in this mandate. This was used for political purposes or purposes. Let me give you an example. I think that the same person in a year ago, who was very critical of how everything in the field of rheumatology or treatment in Slovenia is bad enough that patients have no opportunity, no means of treatment, mainly a catastrophic situation. But a week or 14 days ago, the same gentleman, chairman of rheumatology at UKC Ljubljana, claimed that in Slovenia we have all the drugs available for treatment in the field of rheumatology and that also by the insurance company, the treatment can be co-financed or financed in the amount of EUR 13,000 per year. Praiseworthy, indeed, but the same thing was a year ago. Typical evidence that a variety of topics have been used for different purposes, which is to the detriment of our patients, which is not good. I am pleased that you have touched on two important laws in your report, either at the time of the report or in the year when this report was also considered, these two laws have not yet been examined and have been in the process of at least the Patients' Rights Act. If you remember, you've been active enough here, it's been the basic thought of this law, or it's mainly the aim of regulating legislation that will benefit our patients. That was the primary goal. And despite the fact that it was truly in our patients' best interests, we were constantly received by the then opposition and today's coalition, many critics, floods, and you were also implicated in this story, particularly with regard to the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute. That is why I can say again that at the time, as well as in the report, you have rightly advocated that in Slovenia we do not need the Institute of the Ombudsman's rights, because the solutions introduced by law are sufficiently simple, sufficiently effective to determine possible irregularities. In the event that it is not as it is, you and your colleagues are certainly competent enough to warn about these things. The same was true of the Law on Mental Health, a law that should be needed in Slovenia at least ten years ago. It has been written for a long time, much has been coordinated and thank God that the political will of the previous coalition and of the minister has been sufficient, that we have also adopted this law. And most grateful are all the family members and all those suffering from mental illness. Now I'd touch the waiting times. You provide only one example for a hospital that, by the way, ordered more people than the insurance company had paid-up programs. True, this is re-enactment evidence that waiting periods are mainly due to a lack of funds. The organisation would also be able to handle a lot of things here, but the key problem is still resources and further, or in the future, there will be a need to look for solutions here so that the insurance company will really provide, in particular, those health providers with sufficient resources to service patients' needs, because I think that hospital, which had such a rush of docents, probably also had a high level of quality. And just one last comment, where you find that we have long-term procedures by the medical commissions. True, I also face citizens and citizens who confess these problems to me in my office. This is present and, in your conclusion, you state that this is a procedure which is legally well regulated, but in practice this regime is not taken into account. I think that this is a problem that needs to be resolved systematically and here I would appeal to you that you might try in the next report or through your work to somehow indicate how to do this, because if the legislation is regulated, it is obvious that there are other methods or some communication with the public through the media that those who decide on these matters will be members of the commission, doctors, who may have a little more personal responsibility at the time, to realize that they are dependent on the fate of many people, that they will also be able to use it in practice for the benefit of our patients. Thus, this conclusion is in itself true, but it will probably be necessary to continue looking for ways to do so in practice. I'd finish up here myself. Given that you have not paid so much attention to the health sector, I also conclude that the matter in Slovenia is at a high level. This does not mean that it is arranged that we can not improve much more on this, but however I think we can be happy to have health care, which is so sensitive in Slovenia, arranged, by continuing to improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u50	Dear Mr Vice President, all present! Nice greetings for me, too! The large-scale report presented by the Ombudsman provides good points for discussion in many subjects, but I would like to limit myself to the topic that is somehow closest to me, and actually add something to the conclusions contained in her report. These are issues of poverty and social exclusion. To begin with, I fully agree with the findings of the Ombudsman or her co-workers at these points. All claims made in this report are correct. And to begin at the very beginning, and to link this to conclusions or recommendations, I would first refer to the calculation of the minimum income or so-called, in pronouns, of the official threshold of poverty. We know that there is €222 for one person and now €511 for four members of the family. Is that enough, or is that too little? The fact is that the calculation of the minimum income was based on the structure of the minimum costs for the short term end of the previous millennium. Since then, this foundation has been valorized. In short, I agree with all those who claim that it is necessary to re-check the calculation of the minimum income, to carry out expert analyses and to determine to what extent this threshold, the official threshold of poverty or the minimum income, still corresponds to the current situation. We could say that the living conditions of those who are recipients of monetary social assistance are in fact quite acute, especially if we are counting on many beneficiaries to accumulate forms of social exclusion that are not only linked to income or unemployment, to low education, but also to poor housing conditions, to poor health conditions, not to mention other characteristics. The fact is that it was paid in September last year, there are data, 37.772 state social assistance and 2.76% of people received this form of assistance. However, I would also point out, by referring to my previous speakers, that we cannot actually talk about the uniform structure of the poor. Even among the poor there are many categories, which I think the guardian is very well aware of. If we leave behind those who abuse aid systems that undoubtedly exist, where conditions for obtaining a way and aid, of course, also sanctions, are to be strengthened, research shows that they are not as terrible as they would like to show. I myself was the author of one of these studies, so I would like to point out in particular the two other categories mentioned in the report. This is a category of invisible poor or poor people who do not have financial social assistance in the statistics of recipients and would be among the beneficiaries by all characteristics. Why don't they come to this? Even because of the misunderstanding of official services, as the report only warns. There are also reasons for not knowing the terrain, functional illiteracy, etc. In short, I think that this country should do much more, much more, in connection with those humanitarian organisations that know the terrain very well in order to reach every single individual or family living in such conditions. In fact, many times we are warned by the grounders that they find people living in unworthy conditions. This makes it impossible for a civilised society, or even that country that's gibberishing with the mark that it's social to act. Another important category to which the report draws attention is the category of poor employees or those located somewhere at the border of eligibility for financial social assistance. Again, from research, I can say that this category is growing strongly, that their social situation is actually much worse than those receiving financial social assistance and that in solving this problem, it is said, in addition to recalculating the minimum income, they should also be cut down by other measures. These are measures related to the so-called free assessment, which is also said to have the right of professional workers to a certain extent when it comes to the minimum threshold of minimum income, but to cut and intervene and not only with single or temporary cash assistance, because these are actually linked only to current social assistance, but in some continuous way. On the other hand, of course, it would also be worth thinking about some sort of sliding scale to determine minimum income, where, of course, a higher threshold could also be taken into account only if they are themselves, I will say, socially disadvantaged people are very active in the search or in the resolution of their position or are even employed. I would also warn you of a very worrying fact, indeed, unemployment is one of the main reasons why people are socially at risk, but more and more are those who, due to low incomes and possibly other reasons such as the large number of family members, single-parent families, etc., fall under this threshold of minimum income. Of course, we should think very, very much about this when we are looking for solutions to these problems. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of housing costs. I agree, I fully agree with the Ombudsman that housing costs are an ever-increasing problem for those who live on or below the poverty line. The estimates show that these costs amount to as much as a quarter of the income of these families, and therefore it would actually be necessary to go in the direction of providing or re-checking the rent subsidy threshold or, on the other hand, taking into account the cost of housing loans, as this population also has housing loans. Finally, let me also touch on the problem of solving problems. Of course, prevention or preventive measures are those who are always welcome and here I also support conclusions, but I would also point out that, however, active social policies or the active search for a way out of the current situation should be given greater attention. And you know, the solution is not only on the one hand money social assistance, but on the other hand employment in a highly competitive labour market, there are a whole bunch of opportunities that do not yet exist that need to be developed, which also need to be subsidised. I am talking about forms of social entrepreneurship that could involve those who, for objective or subjective reasons, do not have the opportunity to compete in the normal labour market. However, this solution, I will say, in terms of their social security, is better in terms of their human dignity than simply passiveising recipients of monetary social assistance. In short, I expect, because I know that the Government is preparing changes in legislation in this area, so that one part of these suggestions or guidance will also be taken into account in the drafting of new legislation, because it seems to me that sometimes we are too eager to get into some generalities, in some common sense, on the basis of some of the cases that we are facing, and not enough of the actual scientific or research evidence that is also related to solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Ombudsman, fellow Members of Parliament and colleague. When I read this report, I didn't think it would be necessary to add anything, because I thought it was convincing the convinced. Today, when I listen to some fellow Members, I see that the debate has become really interesting, and I thank you for the highlights that you have offered us with this text, which is actually a reflection of some reality that we all have in our daily lives, in relations with our constituents and voters, with citizens and citizens who tell us what is actually going on in a democratic and human rights country as Slovenia is. If we come from the Constitution and our laws, not all laws, we can quickly find out that we are a country that has exemplaryly implemented certain fundamental provisions of all international conventions, instruments that guarantee the protection and development of human rights. What I miss, not only today, when I have listened to the report, but also in previous mandates, is the sensitivity of the State, other institutions to the role of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. Sometimes I feel like some politicians, and some of my fellow Members do not understand the importance of this institution. And that they are not particularly aware of the independence and competences they have. I have also seen this in the report, and I agree with the conclusion that it is unfortunate that there is a lack of obedience and a lack of understanding towards those bodies of social control that are intended to help all citizens to ensure and preserve the rights that go beyond our Constitution. And with the Ombudsman there are also some other bodies, such as the Anti-Corruption Commission or the Court of Auditors, I think they are also listed in your text. And I agree, in fact, we have a feeling that things are stopping somewhere. Where the State should actually help, in order to ensure that the findings, the assessments, which are not intended for themselves, but the findings and assessments, which are essentially to affect the functioning of the State, remain somewhere in the middle of the way and are not being implemented. It was even more dramatic to warn the Ombudsman herself that the State did not comply with the basic decisions of the Constitutional Court. Look at the case deleted, but it is not the only case today, we are facing a debate that is very infertile and is a vicious circle, a rather perverse vicious circle, because we have not yet been able to realize something that has been set up years ago as the constitutional duty of the government, the ministries that care about it, the states. Today we are discussing again a problem that we are not only creating, but we are replicating it with disrespect for the Constitution or constitutional decisions. There has been a lot of talk about deleted, but it will not be too much if we repeat what Secretary of State Klemenčič recently made very clear. There's a lot of speculation, and there's a lot of hate speech about eraseds. The key problem we all know, of course everyone then manipulates it, according to their political preferences and tries to use it in the political space as a means of gaining points before every election campaign, but the fact is that there are many people who have not been granted some fundamental, fundamental rights and most of those people are not ex-military, officers, etc. Statistics are very clear, most of these people are civilians who are still waiting for the end. This is a sad, shameful and I will quote and support this guardian's assessment of the shameful story that is still taking place despite all the warnings in Slovenia outside Slovenia. Warnings coming from institutions that care about quality and a high level of human rights in us and in Europe. Taking care of children's rights seems to me to be one of the key chapters. Here it is necessary to acknowledge Dr. Zdenki Chebašek Travnik that she is appropriately paying attention to this issue. I, too, have been repeatedly warned as a Member of injustices that occur mainly to weak groups, and we, of course, consider children among them. Look what's going on with those kids who are in a conflict between parents. We do not yet have legislation to protect the dignity of these children. Sometimes they become the object of a dispute, sometimes they find themselves in this interegnum, in this limbo between two cots of adults. And it is likely that all that the Ombudsman recommends should be taken into account and appropriate legislation should be drafted as soon as possible. I also like the fact that the report raises the issue of unrecognized minorities. The fact is that Slovenia is very much proud of the example of the constitutional rights enjoyed by some national communities, two, and one ethnic community, which also has its own article in the Constitution, are Roma, while we, as each country, European, are becoming a society of multiculturalism, the presence of various other social and cultural groups. In addition, minorities that are not, are not recognised, but exist. The German minority is mentioned, we all know the story of the Kočevars, we know the question of these, otherwise very small groups, who are trying to preserve their cultural elements, their cultural identities, and the country here is quite absent. We are also talking about other former Yugoslav national minorities that are organised culturally, but whose paths to get to know them a little bit more and also to evaluate them better are quite closed. So when we boast by example about the ideality of our constitutional and legal practice to minorities, it is difficult to boast about those issues that do not concern minorities that have been recognised under international agreements. We don't hope to go any further, we don't hope to become an open society? It is therefore good to note this also from the Ombudsman’s report. It is also stated that the Asylum Law is bad, and I agree. This has been pointed out by many NGOs to the principle of Amnesty International. Not only has this been pointed out by international organisations, even the United Nations Human Rights Council. We have received a lot of warnings, and yet we have prepared and adopted a bad asylum law, which reduces the standards that have already been provided for us, and in doing so we have in a perverse way referred to the approximation of European standards. You know, Europe is really democratic, but on some issues we've been longer than Europe, like protecting minorities, and also asylum policy. But then we used the European factor very instrumentally and in a very perverse way to reduce the already achieved level of these rights. I hope and expect, and I am sure that in this mandate, this government will remedy these things in this context, even though they are not part of the narrower subject of this debate. I have recently drawn attention to a question that concerns us indirectly and has an international dimension, a serious violation of human rights, sometimes also on behalf of democracy that has occurred in recent years and is still happening, unfortunately, by the world's greatest and most democratic power. Why I'm saying it's our business, and maybe it's not bad to point that out. The closing of Guantanamo is also the first step, the first excellent decision of the new President of the United States and it is said that some countries would help resolve the complex issue of the status of these prisoners. You know that some countries have already offered assistance and have also mentioned the willingness to accept some of these prisoners as part of asylum. Of course, it is a very complex question, but I believe that those countries, and among other things, Slovenia, which have been so determined, have unreservedly supported George Bush's policy and have never said one word against such camps, against torture, against such camps, against torture, against the actions of the CIA across Europe, against the illegal actions of the CIA, those countries that have signed the Villan Declaration must today be the first to take full responsibility for the violations of human rights arising from the heading of the war on terrorism. Therefore, it would not be bad for us to think in the context of improving our conditions, the criteria for asylum policy, including the possibility to engage with democratic European countries that have already offered this: Spain, Portugal, Germany, Switzerland. In order for Slovenia to finally come forward and prove itself ready to contribute not only to its national but also to the global, international process for the recovery of these grave violations and injustices. Also interesting is the chapter in which the Ombudsman assesses violations of human rights in the economy, bullying, mobbing. I'd add a few more cases, I don't know if they've even reached the guardian, they were hoping to clear up the issue of stalking, using detectives, private agencies to chase bullied workers through normal, legal channels. That's what's going on in Cyprus. I think it's the highest concentration of these kinds of phenomena. But what happens? What happens is what the guardian points out is that the victims don't have money for good lawyers. Lawyers and those who rule and who can afford human rights violations use the best lawyers, those who then also reward, pay and win a shameful battle in court. And what happens? People who were fired for absence or absent because of medical or other problems do not care why, it happened to them that detectives were being followed, that they were interfering with their personal lives, and not just the workers, but also the family members. There are records, I've seen them, records that say that some director has allowed himself to hire a detective, and this one has been following his sister, mother, daughter of a worker or a worker, and has been writing down nicely what they've been doing, where they've been, what time they've been. Listen. Is that constitutional or is that legal? It's a shame. And even more embarrassing, you know what it is that these same perpetrators of such violations won in court. And there's a lot of cases like this. Therefore, I do not think that it is enough to rely solely on our legal country, which is often not, but it is necessary to listen to precisely such institutions as the Ombudsman. As far as my understanding is concerned, the village would be even more radical than Mrs Chebašek Travnik, but I believe that she in the role she has, is obliged to maintain some form, some form of dialogue which, in my view, is exemplary and goes on to appreciate a little bit more than ever. There used to be talk of hate speech. Member Friend also taught me the meaning of dictionaries. As a member of one of the well-standing minorities in Slovenia, I was addressed with the word Lah. The Italians are Lahi. You know, if you're going to the dictionary now, it's probably not an insult. It is simply the human term used, which has been used, always in tradition for a particular nation, as the word Gypsies was used in folk talk. It's true, but in context. In the circumstances as used by Mr Friend and other colleagues from his client, we have been given hostile connotation. The connotation of "hate speech," the connotation of the hate speech. I will not defend any ethnic community or nation here. In all nations. In all ethnic groups we find such and different ones, we find positives and negatives. Where social distress is greater, there is more chance that there will be more negative reactions, reactions and more social turbulence. This is probably the case with Roma, and this is why I have recently proposed as a member of the Committee or of the Commission for Nationality in the National Assembly that, however, we should find the right framework within this Parliament in order to listen to these unheard minorities as well. They don't have an accomplice in the National Assembly. Constitutionally recognized nationalities have this option, and it is right. Thank God we have such an orderly system. But what about other minorities? Who should they turn to? They have the Nationality Office, and that's the only thing that's scientifically, scientifically speaking, is also dealing with their problems. I have reviewed a recent large study on the minority issue of Slovenia. This study has never been published. It was commissioned by the government, and after they prepared it and examined it in the government, they probably hid it in a drawer. Because there were scientific approaches and also suggestions on how to resolve certain issues. I think the financial society is afraid of these issues, we're afraid. We fear our own citizens, because unlike what happened in Italy, where such an unloved event did not take place at the expense of a high policy, but unfortunately the event affected the wife of an official, namely a family member, an event involving a Romanian citizen who came from this black illegal settlement on the edge of the city. In fact, there has been severe repression. Interestingly, the Roma themselves reported him to the police at the time. They punished him themselves because they knew what was going to happen and what happened. There was a time of repression, and it's not true that there were no echoes. There have been a lot of protests in Europe over this event, because there has been some systematic solution, in phrasing, of the Roma issue, but of the immigrant Roma who have been smuggled in. When we talk about our Roma, we talk about our own citizens. And that's still a difference. There's been more of a visa problem for immigrants. This also happens in Lampedusa to African immigrants. Italy, unfortunately, is not an exemplary country in this regard. And we don't have to follow Italian standards. We don't just have the right, we have the chance to fix these old ones better. Because we're both on strike like some other countries. And our asylum, and our attitude towards minorities, is a significantly lower risk than in some other large countries, which are essentially the goal, the destination of all possible migration flows. From this point of view, I think we can handle this a little better. I'll stop at that. I would like to thank you once again for your engagement, efforts and professional approach to these very delicate issues. Always count, count on our openness, because our parliamentary group will always, in particular, be open to these issues and also operationally, actively willing to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, you have a chance of replicating.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I was mentioned. Dear Mr. Franz Yuri, let me answer or ask him. Who are you, revered Franco, to defend me from using the word written in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language? Speaking of gypsies, even when we were adopting a Romani marriage, my colleagues will remember that day at the State Dinner Assembly, a gypsy gobble. There's something else I'd like to tell you. There was no hate speech. I read what was written in the Slovenian newspaper in 1936 when the journalist spoke of the gypsy plague in the White landscape and that's all I was quoting and the problems are exactly the same today and are exactly the same to those then. The fact is, you're always accusing someone, I don't know if that's a hobby of yours, really? I don't know why you're actually defending individuals here in the National Assembly to use the words written in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. There's something else I'd like to tell you, dear colleague, while I speak. Slovenians in Italy do not even have the right to promote them if we compare them with the rights of Italians living in Slovenia. Give one word for them. I don't even believe that you could be a member of the Italian minority because it's already been publicized, but if so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u55	Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u56	That's how it's gonna be. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u58	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! If we ask ourselves what is the purpose of the annual hearing of the Ombudsman's Report in the National Assembly, then at least I see the purpose in that, through the recommendations being addressed and adopted by the National Assembly, we somehow influence the realization of what is not well-ordered in the individual segments of our society. And if we look a few years ago, we can see that a number of the bodies concerned by these recommendations, especially the government and individual ministries in recent years, have implemented a number of those things that have proved to be poorly or poorly regulated. If I limit myself to one area that appears every year and that somehow we are lagging in the same place and there is no progress, this is an area of inefficiency of the judicial system, which could certainly be put at the forefront, we can see that this inefficiency is not only a problem because of the violation of Article 23 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to a trial within a reasonable time, but that there is a lack of confidence in the rule of law, but more about it in the following. However, it is one of the areas that has been emerging in recent years, which we have not recorded in this way in the past, is the area of environmental issues or issues related to a healthy environment. There is no doubt that there is a growing awareness of individuals in this area, as well as of the shortcomings that are being recorded in individual environments. And we will undoubtedly be witnessing an increase in issues in this area in the coming years. Perhaps not so much because legislation and activities would be weak, but because of these challenges in the face of the challenges facing us in the field of climate change, in the field of energy and in all other areas related to environmental issues, we will increasingly be confronted. For this reason, I think that the main challenges are in fact waiting for us to properly address these issues, both at the level of individual ministries and at the level of the society as a whole and of the National Assembly. We will probably have to come to this realization that a healthy living environment is just the value, one of the fundamental values from which many other values are derived, and that nothing helps us only to take a declaratory stand for this area, but in this area we must act actively, proactively, with solutions that we must also take at the level of the National Assembly. And one of the things that I personally disagree with in the report is that, at the stage of the adoption of the planned acts, it is necessary to open up even more to the general public. I don't think there's a problem here. These procedures are open, we know the procedure of acceptance, public disclosure, public opinion testing and so on, taking these opinions into account. I think there's trouble somewhere else. The problem is that regardless of the high standards we have in our country, the rules of action when there is a conflict of interest are strange. And many times, perhaps even those who are supposed to advocate environmental protection and who act in the interest of environmental protection do not realize that with inadequate action, too much commitment to things that are not as valuable as they seem at first sight, they create open doors in other segments. And one of the typical examples of this disharmony, let's say, this field of civil initiatives is, say, protecting the area of the building of Crassus. It showed that, despite these high standards, despite all the rules of protection, despite environmental reports and assessments, individual interventions cannot be stopped unless they are stopped by local authorities. It is said that in the process of adopting this plan act, he does not say: "No. It's over. You can't do that here!" For example, one of the cases that stabbed me in the report is a case of conflict of interest, where the report says that these comprehensive environmental impact assessments should be considered the most difficult cases of IPPO, so that they should also be extended to minor interventions to banalise - the hens and the smaller barns and so on. I don't think that's the right way. Cases arising in practice from a conflict of interest between individuals who have moved into a rural environment and who are obliged to accept the characteristics of this environment. We can't get to the point where someone who moved from town to you dictates that farms should be closed because they stink. We have had such cases, and we have faced such cases. I think this is the wrong world. If someone has come to live on you, the environment, as it is, must be accepted as a value, and if it does not smell from his stables, of course this is his problem. But it is not a problem of these establishments that have always operated there, which have always been there and will continue to operate. I note this because I felt that in some area we might be moving away from what is essential. You could talk about it for a long time, but I think it's important. The point is that we will face the biggest challenge in the field of waste in the coming months. On 15 July, the permit will be lost by a number of landfills and it will be very difficult to find solutions in the way now envisaged in the operational programme, where a whole range of municipalities are expected to dispose of waste to new landfills, which are not yet available and will not be for the next three to five years. In fact, this is a major challenge and a call for those responsible to face these problems very quickly and to prepare appropriate solutions. The second segment where the phenomenon is detected is the housing area in the report. The right to adequate housing or the Constitution states in Article 78: "The State creates opportunities for citizens to have adequate housing." This is a significant difference in the fact that someone is obliged to provide something. So, the possibilities have to be provided. And in this area, a lot of things have been done. It must be recognised that in the last mandate, subsidies for young families, by increasing the funding for non-profit housing, or by recapitalising the Housing Fund with the land on which the construction is to be carried out. By equating the possibility of applying reduced rents across the entire housing segment, including on the market, as established by 1. 1st this year, by amending the Housing Law, which is intended to allow for the expansion of this building through public-private partnerships, in many ways. I personally regret that the provision that you have written in one of the draft coalition agreements on the construction of 10,000 dwellings in this mandate does not remain in this text. She's gone. She's gone. Now I don't know if that means you won't do it because you're scared of it, or what? But the essence of measures in the housing sector is the adoption of legislation and measures in all areas other than housing, tax and other measures which will accelerate; in these situations, this is all the more important; the construction of apartments and through this increased offer of rental apartments have created a rental real estate market. It's not like that. And since it's not there, it's a problem for everyone to have access to housing. Once this has been established and a regulatory framework has been put in place to allow for the transition from these dwellings, I think that this postulate, as set out in the Constitution, will also be ensured. Of course, they are not able to do this by themselves. I have observed that the main axis in the report to the municipalities is because they do not have resources, they do not have resources, and in the final stage this is not their primary task either. I must say that there are quite a few things that point to the proper regulation of things, to the improvement of the existing regime, and I hope that the new government will listen to what is written, as it did before, and that the recommendations will also be reflected in the adoption of measures and activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u59	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Madam Guardian of Human Rights with fellow workers. Colleagues and colleagues. First of all, thank the Ombudsman for the comprehensive report. I understand this report as a reflection of the state of human rights in Slovenia. As a reminder of how citizens and citizens understand the realization of human rights in many fields of their lives and work. At the same time, as a reminder of how citizens and citizens are informed of their own knowledge and, above all, of their warnings, of the law, where individuals who, on behalf of a country or a local community, are competent to enforce laws, are consistent and respect for human rights, where they are violated, where, according to the opinion of the Ombudsman and co-workers, the legislation is also weak and does not ensure that fundamental human rights are realized. Probably none of us have the illusion that we will ever be a society in which no one will be harmed by any right. However, I think that in the years since we receive reports and since the active institution of the Ombudsman, we have also made significant progress in addressing this report in the National Assembly. I'd like to get a year's report in which it would be written, the violation is no longer, but it's unrealistic. The Ombudsman points out that human rights violations are still in place, but the response of the relevant authorities is relatively good and relatively high. I think that where this is happening, we need to be relatively satisfied with this situation and, in fact, only show that we still need to accelerate some activity, especially in cases where the relevant authority is ready to respond immediately and correct its error either in terms of a material decision or in terms of the procedure or in terms of a faster response and similar. I am also relatively satisfied when the Ombudsman reminds us of certain problems and at the same time says that they are not properly regulated, and we or through the conclusions we take here, or directly through the legislation prepared by the Government and our home committees, are supplementing them. Not ideal, but complementary. And I agree with my colleagues and colleagues who have also pointed out at today's meeting that in recent years, we have also changed the Ombudsman's and the Ombudsman's warnings and adopted certain legislation that is in our interest or for the benefit of the rule of law. The worst part, I think, is when it is not only once, but it warns of certain violations for years, and there is a silence of the Government and the competent authorities or even positions that object to such warnings and show that we are not prepared to do anything in this area. And worst of all, when it comes to such views, it is not only the government representatives who have reason for it either materially or ideually or for other reasons, but also the majority in the National Assembly. And this time, today, we are faced with some of these issues, which are explicitly mentioned in the Ombudsman's report, and in an important part of the debaters, there is a complete misunderstanding of the problem and the essence, and they think that anything in this Slovenian country will happen if we solve these problems as well. One of the things not mentioned in the report is, for example, a partial widow's pension, especially for women after former military insurers. No, no material, no formal reason to allow a hundred or more women, mostly women, such a pension, which would amount to a few ten euros a month, is allowed. And it wasn't in the previous government's power to do that. No, really no reason, except not being prepared to think about it at all. Another such problem is linked to tenants in denationalized apartments and households. It is not that we succeed in doing what they themselves require to ensure their equal position in 1991; I would strongly like to do so, but I almost do not hope to think about it; but that we continue to prevent the possibility of at least ensuring that the State participates in the purchase, I say that some of the resources are given by the State, some of the compensation fund, some of the owner, some of the lessor himself, and that I find it unreasonable to do so and I cannot understand that we are not in a position to enforce it. And finally, a very similar problem is with the deleted. We make up stories that are offensive and false, that they are people who have been against Slovenia's independence, that they have had all the opportunities and received notices from the ministries, which is a lie, and they have not received them. The Ministry's notices were in this direction that we need to, we have dispatches that these people need to be taken and destroyed when they report to the administrative authorities because these documents, which are old, have no longer the right to use. But it's a shame to talk about this, because I just want to emphasise that, we have the opportunity to do this in a fair way, without prejudice to the state, of course, provided that those who made those decisions at the time admit that those decisions were not good. That they could think best, I don't want to hurt anyone, but the Constitutional Court later found unconstitutional and therefore needed a change. And there would be some cases to mention, and it is a shame that we are taking time for each other's controversy, when in these areas, too, several hundred or several thousand people could regulate the legal conditions for their resolution and thus gradually settle some issues that are not of honour to us. I hope that this will happen today, irrespective of the half-truths, which also relate to the way in which the conclusions on the working body were adopted, explain that the new Slovenian government will also attach themselves to this and that we will gradually solve another problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u61	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! I will touch the chapter on the limitation of the personal freedom of detainees and convicts on the sentence of imprisonment and the removal of prisoners. Let me start by saying, prisons are not a sanatorium or a rest hotel, as some would like to see that they are. In order to give people who are in prison, all the commodity that hotels, fitness clubs and the best health care facilities are able to overcome is required. And I also have to add that they mostly have all of that. I'm not one of those people who doesn't get the best and most comfortable stay in institutions, but when I compare hospitals, even nursing homes, the ones who end up in prison are better. You mention a visit to Ljubljana prisons in midsummer that the thermometer showed 31.9 degrees. You know, if we went to the hospital at the same time to measure the temperature, I'm not going to mention which one, the temperature there was a little bit higher, in the department where people were lying after the heart attack. You refer to poor accessibility and quality of healthcare in institutions for the cessation of prison sentences. You know, I have to fix you here, because the kind of medical care that prisoners have, none of the other citizens have. Convicts and detainees in Slovenia have the status of self-payers, which means that they have priority in all treatments in health institutions. The defendant shall be the competent court in charge of the investigation, and the payer shall be the institution in which the convict ends his sentence. A convict who comes to prison, including a shorter sentence, for example, two months, explains to a doctor at first sight all his medical problems, has full care in all possible health facilities the next day. So he visits a number of specialists within one month, including those with whom ordinary citizens have to wait in line even after a few months or years. In short, the convict's not waiting anywhere, but he's being treated as a self-payer. The costs for the country are so high, as each basic review is considered self-paying, and costs increase enormously when specialist examinations, physiotherapy, various rehabilitations in the health resorts, etc. Thus today, in the event of health problems, it is best to land in prison, since there is no other citizen to provide such immediate specialist examinations. A large number of convicts are also tested for various diseases related to lifestyles, drugs, or even involved in very expensive drug withdrawal programs, which have so far failed for a lot of money. On the other hand, the same Ministry does not provide for investigations into hepatitis, HIV, etc. for workers who are in daily contact with convicts. This year, however, the matter has changed slightly and the public health system will be adopted in a way that makes matters run differently. You speak of overoccupation, here I agree with you completely. Look, at the same time, I wonder how it is possible for a country that does not have money to expand and upgrade capacity to have more than 1.6 million euros to rebuild a holiday home on Rab Island, which is still a questionable property. In prisons, however, employees face severe problems because they do not even have the basic protective resources in their work with sick, dangerously infected prisoners, and they expose themselves to their own families. You know, that's extremely worrying, and you don't write anything about it, but you close your eyes in front of these things. No compensation shall be paid to the guards years ago for eating during a daily period of at least 4 hours. I have not seen anywhere that you would be concerned about the sale of the Pohorje Public Economics Institute, the Prison of the Age, where most of the convicts are now working and it is the only source of income for them. Privatisation of this company means that most of the convicts now employed will lose their jobs. The data he's holding is that the job will only keep 60% of the convicts. Why don't you talk about it? I am sure that you are aware of this because the invitation to tender has been made public and has been for sale outside this company for a year and a half. It is also known who should buy it and the invitation to tender should be written on the skin of only one interested party. You write about torture and inhumanely degrading treatment of prisoners. Of course, you're here explaining overoccupation, but the sentence you wrote down is not appropriate. You know, everybody thinks about Guantanamo right now or some other time. This certainly does not come with Slovenian prisons. You're referring to a low number of guards. Of course, it's been a long time, but you didn't respond when the information came that 60 outposts were redeployed to justice. As you can see, we all know everything, but we don't. I would also mention the staffing, which is the time of the wound after the prisons, and how the Ombudsman should be interested. You know, to have people in the institution fit both by education and by internship and to look for staff for leading jobs outside the institution, people without a shred of knowledge about working with closed persons, I find it inappropriate and extremely improper. You know, there's something the Ombudsman should say here, too, when he's making a mistake to the employees of the institutions. But no, you forget about these people on purpose or something. As far as possible, if possible, for every detail, disciplinary and human resources pursuit. It's just times like this. This may also turn to a better course, even when those responsible will be responsible for their actions and will prevail in their minds. The report mentions the event and the issue of deleted. You are saying that the proposed constitutional law already at the beginning denies both decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia because it is intended to bypass the decision of the Constitutional Court relating to the deleted. You advocate that the deleted be returned to what you think would be unlawfully taken from them in the wake of the country's independence. You are reading to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is not seeking a way to implement and enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but that it would not be, but it is only too much. To evaluate what is pride and what is not in our country is really inappropriate on your part. You know, independence and the results so far show that we can be very proud of our country. It's undeniable that we've had a self-conquering war. It is also undeniable that all those who actively participated in the war of independence did not know how long this war would last. Or it'll be a month, a year, two. We only knew one thing that we had to win in this self-serving war, otherwise it's very bad for us. At that time, many people from the former Yugoslavia lived in our Republic. Many families who have come to know and accepted Slovenia as their home country, arranged residence documents, arranged their citizenship, and thus confirmed their nationality to the country of Slovenia. And there were a lot of them who didn't. Some returned to their republics, speculated, waited for what would happen in Slovenia. Many so-called speculators also went to war zones. As soldiers, they bled their hands and returned to Slovenia a few months or years later and demanded citizenship, recognition of back status, compensation, etc. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in Article 1 that Slovenia is a democratic republic. I would add here that Slovenia is an opportunity for all working and honest people, not for speculators, war fugitives and criminals. That is what we think in the Slovenian National Party. Anyone who thinks otherwise should say so. Reliablely, there is also someone who has been wronged. Of course, this needs to be rectified, problems need to be addressed from case to case, and some who have been unjustifiable beneficiaries and status should also not be checked. I think it will be necessary to reintroduce sanctions on expulsion from the country, because the problem of crime is known to us all and it is high time that we stop blinding our eyes before this. Let's be concrete. By doing so, we provide people with what we promised in the days of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u63	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear Lady Guardian with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! This 13th report of the Ombudsman is very extensive. I must say that I would expect a ratio between quantity and quality, but according to the principle of "copy-paste" virtually only add some sentences to each previous report. Most of this is practically repeated, and I must say that I am disappointed in such a way of working. For this means that at the end of your term of office a thick book will come out of this. And we also have cases like this in some other departments that, since they've been computers, they haven't written anything. I would have expected and wished that we would have a precise category ahead of us: Ecclatic human rights violations, if they exist, but I think they were gone during this period. Then those border cases, the trends and so on. Now I don't know if such a report works. Of course, such a comprehensive 2007 report can also be motivated by something else. Does this mean that the Commission did not act badly for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities at the time, that it did not rescue and warn and that matters are being collected. I see that, after the reaction, after the performance, there is also now a significantly better-managed committee. Secondly, it could also be "associated" that in that year, when we know which government it was, it was very wrong in the field of human rights and equal opportunities. This may also be the purpose of such an inflationary spread of the report. Of course, this report needs to be touched, at least I will touch myself again with what is in the section on public speaking ethics, hate speech and the like. I think that, in fact, as has already been said today, some phenomena should be registered and that practice does not continue here, that there is an unequal approach in view of the political orientation of those who use hate speech. In fact, I did not see anywhere that this impatient performance, the sexist outburst of the then Member, the current Minister, would be problematic anywhere, with the Ombudsman's Institute. Moreover, it seems that the minister has silence and in Saturday's interview for work, Saturday's annex, which is full of rematchism, some noodles, says: I do not withdraw my views. We know that others have been, apologized, sanctioned or withdrawn from their positions for this reason, and of course the Ombudsman should be particularly concerned about such governmental treatment of such a message that everything is permitted and possible for the authorities. Then I would like to point out to the Ombudsman that, last time we discussed on 19 November 2007, I specifically highlighted and, in fact, demanded a reaction, an interpretation, then a pre-election statement by Mrs Hribar, who stated that arms trade has the same negative moral weight as post-war killings. Look, this is unacceptable humiliation and humiliation of victims, genocide, war crimes and their descendants. Comparing genocidal crimes with some arms trade that dealt with a lot of investigative commissions and so far nothing has been proven. In any case, it is a crime in which no one has been killed. And it's unacceptable to compare it with that. And since today is a day of memory of the Holocaust, it is particularly important to say that such insults are unacceptable. And I want the guardian to tell you how she reacted to what was specifically asked. This is also in serious trouble with the efforts of the President of the Republic, who has recently spoken well of reconciliation in two important speeches. Last time at the Osankarica, he said, "We miss it, or we can't be bothered by insults trying to prevent reconciliation, insults, outbursts, intolerance of some people." I think he had in mind the fallout that happened at the time. And he's so bad, so horrible. Such unequal treatments, such inexpressible matters, are quite something in this report. I think that we need to focus on the main things that hinder our society, so that we can always and everywhere understand what rights are, where they are violated and so on. I will only touch the deleted briefly, because so far I have mentioned thousands of deleted, who have been further offended in another way and were Slovenian citizens when they were deleted. Theme deleted. In most cases, it is a matter of political motivation for mucking, especially a political project for the mudslides of the Slovenian state at the time of creation and founders and those who at the time were responsible for the Slovenian state. And this is in the context of overvaluation, attempts to revalue the self-sustainment of some capital. These experiments have been very present lately. We hear different interpretations of who is deserving, who was for plebiscite and so on, and this is a matter of function. It is sad that such different institutions are linked and not overlooked by the levels directly responsible for respect for human rights and thus for the respect of the Slovenian state and the independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u65	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. He's not here. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected guardian with coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thanks for the outstanding report, which was attached to the hearing of the National Assembly, while congratulating for, in my opinion, the very good work done, which was done for the first time at the time the Ombudsman took up her mandate. Of course, this report shows whether we are successfully exercising human rights both in legislative procedures and in their enforcement and also shows whether, through discussions each year, we are successful in improving the level of respect for human rights from year to year on these reports and the recommendations adopted. That is why I also somehow support the priorities identified by the Ombudsman, namely violence, poverty and environmental protection. And a very wide set, which is linked to these three priority areas. What do you want me to say? If we have witnessed in the last five years that the number of initiatives addressed to the Ombudsman has somehow been declining, which is also a trend in other comparable countries as part of the international comparison. Of course, we have noticed again for 2007 that the number of initiatives has increased. This growth is not modest, it is about 10% increase in these initiatives. The explanation, at least so is the power to explain from the report, can be seen in two directions. The first, which I would consider to be correct and meaningful in view of the increasing awareness and information of people, is increasing, and that they are aware of the procedures in which they can exercise their human rights if they are violated. In this case, of course, it would be logical to expect an increase in the Ombudsman's initiatives from this title. Of course, we can see in the report the possibility of another trend. One of these is certainly this, whether we care enough about the reputation and authority of the Constitution and the laws, therefore, by certain laws for the independence of such institutions. The Ombudsman describes nicely that failure to comply with decisions of the Constitutional Court is a way to reduce the reputation and authority of this independent institution. Can we understand this in the context of the need for the Ombudsman to affix certain labels, negative signs, pointing out that the realization of human rights in Slovenia in certain areas is not appropriate? If we can also add that in 2007 it was possible to follow the pressure on an independent anti-corruption commission when we were able to monitor that the Court of Auditors' decision was not binding on a certain action, or in this direction we can assess that we can follow the trend of human rights reduction or the realization of human rights, which means, say, that we can increase individual initiatives. Of course, I would like the new government to ensure the further creation of the reputation and authority of individual independent institutions, which will point to incorrect procedures that can then lead, of course, to the reduction of human rights violations. It is precisely a matter of concern that the share of initiatives is the largest in those areas that the Ombudsman has given priority to itself, namely: the area of children's rights, social security and the greatest increase in the lack of respect for human rights within economic public societies. And if we add that the Ombudsman's assessment in this context is that there are weak members of our society, then the Ombudsman's institute is still needed. I would not agree here with the individual estimates that the guardian with the co-workers has not shown a willingness to cooperate, including to cooperate with the National Assembly. I will say only two cases of which I was very positively surprised by the Ombudsman's response, these are the procedures for the adoption of the Patients' Rights Act and the Mental Health Act. Here I must say that cooperation has been exemplary, at least to the extent that I have had the opportunity to accompany it as President of this Committee and, of course, we want such cooperation to be strengthened in the future. And in this context, I support the Ombudsman's proposal. Dear Minister of Public Administration, consider whether the procedures for involving civil society in the debate on the content of individual legislative proposals should be regulated in such a way as to regulate this in the initial stage, either by law or by clear transparent rules, in what way we will do this at all levels. Practice is different, it's good somewhere, but somewhere it's almost gone and we miss it. If I return to these two laws, the Patients' Rights Act and the Mental Health Act, which concerned the largest group of residents and residents, in this case, the practice was not good. And given that these are issues that should have some kind of consistent practice, how we will address these issues, I think the Ombudsman's initiative is in place. To conclude, the very thought. We can see in the report that the social distress of individuals, families is an extremely pressing problem and that there are increasing initiatives to protect human rights. I think that before this government is a very important task, even at the time we live, to include a decent life for each individual in the construction of Slovenian society. Therefore, creation and effort to create equal and equal conditions for each individual to develop abilities is extremely important. And here I also appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to make every effort, within the framework of its institutions, to deal in fact with the most problems or with the most cases of people at the edge of society, to make maximum efforts to mitigate and to remedy the consequences in this area. At the conclusion, it's just a thought. Thank you for your outstanding report. I am confident, given the first year of work in 2007 and the fact that we already know the work in 2008, that the result of the 2008 report will certainly have some positive results, and that, of course, the recommendations we will adopt today will also help to ensure that human rights violations in Slovenia are constantly and increasingly reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rojaj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the beginning, I would like to touch on the opinions expressed in the report by a colleague of the Friend. I think it's weird. I think it was also a misunderstanding of the 2007 report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, the debate also included things that are not likely to be part of the cycle or in this report that we are dealing with on a local basis. The Ombudsman is responsible for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Its borders may not be known until the last centimetre, but the fact is that certain members of the Slovenian people live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, so that they are probably responsible for the realization of their human rights by the "imbudsmen" of other countries. I would also like to touch upon the views put forward by the President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, on behalf of the SDS Group, on amendments we are discussing, etc. It would be difficult for me to assess whether the previous Government's efforts in the field of human rights were as good as those described. The law of the same-sex partnership has been mentioned, although we all know that the same-sex groups themselves have been happy only because of one thing, because they have finally obtained a legal basis so that they can complain about the unconstitutionality of this law, which in no way equates their rights with any other partnership. And well, if this is one step in the right direction, fine, so be it. But it would be wise to boast of this law as a good marriage. Furthermore, improvements to the Penal Code have been mentioned, and of course it should be mentioned that the new Penal Code has also introduced into Slovenian law something that has not been known for years and years, a life imprisonment that is unlikely to be a shining example of the protection of human rights and even fewer freedoms. At least I find it inappropriate, distasteful, if not unacceptable to compare certain human rights violations. In short, those who have been committed systematically, whose infringement has been proven or decided by the judgments of the highest judicial authority in this country, and other alleged violations that are a matter of our personal assessment. For once, no court found them. I'm talking, of course, about alleged media manipulation and so on. I can agree with my colleague Irglovo that Slovenian media are sensationalist. I find it difficult to agree with her conclusions on their alleged political views and ownership, and so on, but it is likely that each of us can have a personal opinion, which I respect. However, it would be difficult to weigh these various human rights violations. And to the problem of persons who have been erased from the records of the permanent residents of the Republic of Slovenia, it must be said that this problem is so acute because it is not the only one, but most in the sky, when the Republic of Slovenia, which was created on the basis of the decision of its inhabitants and is one of the few countries in this world that does not draw its nationals from international agreements or from some monarchy remnants and so on, but we are one of the few countries that has decided to be a country, in short, that they are erased from one of the rare stains. On the reasons why we decided on this country, I said in my first speech, when I represented the position of the Group of Members, that human rights were enshrined in the basic constitutional charter and the preamble to the Constitution, as the basis behind which we decided for our country. And if we now deny these same human rights, whose violation has been established by the Constitutional Court and, I will say, we throw the pollen under the feet of all those who want to correct this violation, then we deny our own statehood and this is an attempt to malign Slovenian self-reliance, rather than to claim these rights. I hope that I have been understanding in this explanation, although it is likely to be repeated. I would also like to touch the enemy’s speech and say that we are very exposed as public figures, and we must be very careful about what we say and how. I am sure that my colleague Irgle's subconsciously wanted to say the real thing that is important in Slovenia, what someone says and does not say it, even though she later changed her position, maybe it was a slip, I don't know. In short, even in the National Assembly, we had a case of youth in the previous extraordinary session; and youth is a word that is also in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, but it depends on its context whether it is offensive or not; it was probably another word; it was used as one of the labels that disqualified the youngest of us Members and Members, and the then President did not react, and we also had such cases today, and so on. In short, in this area, we are probably the first to make the most of this hostile speech, in some way setting the rules, and so we could be very careful about it. The amendments proposed by the coalition members of the group, as has already been said, are better in our opinion addressing these problems, which are mentioned in the report, and I think that the vote against them would be a clear indication, due to one possible amendment adopted, that in certain cases it is not a matter of respect for human rights, but, if I may recite the former prime minister and a fellow Member: "ideological rematchism and political lustration". I do not think that human rights policies should be so brutally involved in the field of human rights. I believe in democracy myself, and if I'm to illustrate these feelings, it's my faith, I believe in democracy, and this hall is the sanctuary of democracy, at least it should be. The other chambers of this House are some side chapels and I am therefore not only nervous, it grieves me that, if you want, my religious feelings, when daily politics or politics are mixed into something as lofty or if you want sacred as human rights, I hope that the following debates will be more dignified in the Office of the Ombudsman's next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u69	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u70	Mr. Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian and her coworkers! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I would also like to join those colleagues and colleagues who have pointed out in today's debate the extremely rich and precise content of your report, Madam Guardian. It is only the fact that the 13th regular report on the state of human rights in our country bears witness that Slovenia pays great attention to human rights. Although it may seem today, as the Ombudsman has already said in the introduction, 2007 seems to be moving somewhere, and I would not even say it is. I think it was this year when we witnessed important events relating to respect for human rights, as well as the lack of respect for human rights. In today's rich debate, colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned a number of such cases. I would like to limit myself more to the situation and freedom of the media, journalists, freedom and hate speech, and to discrimination against those smaller ones, as recorded in the Ombudsman's report, which are not specifically mentioned in the Slovenian Constitution. If we start with the media, in 2007 or September 2007, the Slovenian public, as well as the foreign public, was quite shaken up, I would say, or a petition by 571 journalists, who spoke against censorship and political pressure on journalists in Slovenia. Such a mass and uniform performance by Slovenian journalists, from various fields, has not yet been experienced by Slovenia from various media. While the Ombudsman's report does not specifically mention this petition, I am personally surprised, but the Ombudsman says, if I may quote, "that in 2007 she was also repeatedly personally warned about the poor situation of journalists and media under various pressures." I think that includes this petition, probably. When I quote the guardian, I can't avoid a quote from the petition itself. I'm going to quote you with only one piece, which I think is quite an illustration of the position of journalism in today's society." Censorship in Slovenian media has several emerging forms. The first refers to the substantive corrections to the articles without the author's consent. Other articles, including ordered articles, are often not published, usually without a valid explanation. The third form is the restriction of reporting on certain politically sensitive topics and the prohibition on the Government's access to certain media by disgruntled opinion leaders. Journalists are denied working relationships, they are demolished, they are deprived of their jobs, they are transferred, they are discriminated against and they are bullied." In short, 571 journalists warned the public about groups and individuals, even the Government, the then government of the Republic of Slovenia, who wanted to limit the freedom that the free-minded part of the Slovenian public had imposed in the 1980s, to the rebellion of the then Slovenian public against the then Yugoslav criminal prosecution of the so-called verbal delinquent. A little older among us will recall the infamous Article 133 of the then Yugoslav Codex, which persecuted this. That is why we Slovenians are so much more sensitive to violations of freedom of speech. This is still a valid issue today. In media houses, the Ombudsman is still not responsible for the private part of the media landscape, but also in public institutions, RTV Slovenia still has the involvement of management structures and politically appointed editors in press freedom. Recently, however, it has been concerned that even from a part of the policy, there is such a misunderstanding of freedom of speech that we have recently come up with a book, let us be a concrete Chafuri raus, a witness to the author's questioning of the content of the work. Some eminent politician, you will all know who I am talking about, and even the prosecution of publicists and other Slovenian intellectuals who express their opinion on his work. And this is even the man who was the victim of some 20 years ago of the Yugoslav Unimence. On the other hand, this freedom of speech that I want to extend in this Slovenia is widely understood by some. This is the hate speech we've been talking about all day in this room. This is, as my colleague Rojej from Zares said, a place where different political views are faced. And I have absolutely no objection to my colleague Irgle, who was previously appointed, or to any of the other colleagues on the other hand, to think differently from me. And they probably won't mind me thinking differently than you, because it's a democracy. But I'm worried when we complain. Either we complain or our colleagues publicly complain or other public figures in the media. The Ombudsman in the report mentions not only ordinary insults, but hate speech in the media, hate speech on the websites. And that's an upsetting concern. I think it would be very wise if we also engaged here - of course, we cannot order them - the Society of Journalists of Slovenia and other journalists associations that exist in Slovenia to discuss the situation in the Slovenian media in this area more. I am pleased to read the opinion of the Ministry of Culture of the current government, which is responsible for the media field, that they interpret the dissemination of hate speech in comments, such as whether in such broadcasts, not only as the responsibility of individual authors or guests, but also of responsible editors. Responsible editors should be aware of what they allow in their shows and what they do not. That is why I would call on both the Ombudsman and the Government to pay particular attention to this area in the future, and that the Ombudsman may also draw attention to serious violations by the competent authorities. Despite the fact that we do not yet have legal practice and some specific experience in this area, I think it is high time that such legislation is prepared so that we step on the enemy's speech. I have already said that I would like to devote some space in today's contribution to the issue of discrimination concerning national and ethnic minorities. The Ombudsman notes very correctly in the report that the UN Covenant on Civil and Political Rights provides that the existence of a minority is an objective fact and that it does not depend on the decision or recognition of the State. This is also the situation in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have constitutionally recognised two minorities, who in my opinion are exemplaryly represented in society and have a exemplary guarantee of rights. On the Commission for Slovenians around the world and in place, we often find how beautiful it would be if we had such protection of our rights as our fellow citizens abroad. In the meantime, as I agree with the Ombudsman's finding, I miss the definition of the Government to the status of those minorities which are not specifically defined in the Constitution. A German minority is mentioned, including one case. As already mentioned by my colleague Juri, I would point out the need for a strategic reflection by the Slovenian government on the situation of ethnic communities of Albanians, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Croats, Macedonians and Serbs, representing 11% of the population in Slovenia. I am not talking about random arrivals, but about citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have lived here for many years, who must have the same rights as everyone else. Finally, if we are already in the case of the infamous, infamous, innocuous claims, from my mouth, Madam Guardian, I sincerely hope that you will be able to release this chapter when you write your 2009 report for this year, thanks to our government, because it will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u71	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, to all of us here for a nice greeting. I must admit, I expected a little more from this report. It is indeed extensive and it is slowly resembling the collected works of Marx and Engels, but the question is how much of this report mentions the real problems of human rights violations and, above all, the protection of human rights. I'm very sorry that the guardian, I don't know whether she missed the secret service problem on purpose or purpose. The year 2007 referred to in this report was in the wake of the Owl affair. Otherwise, it was in the symbol of the sova affair, which dates back to 2004, but most of the affair took place in 2007 and in 2008. In the event of a wiretap, John Janša was involved in an eccentric violation of human rights, especially in the part where this wiretap was misused for political purposes. And there's nothing about it in this report. True, in the field of secret services, we are legally permitted to intervene in human rights, but the law does not allow the abuse of these human rights. And in this area, I must say that I am truly disappointed because the guardian simply bypassed or ignored this case. I'd stop at the "Environment and Space" chapter. This chapter is addressed to 9, 10 pages together with examples. I'd say it's pretty modest. Today, we have also heard that the Ombudsman chooses the cases she presents in this annual report. I think all these cases are important, but I'm sure there would be more important. To mention the smell of a neighbor's hen, I think it's trivial and abject. Really. This may be a major problem for an individual if he smells from a neighbor's hen house, but in Slovenia we have so many major environmental problems that this case could simply be released. And if sometimes this Parliament really reminds us of TV Good Day, individual parts of this report remind us of that famous edition of the Sunday Eye. I'm sorry. Here I would remind you, Madam Guardian, that in 2007 we had broad discussions, including in the media, on environmental pollution in the Upper Mežiški valley. This is certainly more important than that smell from this henhouse. Otherwise, the burden of the environment in the valley of Mežíska goes back centuries, but in 2007 we had an affair with the sink, in 2007 we received new data on how children were poisoned due to the amount of lead in the earth and nothing is written about it in this report. I am pleased that the President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk, still has a slightly different attitude, and will come to Koroška in early March to see how we are trying to fix this very big problem for us Koroška. But this government is not nice to this valley. We have to be honest here. The former Minister of Health predicted that there would be an additional dentist in Mizica. A corresponding decision was signed, but the new minister put this decision in a drawer with some arrogance and recklessness, along with the head of the Department of Health Insurance, and approved the concession elsewhere than in Slovenia Gradec. If this is the attitude of the Government towards Koroška, it is no wonder that we know that such a relationship is also a human right in general. This article is described in Del, dated 8 January of this year, which examines the report of the Ombudsman at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the address? The government's response is flat and sloppy. Deputy Ombudsman Tone Dolčič says the government's response report is flat and sloppy. I quote: "The approach of individual ministries is very different. Some explain the measures in detail, while others address the problem only with one sentence. Apparently, some of the things the guardian's report didn't read at all. Everything about deleted is true, but this is a report from the former government." Interestingly, you who have written down human rights to your political flag have such a relationship with the Ombudsman's report. And the question is, when will you have such a relationship to human rights in general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well-welcome members of the College of the Guardian of Human Rights, colleagues and colleagues! The annual reports of the Ombudsman are certainly a major challenge for all Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and an opportunity and opportunity to raise and open a number of issues. The report is certainly a 2007 government mirror from which it can be understood how and how it dealt with the resolution of a type of case. It is an opportunity for a thorough reflection on the past path, on the actions and actions of all arbitrators in the process of designing measures to improve and change social data and how to achieve those changes that will benefit human rights, and what role the Ombudsman should play in doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, in your report you have repeatedly mentioned a number of funds with representatives of civil society, NGOs and other interested public. You note that public participation in the legislative process is not regulated by law, although the right to manage public affairs in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is defined as a special human right in Article 44. In particular, I would like to point out that the possibilities for the public to influence the content of the proposed proposals, regulations and laws are given only at the time of the preparation of these rules and prior to the hearing in the National Assembly, for example, in ministries and other government bodies. It is therefore so important that the rules are prepared transparently taking into account reasonable deadlines for publication on web portals and otherwise allowing for the participation of the widest possible stakeholders. The guidelines for public information have been prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration and further consideration and preparation of implementing instructions and manuals for the actual issuance of these guidelines can be expected. Today, in its opening remarks, the new Minister announced some changes in this area. Waiting for a new wind. The sector of NGOs in Slovenia is both substantively varied and rich. These organisations unite and activate more than half of the citizens of Slovenia, a million. Most in sports, 28% of culture, 12% of firefighters, about 12% social, and so on. This is a very rich and very varied choice for the public, which certainly has much to say in this area. Although this is an extremely important sector that enables Slovenia to have extraordinary development opportunities, there is still no real interest in systemic regulation of this area. Legal uncertainties, financial instability and human resources malnutrition are the characteristics and standings of this sector, which all international organisations and developed democracies have as an important part of a successful society and a driving force for a large number of initiatives, particularly in the field of civil society. Therefore, the sector rightly expects that the concept of 'non-governmental organisations', the term 'public', and the procedure for their application in public decision-making will be defined in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, the concept of what 'interested public' is and how this interested public is, of course, being articulated. It also expects clearer and systematic definitions: the status of functioning of organisations in the public interest; the procedure and criteria for assessing public benefit; the institutions that decide on it; the rights and obligations of NGOs. For many years they have certainly been expecting changes in the system mechanism, donors of friendly tax legislation, which is intended to upgrade existing tax solutions. This sector can also be a source of new jobs. Employment in the non-governmental sector means a niche to raise the employment rate in the country, especially for job seekers and experienced older people. I think it is most important to involve this sector in all decision-making processes, thereby increasing democracy and cooperation and co-existence in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] There is a Member of Parliament, Mr France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Ombudsman's report is a very extensive, demanding work of great interest. A total of 9 hours and 20 minutes of debate have been announced for this agenda item. This interest is also reflected in the sense that it is an extremely important area of human rights, an area that is also difficult to manage because it is so broad, deep, important, sensitive. On the one hand, no one expects this report to be a good thing right now, so that all the recommendations will be implemented immediately and things will change. However, this report, which is essential, has a educational purpose. For the first time, to sensitise politics, that is, us Members, and to sensitise the public. Unfortunately, there is no direct transmission for viewers to experience this effect in front of television screens. Because the transmission is only on a digital network. So only where the cable network is set up. There is another way to feel a great interest in the work of the Ombudsman. That is, we, although I did not agree to it, have enacted the Ombudsman of Patient Rights. DeSUS announces a proposal for the guardian of the elderly. There will certainly be a proposal for a special guardian of children. For the guardian of domestic violence and the special guardian, too, it is likely that it will soon be for the prevention of mobbingo or for the rights of workers in the workplace. Mrs. Chebashek, what will you have left? I think that's one of the questions that needs to be resolved whether we're going in the right direction. Why crush this institution? If we feel that we are unable to do this work in the current crew, let us strengthen it. Let us give her the opportunity to have more of her trusted deputies and so on. And if the development goes forward, then you will have only the rights of those marginal groups that we have not addressed so far, we have not paid attention to them. One of these groups is also a group of politicians. Politicians, too, may need a special guardian of human rights, or this guardian will sometimes give us more attention. I don't mean all politicians. Maybe our group doesn't. Perhaps, however, we would touch on the problem of lies in the public and the media lynch of politicians from a particular political group. We know what we experienced in the end or last year, what a lie does, what a lynching does. And as Mrs Klasinc mentioned the problem of the media scene, I would like to mention that the scene really needs a special Ombudsman or at least a special deputy or a trustee of the Ombudsman for the public's right to the truth. Let me tell you my own experience. A particular diary never publishes its direct lies or the conversion of a statement of policy from, of course, some political options, demantia. Or let a man sue for every piece of shit. The lawsuit lasts ten years, five years, when the matter is no longer valid. Yes, a politician needs his Ombudsman. And I think that's one of the things that we had to say here, not all politicians, not all political options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Member Dejan Levanić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. The area of human rights is a reliable area that we must pay special attention to over and over again, especially because it is a matter of protecting human dignity. Personally, I would like to focus on the chapter in the report, which focuses mainly on housing issues. In the Ombudsman's report, we can see that in the area of housing in 2007, they received exactly the same number of initiatives as in 2006. These initiatives have been a great deal, but most importantly the fact that open issues and uncertainties in the implementation of legislation have been highlighted for several years. Despite constant warnings, the situation in the country remains unchanged, as our country has almost completely abandoned the market and the functioning of its legality. Young families and socially weaker ones therefore have very poor opportunities to resolve the housing issue. Therefore, as much as we talk about individual areas, and when we read the Ombudsman's report over and over again, it is only right that we are trying to correct the irregularities that are taking place in the future. As far as housing is concerned, it should be noted that all these groups, which somehow cannot solve the housing problem, should, in accordance with legislation, be assisted by municipalities which, in carrying out housing tasks, refer mainly to the inadequacy of legislation and the lack of financial resources. In the Law on Local Self - Administration, the responsibility of the congregation is clear what the congregation’s tasks are. This is set up primarily to meet the needs of its inhabitants, with a specific definition of the obligation to create housing conditions and to raise the rentable social housing fund. In particular, these functions of the congregation in the residential area are defined in Article 154 of the Housing Law. The active role of the congregation in finding housing solutions for its citizens should be clearly and unequivocally defined in the law, as the guardian points out. In essence, however, the situation of young families is quite hopeless, left to the smooth functioning of the market and the congregations and the possible assistance of relatives, that is, their parents, their parents, and so on. In addition, unreliable legislation has contributed to the trustlessness of such cases, as the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman have repeatedly pointed out in their reports. The housing issue of young, elderly and unemployed persons is certainly also a state problem, not just the problem of individual municipalities, and is often linked to the problems of survival. There have been no major changes to correct such a situation in our country in the past. Therefore, it is not expected that the Ombudsman's 2008 report will be anything different in this area. And that is why I am convinced that in the future, a new strategy for solving housing problems is necessary, and above all, we are seriously addressing some of the problems that we have been alerted to, and unfortunately, we are not moving matters forward for the better. I'm aware that the solution is not just to build new apartments. Far from it. The fact is, many apartments are empty and we don't know about them or are in a catastrophic state. That some businesses in local environments that should take care of the housing problems of their inhabitants simply do not do so. Many times there is profit at the forefront, including in the interest of public companies operating municipal land and so on. Not to mention companies that have gone from public to private and have reached, under some strange arrangement, a multi-annual contract for the management of municipal land. It is all right with - of course, if it is for the benefit of citizens and citizens and, of course, wider citizens and citizens. Then let's go. The rules clearly provide that the municipalities should publish an invitation to tender for the allocation of non-profit dwellings once a year. The Ombudsman states that between 1992 and 1996, this obligation was applied to so-called social housing. It also notes that there is no invitation to tender for several years, with individuals not even knowing in advance when a possible invitation to tender will be issued and thus not being able to apply in essence for any of the apartments. Since the State has left housing almost entirely to the municipalities, and has not introduced any mechanisms to promote the resolution of housing problems, opportunities for improving the housing situation of individuals are very limited. There are so many actual problems, not only those I have mentioned, but in fact those that people face every day and are reflected in practice. There are also problems that make it difficult and impossible to maintain a rental apartment, such as in the process of denationalisation. The fact that municipalities do not have housing units in their own housing fund to temporarily address the housing needs of socially disadvantaged persons is also provided for by housing law. We also have cases of municipalities assigning apartments without public invitations, cases where competent authorities place their responsibilities on each other, and people are mostly left to themselves when the housing problem is resolved. It is therefore essential for the Government to prepare, in the future, inter-sectorally coordinated legislative changes or measures to better address housing problems, in particular young families, older persons, socially disadvantaged groups and families that do not have an equal position in resolving housing situations. After all, it is the responsibility of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u80	Dear Mr President, distinguished Madam Guardian, ladies and gentlemen! I think it's right for the National Assembly to express an important recognition of the work of you and your team. I am grateful that you are setting an important mirror for the National Assembly and Slovenian society. Unfortunately, our homeland in this mirror is often not recognized as a tolerant, open, solidarity and legal country, a country with high security and human rights. It is therefore important that we understand your findings as a lesson and guidance for our further work and that we place the book on the Ombudsman's work in 2007 not only when we consider your report but also when we address a number of pressing issues, but also when we present our initiatives to the government and ministers. Allow me to focus on two important parts of your report. Work relationships first. They show a high increase of 18%. You note that these cases are, as a rule, a repetition of old violations and that you are getting an ever-increasing amount of anonymous applications, which also indicates increased uncertainty and the risk of job losses due to such applications. In this way, the instigators cited the non-payment of work done, overtime, the conclusion of civil contracts instead of contracts of employment, the actual suffering in the workplace, and in 2007 they also pointed out different forms of discrimination and the issue of under-unit freedom. The report also points to the issue of the conditions of the Labour Inspectorate. I believe that inefficient control in this area is, in fact, a reason for us to be trapped in the entire area by legally defined rights arising from working relationships. I therefore attach to the recommendations set out in the text. I think that the country needs to consider a better way of guaranteeing the rights of workers and workers, with a better and more effective system of control. In short, some of the problems of human rights protection in the field of justice. First, of course, the issue of trial within a reasonable time. I believe that at this point we are failing to understand Slovenia as a rule of law. You have also received the most initiatives from this area in 2007. In particular, there have been long-standing procedures in labour and social disputes for several years. I think it is correct to note that in these cases it is particularly important to have a swift decision by the judicial authorities, because in a few years' time the solution does not actually benefit the victims or replaces the damage caused by the infringements. In this regard, I think it is particularly important that, even though you do not identify a large number of these cases in 2007, I would like to draw attention to the possibility of free legal aid. I am convinced that this leverage can also, through cooperation with NGOs, which I personally consider to be good in Slovenia, contribute to resolving most of the disputes arising through free legal aid institutions and through mediation. Mediation has a number of advantages in this respect, as it contributes to increasing the acceptability of solutions. In itself, it represents the fact that all parties to the dispute accept the solution in question at the end and contributes significantly not only to some satisfaction in some legal dispute but also to personal reconciliation in each other's disputes. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for the National Assembly here to encourage the Ministry of Justice to give greater attention to this area and, in many cases, to ensure that free legal assistance and mediation institutions are also made more widely available. The realization of Slovenia's constitutional standard as a rule of law depends precisely on how we can protect our rights. And the right to legal protection is, of course, crucial here. Madam Guardian, I am sure that the National Assembly will also be in a new composition and significantly better and with greater obedience than has been followed up on your recommendations and conclusions so far. As it is said, I think it is time for us in Slovenia to end stories that have been drawn too long and that represent Slovenia's unacceptable departure from what we think of as some kind of civilizational acquisition that should be worth every modern, modern, democratic state. More than 60 years after the signing of the general declaration on human rights, it is therefore right to take a systematic approach to addressing all the warnings you are alerting, and to re-create Slovenia as an example of the realization of human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Don't you? Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support this report, because it is a victory, as it were, though someone will say it is a hate speech again. I think a person would think he wants to reintroduce himself to that article about the verbal delicacy we had in the former Yugoslavia. The greatest cost of democratic development is that we can say what we think and think in our own way. But not as conductive as some of the gentlemen of the former regime will direct us, or a lady of the former regime, or some of the young people who have studied on the former regime. The person would expect to receive protection from the Slovenian Ombudsman for Slovenian citizens and citizens. We've got a whole series of flossules to help, I don't know who else to help, so one wonders: Is it an institute of the Slovenian state, is it an institution of the United Nations, or is it an institution of some state, what I know of Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Burkina Faso or something like that, or is it actually some non-governmental organization that's stuck on a state nursery that draws on fantastic, beautiful incomes. This is also the main focus of this report. After all, the most important thing, as it turns out, is that the salary is too small. At this point, when the whole country is under pressure, the Ombudsman should give me more money, more people and possibly share money left and right to all those who take some time and come to Slovenia to essentially drain this poor country, even more so than has been squeezed by the current policy since 1992. I'm ashamed that we have such a guardian of human rights who doesn't care about children who care about patients. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u83	Mr. Jelinčič, you can be critical, just don't be insulting, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u84	Mr President, I'm not insulting, I'm talking about facts. If I had more time, I'd name the facts with names and surnames. That could still happen. Maybe I'll take my time, and I'll hand it over in writing, even though it doesn't make sense to me, because we're talking in the wall and nothing will change. Some will enjoy themselves, serve and take care of everything else, except Slovenian citizens and citizens. And that's the shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u86	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Well-known Lady Guardian of Human Rights! Well, hello, Madam Secretary! Hello, Members of Parliament and Members! I would like to point out that this was quite a comprehensive report you made. But I want to touch a few things because somehow I can't get past them. In the end, we talked today about the Roma, the Gypsies, and they end up saying that these are also "gipsies". Why are we dealing with them? All Prekmurks say we're Gypsies. Why are we talking about names? Let's arrange something to make these people as cultural as the Roma or the Gypsies in Prekmurje, then we won't have any problems with these people. Let's get them cultivated. The other thing that's very important is we're talking about prisoners. I think the prisoners who committed the crimes would like hotels with at least four stars. We need to be aware, these are people who have committed some kind of crime in one way or another. True, they must live decently, not in hotels. As with the employees themselves, I think we'd like to come as far as we can, so that every employee should look after one of the guards in this prison. I don't know where this country's gonna be taking money for this kind of work. The third thing that matters is also the judiciary. We're talking in court about some sentences, things. You know, in court we have to make wages even smaller than they have, and give them a variable part of the salary. Judges only advocate their demands and what their obligations are, and they forget that. Then it is also very important to hire, bullying people in jobs. It is true that such things happen, but the bullied comes from this very point of view, because you believe that employees start to bully their assumptions or say things in a variety of ways, and so there is also the bullying of employers to these employees. Employees would like such and different priorities, but they do not know what their requirements are or do not want to know what their requirements are. When they should know their demands, then, hand to heart, they go to the hospital and draw a month's tax money, and later, normally, the burden of the state. Why don't we draw money from health care, from doctors, they're actually sending non-existent people to the hospital stock. These are things that need to be clarified and know what this is all about. I would also like to stress the position on deleted persons. Look, there were eighteen thousand wiped out years ago, and now it's about twenty-four thousand wiped out. Yes, they are also new to these people, but I think that in fact the Municipality of Ljubljana has registered an export company - imports, because I would like to stress when they also found here that this tax is paid for 30 days, not 60 or 90 days, they have brought more people from the former Yugoslavia to Ljubljana. Do you think, as I heard the predecessor, that Ljubljana is no longer the capital of Slovenia, but Belgrade is the capital of Slovenia. Let's ask ourselves. I think there are enough clear criteria that we have somehow exhausted in these nine hours and that we have quite a few arguments why we oppose certain things and what we point out. It would therefore be wise to find consensus and compromise between all the coloured parties, but not to see when the government comes to people who have spoken in black for four years and now in white. I don't think that's good, let's find a consensus and talk about things that have weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This is quite extensive, and above all, the rich, agenda item, the Ombudsman's report. In fact, I am also a member of the Commission of the National Assembly on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and we have devoted quite a lot of time to the substantive debate there. However, I want to touch myself in these few minutes, as far as I have left, in fact one area, environment and space. People who are already settled in a certain area when they have to decide whether they will have public goods, highways, or the like through their own village are faced with a great dilemma as to how to make a decision. They need a road when they get a road, and they get something else besides the road. In dealing with the environment and the space and all that brings a certain object of national importance to this Slovenian space, I think it means degradation for a particular population where such an object is built. Some people who are somehow provided by the State with public economic services, including drinking water, are, unfortunately, still exposed, despite today’s technology and technology, to being left to their own place of residence, to survive with the healthy drinking water that they themselves have to supply. Either they're being transported by firefighters with a tanker, or they're carrying it from some abyss up the hill. This is where the guardian worked, too, and I hope that healthful drinking water will be provided to these people as soon as possible. Perhaps in these few seconds I should remind the guardian of what I do not think is right that she did when, in her role as guardian, she also appeared in court as an expert in her profession. This was a conflict of interest, and this is not a good example for her as a guardian. It would be appropriate to withdraw here, because it was obvious that this was also the media's conclusion that it was a conflict of interest, which, once again, I stress, is not exactly the case for the Ombudsman to be exposed in this way. These examples are not good, and these examples do not draw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There was a lot to hear about the report. I refer to the record on page 16, where the Ombudsman says in her opening statement: "Because it is subjective judgment, I invite readers to create their own opinions on the importance of individual findings when they read the whole report." And it is precisely the whole report that needs to be read so that a person can create an image of why an increase in cases detected by the Ombudsman in 2007 and when he reads the government's added response report, that it is also likely that some of the findings linked to the repeated violations of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms will not be avoided in the 2008 report. I wouldn't want to go down to the level of those who bid, which of human freedoms is important. What is essential to me is that human rights are universal, regardless of nationality and nationality, and that the level of awareness has also given rise to the desire to protect those rights that we have not considered recently. Finally, in the previous term, as a special item on the agenda, we considered the right to a healthy environment and there we dealt with the smell of turkey farms. You'd think that was a marginal problem. But at the time of addressing this problem, we have found that there is no legislation in the country, there are no norms, there are no standards for regulating the long-standing coexistence of economic activity and the desire to live in a healthy environment. This is said to raise new questions with repeated warnings, and now it is up to us to give more weight to them. I think it's important to read accurately and beautifully that the guardian has chosen cases involving more people. In doing so, it did not stop in the face of problems that concern particularly vulnerable groups. For a while now, I have been pointing out that, years ago, the Ombudsman's report was the first to point out the growing poverty in this country and the consequences of social exclusion for human dignity. And that went away, and there was always talk of a guardian or guardian dealing only with minority issues. But the basis for protecting human rights is that most people are aware of the responsibility for a minority. That a minority must be increasingly secure so that it can feel itself as an integral part of a larger community. I would like to touch myself because I would like to save some time for the amendments, just one more problem or one more fact. Under Article 45 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman has legal initiatives, changes initiatives, pardons, not for legal initiatives, but initiatives to amend laws, to regulate matters. I think any guardian has ever done this job. By the way, I have already pointed out that the Ombudsman has drawn attention to the inadequate regulation of the position of counsel or advocates of the principle of equal treatment or equal opportunity. On this issue, when an advocate should be treated as an independent institution, in order for those who come to this institution for help, with openness and confidence to turn to it, especially because the defender is dealing with those things in which the Ombudsman cannot always intervene, I am particularly concerned because two other advocates are now envisaged or mentioned in these recommendations: an advocate of children's rights and an advocate of the elderly. I think we need to think about how things are now. Again, with the Government's response report on 47 cases in the report, and 17 of them related to gender discrimination, it is more problematic for me that the only case of discrimination of such a broader importance, which concerns a very pressing family problem in 2007 which we have dealt with throughout the year, is that, in this case, the advocate has failed to reach a final decision on this case because it is a complex case and is now waiting, please, in this response report, it says, an expert opinion or assistance from abroad. One thing is whether we have practice in solving one or the other, another is what an advocate could do if she were to function as an independent institution. Here I should point out that, just before the expiry of the term of office, the previous government has appointed a new advocate and that an appeal has been lodged against this appointment. I wonder why it was necessary to so overlook the opinion of the entire opposition, the opinion of the Ombudsman and leave the legal solution as it is in the regulation of the Advocate, although even the European Union has warned us that we do not have some things well-managed, and we will be reminded of this account. There's a lot of problems that we're having here. In particular, I do not hope to share the teachings and to read to the Levite Ombudsman if he writes in his report that it is an eccentric violation of the authority and a decrease in the authority of the Constitutional Court, if the Government is also in the response report, and that is probably the result of the previous Government, washes the conscience of those who have been erased by saying that we have submitted the constitutional law and the Ombudsman says that the constitutional law is not the same, the Ombudsman says that a decision must be taken following the decision of the Constitutional Court. And, Mr. Gorenak, you can nod me for three more days, I'm obviously reading some things differently than you are reading. I don't think we can take responsibility for not having the right solutions deleted yet, because we opposed the constitutional law by the opposition Members and Members. The constitutional law, as prepared and transmitted and also subject to public representation of opinions, was a law whose sole purpose was to win the Constitutional Court's decision. But the truth is not blind, and I hope that the truth will also find justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, unfortunately, also time for replica is included in the reported time and the SDS has spent its reported time. I can't give you my word. Would you like a word with the government? Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Guardian with Fellow Members, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the coordinating ministry, I listened attentively to all your discussions as Minister. Believe me, both the Ombudsman's recommendations or warnings as well as your warnings, which have sometimes exceeded the current report and the reactions of the former government here today, will lead to the work of the current government. I fully agree with the observation or important comment made by Mr Tsukati when he said that this kind of debate is at the temple of democracy, in the National Assembly it is intended to sensitise politics and the public for the problems that are repeatedly heard from the report, banal, but for a small person these are huge problems. I add to this that, for each current government, such discussions are even more binding, such warnings than for other parliamentary and political public. Each current government has the tools it must use to remove obstacles to abolish the procedures to eliminate the legislative nonsense that ultimately and too often result in human rights abuses, which we all advocate to protect and depreciate in our best way. On behalf of the representatives and representatives of the government, I thank you for today's debate, and therefore I repeat my promise. However, we have decided that we will be representatives and representatives of ministries, which are repeatedly mentioned in this report and have an important duty to remove legislative obstacles, in the preparation of policies and laws, in order to explain to you today how we will approach this. For this reason, I would like to invite the Minister of the Interior, the representative of the Ministry of Labour, to join us with the Minister of Justice, finally with regard to the Ombudsman's comments as representative of the Ministry of Public Administration, to tell us what we will do in this area so that the violations detected by the Ombudsman will be resolved as quickly as possible and as we have committed ourselves. And finally, citizens and citizens of the current government, of course, expect this. Madam Vice President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to hear from you in a row with my contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Minister Katarina Kresal has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Honourable Guardians, both Deputys! One of the issues which the Ombudsman draws attention to in the report, which today has been quite a bit of a talk, is certainly also the issue of so-called deleted. This shameful problem, which we have not been able to resolve in 17 years, was realized by this coalition, which has entered into its coalition agreement to comply with the constitutional decision. As stated in the Constitutional Court's decision, we will begin to issue supplementary decisions for that part of the deleted, which have already been settled or permanent residence, with which we will regulate their status since 1992. In order to regulate the status for those who do not have citizenship today, or permanent residence, we will draw up a special law. The draft provides for individual treatment to obtain status and will not grant either citizenship or compensation to anyone. The text is not yet complete. We'll be sending him into the procedure in the next few months. In preparing, we also relied on external experts, including another interested public. Thus, it is in the very process of drafting the law of several legal professionals, as well as NGOs, who have been dealing with this problem for many years. In doing so, I would also like to say that we have ordered the competent services to prepare a comprehensive statistical review of the deleted, i.e. those definitive numbers they hold. It follows from the records that a total of 25,671 persons registered on 24 January 2009 are 26 persons. 2. In the Republic of Slovenia, the application of Article 81 of the Aliens Act ceased to apply. For example, five thousand and six hundred and thirty minors and ten thousand and eighty - six hundred and ninety persons of the female sex were wiped out. It's just for understanding. With regard to the above data, we explain that we have also obtained information from the current analysis, as mentioned above, that it has 24 on the day. 1 2009 and 7,899 persons who were 26. 2. 1992 admitted to Slovenian citizenship, registered termination of application of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia of 26. 2. 1992. Those persons were admitted to Slovenian citizenship after 26. 2. 1992 or is and after that date was first granted a residence permit and later a citizenship. To date, however, the analyses of persons who have already had citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia following the analysis have never been taken into account as persons who have ceased to apply for permanent residence. So they weren't misled in this squina wiped out. As today's debate has also shown that among some Members, there is still a fundamental misunderstanding of the problem of the deleted, I stress that by regulating the status deleted, I will not only grant citizenship and we will not pay compensation to them. We will not even determine the existence or legal basis of compensation. With the additional decisions we will begin to issue, we will re-establish the status of people who already have citizenship or who already reside in Slovenia. By implementing the Constitutional Court decision on deleted, we will thus fulfil our constitutional and moral obligation to the people who have been violated by fundamental human rights. Slovenia already has a historical drama that has never experienced a real epilogue. And these are post-war killings. It is our responsibility not to leave a new burden on new generations. Sometimes all you have to do is do what's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice has the floor, Mr. Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened carefully to the debate on human rights and the situation in this area in the Republic of Slovenia. And despite the fact that we are talking about the analysis made by the Ombudsman with colleagues in 2007, a number of issues remain valid today. We are aware of this, and in the justice ministry, we have approached these issues with a very high degree of seriousness, which are being addressed by this report. We have also decided that, in a direct discussion with the Ombudsman, we are trying to clarify open issues, clarify plans and strategies in this area in order to achieve a significant shift in the field of human rights protection. The problem with human rights is that, in principle, we all agree on the importance of human rights, the importance of ensuring and protecting and respecting human rights. Of course, the problem is that this general consensus often disappears quickly when a particular problem arises. And some of these specific problems also point to this report, where it appears that this general consensus is no longer as firm as it may seem. For the field of justice, this report by the Ombudsman reveals a number of problems. It is impossible in this response to this report to cover everything and all the questions. It is also impossible to try to give an appropriate explanation of the aspects that you, honourable Members or Members have opened in today's debate. Without ranking by meaning, however, I would like to highlight some plans of the Ministry of Justice, which can also be seen as a response to this report. When I first address the issues of judicial backlogs, which are certainly the general consensus that this remains a major problem in the Republic of Slovenia, let me explain that the Ministry of Justice plans to upgrade all measures taken so far in this area aimed at first reducing and then perhaps also eliminating judicial backlogs. These measures are numerous, affect practically all areas and range from the revision of the procedural rules. For example, if you have looked at the 2009 Government's legislative programme for the area of justice, you can find a series of plans for the revision of procedural rules in this programme. In particular, I have in mind a re-implementation here. According to statistics, according to official statistics enforcement is far the biggest problem in the Slovenian judiciary. Unfortunately, there are also unofficial statistics that reveal that the problem is even worse than official statistics show. For this reason, at the Ministry of Justice, we have decided to consider this area a priority, and we are now directing all available capacities to renovate this process. I'm not going here in detail. However, I would like to clarify that the recast enforcement procedure will certainly pursue the objective of substantially shortening this procedure, that enforcement will no longer be justice in truth, that the number of remedies available to debtors to delay or at least delay the fulfilment of an obligation, which is, in other words, also within the jurisdiction of a judicial decision, will be substantially reduced. In short, this process will be simplified. At the same time, we would like to support enforcement with further information support. You know that in one part this information support is already working. This is an enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument. Here, too, the results show that there is a significant shift. Now there's another important part. In other areas of judicial backlogs, such as labour and social disputes have been mentioned, where it is simply impossible to say otherwise than deeply agree with the opinion of those who feel that there is no point in resolving labour disputes in the courts for years. Such judicial protection is not an effective remedy. It's just court-martialed paperwork. In this respect, we plan to amend the procedural rules mainly in this direction in order to regulate the procedure before the judicial dispute referred to in this title arises, in order to re-establish the preparatory phase of the procedure. We don't even have one in Slovenia right now. Experience shows that, in fact, this is the most important phase of the procedure where many open issues are clarified and may be resolved, and only if it is indeed a matter of urgency is moved to the stage of the main hearing. At the same time, of course, we want to, and this is also pointed out by the Ombudsman, to link alternative dispute resolution with judicial proceedings. Several debaters mentioned the mediation today. Perhaps this is now particularly popular because there is a possibility that even such a serious dispute as the border dispute with Croatia could be resolved by this procedure. The Ministry of Justice has a very ambitious plan here: to link alternative procedures with the courts in a way that will make it a mandatory business function of the court, as in some countries where judicial systems are truly effective, and, on the other hand, we want to provide adequate capacity for the conduct of these proceedings before legal disputes even arise. Here we now have one large deficit, an offer, I will say, on the open market is relatively weak and there will also be a need for assistance from the state. To this end, we have also organized the operation of certain services differently at the Ministry itself. I have appointed a special national co-ordinator for alternative dispute resolution, a judge appointed to the Ministry, whose exclusive task will be to serve to further develop and promote these procedures. To this end, we will also develop a specific strategy and present it appropriately in the National Assembly. As far as the problems related to prisoners and guards are concerned, both categories have been repeatedly exposed today, in fact, the situation may be the most critical moment due mainly to the lack of spatial capacity, on the one hand, which, of course, affects the provision of adequate prisoners' rights and, on the other hand, to the lack of, in particular, the human resources capacity of the administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Today, I will not repeat what was said yesterday in response to the questions raised by Members in this regard. I can only commit once again that the Ministry of Justice will strive to ensure that this situation is properly taken into account in the preparation of the 2009 budget rebalancing. This means that additional funds are provided, so that employees can be paid and additional employment is made available and, of course, also for material costs in order to provide adequate equipment. As far as the construction of prison facilities is concerned, we are planning to implement a project in a short time, which will allow the capacity of prisons to be substantially expanded to the Age. They're supposed to get 174 beds, and in this way, at least in this complex, they solve the spatial problem. This is not yet a comprehensive solution because we still have the problem of Ljubljana. The Ombudsman rightly warns, and this has been the case for some time now, these warnings reiterate the need to find a solution regarding health care or hospital care for persons in need of the assistance of psychiatrists and other specialists. We do not yet have a systemic solution here, and the Ministry of Justice will be associated in this area with the Ministry of Health, which is formally the one that decides which complex these services will be provided to improve the situation in this area. A very important category, which is justified under the supervision of the guardian and all of us, are children. I can only repeat what I have said on several occasions in this place, that the Ministry of Justice will ensure that there will be specialised departments in this mandate to address family issues. The first step was to allow the courts to form these departments, but we are still far from wishing, far from specialized family courts. To this end, we have already appointed an expert group at the Ministry of Justice, we have also connected with experts from abroad, we are preparing an important project in this area, which will include everything from education, training, policy advice on family issues, exchange of experience. We will connect with those countries that are very much ahead of us in this area. Not many of these countries are interesting. But those who are have this strategy designed. And Slovenia can learn a lot, but this does not mean that we will copy other models, we will have to adapt solutions to our needs and expectations, but we can make it very easy and also shorten the period within which this initiative could be implemented. These family courts are supposed to work in a way that allows all problems of one family to be dealt with in one place, whether it is domestic sexual violence or the divorce of a marriage in which children are born, or whether it is any other matter that must be the subject of judgment or consideration in court. In short, in one place after a specialised judge and with the assistance of an appropriate professional staff. The issue of judicial experts was also raised in the debate. As Minister himself in this short term, I have already received several complaints and information in this area that there may even be a systemic problem. We will therefore see what we can do in this regard when preparing amendments to the Law on Courts, which we plan for a period, say, month, month and half at the Ministry. The lawyers were mentioned. I can already point out here that the Ministry of Justice is already preparing a draft amendment to the Law on Justice. This draft will provide for a thorough revision of the chapter on the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, including by taking into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman in order to ensure that these procedures are more effective. I just signed a letter today asking the Ombudsman to give an opinion on the text of this draft. This high assembly can expect a change, i.e. a new law in the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. In this relatively short time, given the extent of the problems that exist in terms of the protection of human rights in the field of justice, I have not been able to replicate all the implementations that we have heard today, and, of course, I am available to do so if you think that any further questions need to be further highlighted so that I can do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ambassadors and Members, representatives of the Office of the Ombudsman! At the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have thoroughly examined the annual report and, if possible, we will take all these problems into account in the preparation of the new legislative acts that we have planned for the next period. Perhaps in the next few minutes, we will focus on the most pressing issues that have been raised, and we will present what solutions we will propose in the coming months. The report on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs mainly highlights the prevention of domestic violence, the prevention of discrimination based on disability, the area of social protection, the problem of increasing poverty and personal distress, the area of labour relations, pension and disability insurance, the protection of children, older and other vulnerable groups and the special protection of children in the media. If I briefly stop at each of these points, I could say at the first point, that is, preventing domestic violence, that last year was a long-awaited and needed law on the prevention of violence. On the basis of this law, a resolution that we are currently coordinating with non-governmental organisations is now in preparation. On this basis, the Action Plan will also be adopted and protocols for dealing with domestic violence will also be drawn up. The legislation in this area is somehow ready. At the same time, it should be stressed that legislation alone will not solve this serious problem, but, as the report has repeatedly pointed out, it is necessary to reach a broader social consensus on zero tolerance to domestic violence. The next area is the area of prevention of discrimination based on disability. In this area, it might point out that in Slovenia we have a rather exemplary area of disability protection, that many laws cover the specific rights of persons with disabilities, both in the fields of employment and work, healthcare, parental protection and family protection, education and education, many facilitations and exemptions, as well as the organisation of disability organisations. Of course, this does not mean that everything is ideal. We agree with the comments of both LDS Members, in particular Mr Saiovic, who highlighted the problem of specific categories that are less treated equally within this category. In this context, we also have in the next year's normative work programme a law on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities, which will make an important contribution to equality in this area. Then there's the third area, the area of social protection. This is a very broad area and the report actually has a large number of cases in this area, which concern both the organisation of the work of public social institutions, the quality of these services provided by these institutions, and also the issue of accessibility to these services. The Ministry will examine and take into account all proposals, as some problems arise symptomatically and are already more systemic in nature. In particular, special attention will be given. In the coming year there is also a new law on social security, which will also include reform of social work centres. In doing so, we will want to pursue objectives such as higher quality of services, greater integration with local organisations and NGOs in addressing these greatest social pressures of individuals. In addition, some cases of abuse or misconduct of professional services need to be highlighted. We will probably never prevent this, but it is important that we have mechanisms in place to control and prevent such acts. In this regard, the problem must be highlighted, as the report points out, by the insufficient number of social security inspectors, namely the area of social inspection, for the field of employment relations, where the Ombudsman also sees an increase in violations in this area and the issue of the number of employees at the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate. Maybe it's just a matter of protecting older people, institutional protection. We also have in our proposal a long-awaited law on long-term care and care that will solve the biggest problems in this area. Then the next important area is the area of increasing poverty and social exclusion among the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and several times the problem of inadequately estimated minimum costs needed for the survival of individuals. The Ministry is aware of these issues. The first thing on this path is to assess the minimum cost of living, to re-evaluate these minimum cost of living and then, on this basis, to prepare legislation governing these benefits, i.e. monetary, social assistance aimed at providing a social minimum for each individual or family. At the same time, we must not forget that it is necessary to allow these individuals to be actively involved in social processes, in broader social processes, not just in the labour market, and that these positive discrimination measures should actually enable them to do so. We also agree with the growing problem of poverty among employees. In this direction, our attempt to create new legislation in the field of minimum wage would also go, in particular in this direction, so that the minimum wage would actually be a minimum payment for the simplest forms of work. We must, of course, reach agreement with the social partners. The area of employment relations is in fact an area where there is a greater number of infringements from year to year. In this area, we would say that there have been several legislative changes to the basic law itself, namely, the Labour Relations Act, which has been adopted, but as in other areas, there is a problem that there are rights in the law, which is one thing, and then the real realization of these rights in practice and in this connection the importance of particularly inspection controls, which must be achieved that these rights, which are written down, are also actually feasible. As regards the long-term administrative procedures in the area of pension and disability insurance, which have been specifically exposed in the Ombudsman's report, we could say that in the process of modernising this system, we will try to pursue the objective of maximum transparency of the system itself while at the same time achieving that these administrative procedures are as short as possible and that individuals can obtain this right as soon as possible. In the area of child protection, a family code is being prepared or is a matter of intersectoral coordination, coordination with the professional public. In view of the work plan, it is expected to be discussed in September of this year in the Government. This family code is hard to expect, and it is intended to solve the biggest problems regarding the personal protection of children and families. In addition, the Ministry is preparing some other laws dealing indirectly with the problems raised in the report. If I mention only some of the more important, this Employment and Insurance Act may be possible in the case of unemployment, particularly in relation to those passive records of unemployed persons. Then the issue of scholarship policy and the issue of censorship and single parent families or eligibility for these state scholarships for the most vulnerable categories and this very important and expected law on long-term care and care insurance. If I finish, I hope that the next report will not be so critical of our area. Of course, we are not pretending that there will still be things, but I want things to move for the better and that the next report will see this shift for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Pučnik Rudl, Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Equal Opportunities. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u100	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary for Human Rights, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the Equal Opportunities Office, we carefully examined the Ombudsman's report, especially in the work on discrimination. The Ombudsman's report is critical to the protection mechanisms which are competent to identify and prevent discrimination. The acquisition of the amendments to the ZUNEO for 2007 laid down that the applicant shall carry out professional and organisational tasks in dealing with cases of discrimination independently, impartially and independently from the instructions of the President or the President of the Office for Equal Opportunities. Nevertheless, the stand-alone status of the Advocate remains questionable as the Advocate is bound in all other respects to the Office for Equal Opportunities. Therefore, at the Office for Equal Opportunities, we are aware that the status of advocate of the principle of equality should be further improved by the example of many European Union countries. We are also reminded of this by other institutions besides the Ombudsman. Finally, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women on the 4th Periodic Report on the Implementation of the Convention in Slovenia. The Committee recommended that the Government consider putting forward an advocate or advocate of equal opportunities for women and men with independent status and respective tasks and powers. At the time of its consideration of the Ombudsman's 2007 report, the Government recommended that it examine the appropriateness of the legal arrangements for the position of the Advocate or Advocate and the financial basis for the functioning of this institution and propose any amendments. In line with all these recommendations, we have prepared an analysis of the organisation of similar institutions in the countries of the European Union at the Office for Equal Opportunities and have prepared proposals for possible solutions for Slovenia, which we will soon send to the Intersectoral Coordination. We will also invite the Ombudsman to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We've heard presentations of the government's positions. Guardian of Human Rights, would you like a word? Excuse me, Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I allowed my colleagues to talk in front of me after the bonton. However, I would like to present the part addressed by the Ombudsman as a recommendation or an obvious part of the Ministry of Public Administration, which, according to its tasks, is also entrusted at vertical level with the preparation of system tools for better work of the ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Today, it has also been a recommendation between Members and Members that we should, however, try to reach out to the best practices of government representatives and representatives and ensure the participation of interested professionals, civil society and NGOs in the preparation of regulations. Of course, the Ombudsman goes a long way in her recommendation, since she has assured all current governments that with the tools available to the current governments to ensure public participation in the drafting of regulations they will not bear fruit. This institution and this standard are not being practiced today in a way that would also ensure a constitutionally guaranteed standard, namely that the public has the right to participate in the drafting of regulations through its elected and other political representatives. Of course, we need to know that the government is being assessed today in a way that accepts debt, a work plan, adopts a plan where it can see that it will adopt many laws, that it will effectively interfere in life in a regulatory sense and thus ensure a better life. And of course, this way is present all the time, from independence on. First, of course, it was possible to justify such conduct by all the current governments. In the wake of independence, it was necessary to establish a state apparatus and, in the process of approaching European integration, to adopt a large, large number of regulations which meant that we were adapting to the standards of the European Union. This way he allowed red tape at government and ministerial level to adopt and prepare laws, which is particularly important, by means of a rapid procedure. All procedures have been necessary and such practices continue to mean that any public means an obstacle to the drafting of a regulation, if you are used to writing it at the Ministry itself, quickly and so on. However, in the Slovenian environment and indisputably in the national environment of the Member States of the European Union, it has already been undisputedly in the year 2000 that such a way of regulation, excessive regulation of the adoption of laws without adequate analysis, the effects of regulations, without providing an interested civil, professional, political public with the process of policy making itself, means that citizens and citizens feel that because of this excessive regulation they no longer know what the state requires of them. On the other hand, we fail to ensure the protection and control of the implementation of such diverse, mutually-uncoordinated rules, many sub-legislative acts, and, on the other hand, of course, it is obvious that our inspection services are also ineffective. As we go today to look at the number of offences that criminal authorities and inspectors are supposed to oversee, we see that tens of thousands of acts of individuals and economic operators are known to be committed by various inspection services. The knowledge that it is impossible to effectively monitor all of this is on the spot, and there is also evidence in the report that inspection services are ineffective, in fact responding in a way that they have been running procedures for too long, completely on the spot. And it does not appear that the Government would have in hand a tool where human resources could strengthen inspection services so as to be able to monitor all acts which are criminalized and which need to be monitored. Thus, the ambition of this government and, of course, we will ask Members and Members for important cooperation and ask for political support, whether it is coalition or opposition Members, because these tools and those systems that we have set ourselves to incorporate into the government's regulatory system will necessarily have an impact on better transcripts and will therefore benefit all the current governments that will also use these systems in the future. In particular, the recommendations and analyses carried out in the Slovenian space are made. This is the Sigma report that reviewed how we successfully use all modern institutes to prepare good regulations and clear regulations in Slovenia. Who is interested is extremely instructive and this 2007 report from Sigma shows that in Slovenia these modern tools, if we already have them at the level of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and as recommendations for the work of individual ministers as guides for inviting the public concerned to participate in the preparation of policies, that all of these measures at this regulatory level have not been taken simply by what we say today in terms of how we express ourselves in the area of how our rules are being adopted to deal with the financial crisis. So far, nothing has actually taken place. A regulation is still being drawn up, perhaps three or five days should be taken into account in an expert debate, not any comments, not professional, not political or public interest. When such a provision comes to Parliament on the legislative bench, this rule is in the domain of Members and Members, and this participation of interested public is already delayed in the policy-making process. So this first part requires a really, really new approach. In this resolution on good legislative policy, which we will put in the National Assembly this year, and I hope, earlier in the general debate, we will be able to reach a political consensus on the necessary new approach to better regulation and I hope that we will receive support from all of you at the Ministry of Public Administration. It is important to know that with these measures we will propose, the current Government's action is important to self-limits. It puts itself on the path of working urgently with the interested professional, political public, NGOs and so on. Not only does he invite them to discuss policies in an area under a regulation, but he gives them sufficient time, even when the regulation has been drawn up somewhere, to give them at least 30 days to comment on the draft regulation. Not only do they make comments. The commitment we will make in the current Government is that these comments will have to be answered to the public. This process is legalized in a number of old democracies. With this resolution and the methodology that we will present in this regard, we hope that we will follow these modern guidelines and that the law on public participation will not have to be adopted. However, I promise that if the current Government, despite this resolution and despite the methodology that we have already prepared, will not, as the previous governments have not done so as they have committed themselves, we will also draw up a law on public participation in the drafting of regulations during this mandate. However, it is not just public participation in the drafting of regulations that is missing and which would significantly democratise this process of policy-making. We have decided that we will try this year as the Government in the policy-making process all the necessary practices that ultimately lead to the preparation of a good regulation will also be achieved through the preparation of a methodology for carrying out an impact assessment. This methodology, known as RIA, is more than already used in the European space. The European Commission is not fully responsible for the adoption of an individual regulation until the results are known, the assessment of the impact of the current regulations in a particular area and also of what is being prepared as a new policy that is expected to work better in an individual field. Simplifying the legislation means that when we go into the preparation of the new regulation, we will try to review all the opaque legislation. Both laws and regulations that today constitute regulation of a particular area. We often do not even realize that there are a lot of sub-legislative rules which in this area constitute impreciseness, and thus often cause problems to individual workers and employees in administrative units, and sometimes there are different practices on the surfaces of administrations that have direct contact with citizens who want some rights to be met, but because of imprudent rules, there are sometimes different practices, which of course is not good. After that, it also removes administrative barriers, which are being carried out today as an important task at the Ministry of Public Administration, which reviews all the regulations coming to the Government. This mechanism for removing administrative barriers developed here will be carried out in the process of assessing the effects of the regulations further through the education of officials at each ministry when assessing the legislation of each ministry. Here, lastly, we have prepared, in addition to the draft resolution, the methodology, and we believe that we will be able to implement these commitments by modifying the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in our work, then instruction 10, then preparing the methodology, and also by means of an information system called the legislative procedure, but it is necessary to know that this is the procedure for preparing the regulation until the arrival of Parliament, where the legislative procedure is already well published and this part is being prepared in cooperation with the Government Office of Law. This will allow, all ministries involved in the drafting and monitoring process, to operate in a uniform manner and to be able to monitor each regulation from planning, from objectives in each area to adoption and termination. In short, the whole cycle of regulations is about regulations that will then go to the National Assembly, as well as regulations and regulations that are within the power of the Government, that is, regulations and regulations. At all stages, individual stakeholders will also be able to enter through the information technology system. In 2009, the government will prepare all these mechanisms and, with the support of, hopefully, the political public, significantly limit itself in the regulatory process. We hope, Commissioner, that the 2010 report will not be necessary in this direction, but if it does, we also have a commitment in the Coalition Treaty to adopt a law on ensuring public participation in the drafting of regulations during the term of office of this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. When I listened to you, I allowed myself to think that we also probably want Members and Members to have more normal legislative procedures, professional and civil public participation and better quality laws. If that's true, we'll all be happy. Any other representatives of the Ministry want to talk? If not, I give the floor to Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u104	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for the substantive rich debate on the Ombudsman's report. I am pleased that most Members know the importance and tasks of the Ombudsman and that they will be able to make as many recommendations as possible during their term of office. Some of these things have already begun to be cleared with a new government team at working meetings with ministers. We have also had working meetings with ministers of the previous government, and so the way we work remains similar. However, I wish that somehow the obedience to human rights would be such that as many recommendations as possible could be made. Nevertheless, it seems to me that all Members do not yet know the full powers of the Ombudsman. It is a matter of monitoring the relationship between an individual and a country and its institutions. Therefore, both the initiatives of individuals and the opinion of the Ombudsman are based on this relationship. The way it works is to take initiatives from an individual, then we process them, we have our own initiatives, but we cannot and must not replace this relationship. It is understandable, therefore, that much of what I have been told here today cannot and cannot be done by the guardian. The eyewitnesses who went to my account should go to other addresses by content. As regards the repetition of certain warnings, as well as the procedures to be carried out by other national authorities. That's what I warned you about in my report. By the way, for those who have this report too long, we have also prepared a shorter version available on our website. This one is translated into English. And for those of you who discovered this, the so-called crop leaf was available, but I think you've mostly just gone through the long version and I think it's seen from most of the discussions. With regard to the evidence that the Ombudsman is not cooperating with NGOs, I must say the following with determination. This observation is unfair, unfair, and quite the opposite. In my mandate, we have very well-organized cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Every month we have an open day for a certain group of NGOs with which we work together, I will say, initiatives that are our own, or we will encourage these NGOs to give them initiatives that we can then deal with. Moreover, our cooperation with non-governmental organisations is so good that we have been proposed for the prize awarded by the United Nations Organization for cooperation between governmental and non-governmental organisations. This is the scope of implementation of the optional protocol law relating to the supervision of institutions in which people are restricted to freedom of movement. I've listened to evidence before about how I stand up for prisoners. Then I have to say the following. It's my marriage duty. Slovenia is a signatory to the Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Cruel Treatment. Under this Convention, it has also adopted an optional protocol law and this must be implemented by the Ombudsman. If we report prisoners, if we find out what the situation is, and so far they have never been denied by the Ministry, even in the previous government, then know that we are doing our duty. There's something else I'd like to say about healthcare. It is true that the 2007 report did not mention much, but it does not mean that it has been overemphasized, and I think this is more fair. This year, as we have heard, we have been involved in the drafting of legislation in this area. However, we are aware, and it is very clear that the complaint routes are not working enough. We are also afraid that this new law will not, or in a short time, show the effect that better supervision will have to be agreed with the Ministry, both on the functioning of those who provide health services and on administrative matters within health institutions. So there's still a lot of work to be done here. For those who have told us that we are dealing with chickens from which the stench is spreading, I would like to say that the area of stench is poorly regulated both in Slovenia and in most European countries, and that all European countries are trying to settle the issue. There is a problem that we do not know the smell well enough to measure, and what is disturbing to someone else may be completely irrelevant. However, progress has already been made in this area, and also in the Ministry of Environment and Space, they are aware that this will need to be regulated by law. These comments and initiatives are not so small. Just because people wanted us to respond to their hardships, we put the stinking area in our report. There's something else I'd like to mention. With the many praises that have been given, I must admit, I must hear nicely, not only because of me, but because of all my fellow workers who are working so hard and so hard, with all these praises, of course, it is also necessary to listen to criticism. Some of them are also justified. I don't deny it. However, I would like to say that all the work that we have done and that we are doing, not only in this report, is the work of the 40 people. It's gone. We can't do this anymore. I don't know if we still have a job or a body in this country that works with so many employees in so many areas and would all be criticised to say that there is no substantive error in the report. All our findings are thoroughly verified and recorded in such a way that they would not be offensive to those who have been criticized. When we go to the extremes to find individual guardians, which has been very well-founded today, I would also like to join the opening of this topic myself. At the final stage, I would also need a guardian myself at times, when the media are very unjustifiably getting me personally or at the institution I run and not giving me the opportunity to make amends. And in the final stage, I'm the only person in Slovenia who doesn't have my own guardian. Nor do I know who to complain to about my unfair, unfair conduct when I appeared as an expert in court. I must say, there was nothing wrong with this matter. At the beginning of my operation, I have made this or I can perform as an expert clear to the competent authority, which has also given me an appropriate principled opinion. In a specific case that I am aware of, however, it was that I defended my expert opinion, which I made during the time that no one else in this country has ever dreamed of ever becoming a guardian. And by saying what I wrote so many years ago, of course, there is no conflict of interest. And that. Before I went to court, I looked into whether any of the parties were instigators in our institution. No name came up that way. So much for explaining my work, and once again thank all the debaters for today's fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the general debate on the 2007 report of the Ombudsman. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled to the draft report of the parent working body to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 27 January 2009. We are moving on to the first chapter and putting forward the first amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to the first chapter. Anybody want a word? Please, Minister Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. In view of my previous debate, I believe that by adopting the amendment to the basic text that the Government should ensure the participation of the interested and the professional public in the drafting of the regulations, the adopted referral will correspond to the conduct of the Government in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since there is no further discussion, I turn to the debate on the text of point 5 of Chapter 1. Mrs. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you. In fact, the proposed amendment is more binding than the recommendation adopted by the Commission. We believe that it is right, in view of all the warnings we have been accompanied in the reports by failure to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions, to use a dictatorship here to "ensure the consistent implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions". However, I must say that this amendment actually came about when we had another text in the report that did not talk about who should be the one to ensure the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But we still advocate this stronger recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I've seen hands before, so I'm opening applications for debate. Anyone who wants to discuss it should sign up. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Mr. Gorenak, there is no time for discussion. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much. This amendment is a logical response to the Commission's decision on petitions and human rights, which highlighted the repetitive theme, 16-year-old theme [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Isn't that the amendment? Then I say goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u111	We are discussing, Mr Magajna, the second amendment to chapter 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u112	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u114	You may even be aware of the indication when you said we were discussing the fifth. I wanted to discuss this supplement. I do not think it is possible to discuss in the National Assembly whether or not the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be consistently respected. Whether the authorities are obliged to respect and implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court - of course they are. I think it is quite unfair that some questions have been tried on the Commission to the extent that they can also be discussed, whether the National Assembly should do something or not. Whether those organs that must do so should do so or not. That is why I think it is our duty to follow these recommendations in fact, to implement consistently the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as well as the amendment. And that's because time is running out, so much more for the next amendment, which is to chapter 5 under number 1. I was a little concerned about what the nanny said in the end that sometimes she felt like she would need a guardian herself so that she would not be allowed to do some things that were her jurisdiction. I myself believe that this amendment should also be accepted as an introduction to the adoption of the next amendments, which are more detailed on certain issues and are an item that we are considering today or is the result of a logical recommendation and expectations. As I say, I will support both this amendment and all the other amendments because time is running out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Yuri. I will ask others, just please, once they are asked to apply, all those who intend to discuss the amendment report not to renew this process. Please, who wants to sign up for the debate. Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman. Apologize for this little misunderstanding. I think I can speak on behalf of all Social Democrats and Democrats, and I can say that this amendment is fully in line with our conviction. Today, after this long debate, which, unfortunately, has often fallen to the level of the lowest demagogization and not the misunderstanding of the role of the Ombudsman, but the lack of understanding of human rights has also led us to wonder whether some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which actually constitute a legal basis, will be enforced. There's no doubt about that. We Social Democrats have already said this, and we will consistently implement the Constitutional Court's decision. That's what we're gonna do this time. That is why this amendment is fully in place and, of course, it is worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the second amendment. We're going to chapter five. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 5. Madam Minister Kresalov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I will say the following in support of the proposed amendment. The constitutional law regulating the way in which the Constitutional Court’s decision is enforced is, in itself, an unusual type of legal act for modern legal, constitutional and democratic states. It is legally possible, of course, to resolve some important legal issues, but not as a means of bypassing the decision of the highest judicial authority in the rule of law, but even less to regulate matters that would restrict human rights. We do not know such a case in European practice. In a specific case, it would be the adoption of a constitutional law which would regulate the problem of deleted persons in a manner that is not in accordance with the Constitutional Court's determination, namely, the abuse and Circumstance of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Such a position would also constitute a dangerous precedent for the future of Slovenia as a rule of law. We have heard a great deal about this today. In this respect, we stress that, according to the expert opinion, it is not certain that the Constitutional Court should not judge the constitutionality of such a constitutional law. In the face of all the moral and legal dilemmas that such a law would cause, there is therefore still a danger of getting caught up in a new vicious circle of constitutional judgements and political calculations and demagogies. The victims of this would be people who, contrary to the Constitution of Slovenia, have lost their status and would be a victim of the rule of law in the long run. It would therefore be legally correct to simply adopt a constitutional law that would fully follow the Constitutional Court's decision. There is no need, however, for us to have constitutional decisions and we are obliged to resolve these issues by directly enforcing the decisions of this Constitutional Court and by adopting the ordinary law. It is not to be forgotten that the adoption of a constitutional law that would oppose the Constitutional Court's decision in a case where the State has not complied with the Constitutional Court's decision for more than five years, where respect for human rights is required by a two-thirds majority of Members when actions against the Republic of Slovenia are pending before the European Court of Human Rights and, like that, a legally, democratically and morally incorrect act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would any of the Members or Members like to discuss it? Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you. Regardless of what the Commission has adopted, we have justifiably reasoned that when we have tabled these amendments on the recommendation, this is precisely because the Commission, as a fifth recommendation, has requested that the Constitutional Court's decisions be respected. But I will not now give any detailed reasons why I oppose the constitutional law on deleted persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u122	Respectable assembly, colleagues and colleagues! I accidentally made a call to the previous 5th point, not to the fifth chapter, but it is also related to this topic. It is a matter of consistent respect for constitutional provisions. The Constitutional Court also made it very clear and clear that 26.2.1992 was unlawfully deleted from the register by so many and so many people. As a result of this lost status, it must be said that, in the media and in political rhetoric, there is a consistent attempt to communicate with the concept of civil rights, the concept of the category of acquisition of citizenship and permanent residence, but this is two very different procedures. The implementation of the Constitution and the provisions of the Constitutional Court should be our legal and moral imperative. What we received from the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights was a decision that arose in a situation where there were five members of the Commission in the Chamber, but it was from 3 to 2. The separate opinion did not hold back the so-called majority opinion in this opinion. With all this story of who they were erased, whether they were people who were deceived, or whether they were sovereign people who were cultivating some nostalgia to Yugoslavia, or whether they were speculators, whenever we are as ethical, we don't throw all people in the same basket. At the same time, colleagues from the opposite side of the hall would ask who is to blame for 16 years of talking about this. Why are we talking? Is this guilt erased? Did the then minister, the chief of government, first the minister, make a legal error? Have you ever called or demanded their personal responsibility? You say that the present generation has paid for the consequences of what they have done erased. Who has committed this illegal act that we are now talking about for 16 years? Will these people once bear responsibility, perhaps not materially, but at least morally?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u124	Your Honor! We also support this amendment in Zares, because we are among the proponents and I would also like to support the Minister's explanation, which has made it very clear what needs to be done. We also know that the constitutional law is just a trick to "past" the constitutional decisions to be a way of playing the rule of law, so the only sensible approach we are proposing with this amendment, which is part of such a report as we have had the opportunity to discuss and discuss here today. In fact, the story of the deleted may finally end in this mandate, as we are also finally dealing with the responsible Government, with the responsible ministers, who have made it very clear that we will implement these constitutional decisions and also regulate the status of those deleted who do not have the conditions to regulate the status directly with the decisions. This is the right approach, this is the rule of law approach. If I may allow myself to mention only a personal anecdotes. My mother would have been erased because she was born two kilometers away from the border if she had not arranged with her brother in time, after we had learned what to do for her. It seemed logical to us at that time that all those citizens would be given an orderly status and that older people could not know that. And what happened happened. Now's a good time. I believe that we will finally conclude this chapter with this government and that we will normally breathe, European, we will no longer be targets of such or other criticisms. We will just join those countries that put a lot on the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the amendment. We are moving on to chapter 7 of the Recommendation. I am putting forward the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter 7. Anybody want to talk? I don't see any wishes, so I'm closing the debate on the amendment. I am putting to the debate the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 7. I'm asking you to sign up. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate the third amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 7. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support the amendment, which speaks of the future preparation by the Government of cross-cutting legislative changes or measures to better address housing problems, in particular young families, older persons, socially disadvantaged groups and families that do not have an equal position in resolving the housing issue. One of the key problems, and that is why I will certainly support this amendment facing young people, is today the lack of affordable and quality housing. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 70 % of young people still live with their parents because their apartments are not or are not financially accessible to them. I will also support the amendment because it is high time to regulate the area of housing policy. We have a problem of irregular legislation, especially in terms of jurisdiction in the state-of-the-countries relationship, because the interest of both must be to provide adequate housing capacities. We are also faced with cases of transfer of responsibility, many apartments are empty, we do not know if they are in such or otherwise. Invitations in the congregations take several years, without individuals knowing or knowing in advance when a potential invitation to tender will be issued so that they can reach their home. We already know a number of examples of good practices in Europe, such as the case of transitional dwellings in Sweden, unfortunately we only build large and luxurious apartments in Slovenia, where young people cannot, in fact due to high rents, become independent of their parents. Transitional apartments can lead to smaller apartments, lower rents, young people can make their own way with their families, have a chance to save themselves for renting a later, slightly larger apartment, and so on. We lack protected housing for the elderly and, above all, funds in local municipalities that will enable us to solve the housing problem even the weakest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u128	Very briefly. I would like to point out that this amendment also includes regulating the problem of denationalised tenants. As regards the amendment of the law, I believe that housing law is urgently needed for comprehensive renovations and renovations. In doing so, we must not forget either the tenants of denationalised apartments or the denationalisation beneficiaries themselves. I think it's necessary to settle this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am pleased that, in support of the majority, this recommendation will also come within the framework of the recommendations made by the National Assembly, so to speak, to the Ombudsman's report. This is mainly because I think it is a concrete indication of one of the major problems of Slovenian society, which, perhaps of the other more ideologically colored in recent years, has not been so much on the agenda. This is inadequate housing policy. The fact is, in Slovenia, residential areas are huge. The fact is, too, that we are at the world summit by percentage of the ownership of residential areas. We lack exactly what the predecessors have already talked about, rental apartments and so on, something that would enable young families to move to the final goal, which is, of course, a very Slovenian, their own house. Of course, it may also be a solution to change our view of the world and to view life as a choice, not as an embarrassment in renting apartments. I am particularly pleased that there are also those groups in here that have not been given an equal position in the settlement of the housing issue since 1991. In the case of tenants of denationalised dwellings, but I cannot say more by means of sub-legal acts with some tricks, housing rights have changed into a tenant's right, in short, less social security, and in the end, many of them have had to move out of apartments in which they have invested for many years, have raised their children, have thought of them as their own. By correcting certain wrongs, we have done so to others. And here I think that, of course, it will have to come back a little deeper into history, but as with deleted ones, it will be necessary to find the right solutions and to bring things into an equal position. But if I'm just talking about housing legislation, I would also say that I hope that Members and Members will be able to have one sober thought in some other housing laws that will not be directly affected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u131	Please, peace in the hall! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u132	Human rights, however, may, at least after the feeling of some, limit the human rights of certain housing owners who own larger residential areas or more residential areas. [[...]] I believe that we will do all of this in a good future generation for the reasons I spoke about when I first came forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate on the amendment. We are moving on to chapter eight of the proposal for a recommendation. I am putting to the debate the first amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter eight. Please. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you. The amendment looks purist, but it's not. It's substantive. In the substantive and professional debate in the previous mandate on suffering, experts in consultation with the language section of the SAZU have found that what we want to say covers the term "toleration". And because it is a violation of labour law, the term used in Article 6a of the Labour Relations Act should be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That's why I'm concluding the debate on the amendment. We are moving on to chapter nine of the proposal for a recommendation. I am putting to the debate the first amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to chapter nine. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In Slovenia we have just over 100, at least according to our own records, groups of citizens who have the same pension rights as others, with the exception of supplementary pensions per deceased husband. The question was asked whether these women could receive a partial family pension. During the previous term of office, the Ministry held that it was not because the basic insurance had been provided by military insurers. In fact, we have found that part of the family pension was established later than the adoption of the Military Insurance Act, and at that time this right could not be regulated at all, and in fact the decision that there was no such right has been little constructed. We discussed this twice, we were just about to get a majority. I hope that the Ombudsman will also be alerted to a relatively small group that does not require a lot of resources to make this right possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you very much. It all shows that this older generation in the National Assembly is more concerned with the problems experienced by the older population. For this reason, I must also point out that it is insufferable for widows and widowers after military insurers from our former Yugoslav common country to be discriminated against and to be violated by the constitutional right of equality before the law, when we compare the fact that widows and widowers who take up pensions after a deceased military insured are entitled to this pension while they are not entitled to the widow's allowance. I think it's actually funny and inappropriate and yes. If we are to be consistent, we must settle this matter with an appropriate amendment to the law. I would also like to say that this is not only a widow's allowance on the basis of a deceased pensioner after military insurance, but even retired military insurers wishing to obtain a widow's allowance after a widow or after a widower who was insured as a civilian insured are said to be under general law. I think that this is actually an unusual interpretation and an unusual amendment to the 2005 law and that this needs to be corrected and done away with.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate on the amendment. I am putting to the debate the second amendment of the DeSUS Group to chapter nine. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That's why I'm concluding the debate on the amendment. We are moving on to chapter 12 of the proposal for a recommendation. I am putting forward the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 12. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why I'm concluding the debate on the amendment. I am putting to the debate the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Chapter 12. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is by Andrej Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is more decisive than the recommendations made to the Ombudsman's report. The Convention on the Rights of the Child speaks of putting children first. The need for an advocate has already been carefully examined by a group that has experimentally introduced an advocate of children's rights and coordinated with the Ombudsman's Office. And I must say that I very much welcome this initiative, because it is precisely in the case of children that there is a great, great need to strengthen their voice, especially when the parents are a little less disadvantaged or even if the parents are acting against the interests of the child. Here I would say that this doctrine, which we are writing in the amendment, says that the government should consider the possibility, of course it can be done in the way the experiment introduces it. I would like to draw my own attention to what some experts say is an extremely difficult task for the advocate, and it would also be worth considering that these tasks are professionally assigned to the advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That's why I'm concluding the debate on the amendment. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments and the proposal for a recommendation will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Thursday 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a DECISION ON AGREEMENTS TO AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RULES ON CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS FOR THE APPLICATION OF FUNDING FUNDS FOR THE FINANCING OF DISABLE AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. Amendments and additions to the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia were submitted to the Assembly by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments and additions to the Regulation were considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body and drafted a proposal for a decision on consent. I give the floor to the President, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for a further presentation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs, the disabled are at its 2nd regular session of 14. 1. 2009 considered amendments and additions to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of FIHO funds submitted by the Fund for Financing and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 16 of the Decree establishing FIHO in agreement with the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia shall be held on 16. 6. 2008 adopted amendments and updates to the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations 19. 12. However, 2008 adopted the supplements in accordance with the conclusions adopted at the 1st regular meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The legislative and legal service had no further comments on that text, which is also reflected in opinion 29. 12. 2008 The Committee has consolidated its consideration and discussion on both acts of the Foundation. The representatives of the applicant pointed out in the introductory explanation that the Foundation had prepared a supplement to the Foundation's acts in accordance with the decisions adopted by the Committee at its 1st meeting and had asked for the consent of the National Assembly. In a very broad debate, which took place mainly on suitability, the Foundation's potential to use the funds from the surplus of revenue over expenditure also for the acquisition of gambling operators' shares, the members of the Board expressed quite a few concerns and questions. This also raised the question of where the surplus is coming from, if the money for regular needs and the programmes of disabled and humanitarian organisations are always insufficient. Some discussers advocated the possibility of subsequent acquisition of shares as they considered that the foundation as a stronger shareholder in a shareholder company could provide a guarantee that it could operate even at a time when income would be under-performing. The Foundation’s representative explained that the provisions of the Foundation’s management rules relate to the assets acquired at the foundation’s establishment by prohibiting that its value should not be reduced. Subsequent acquisition and increase of capital is not specifically regulated and is made possible on the basis of the general rules on the management and management of assets including shares. The members of the Committee agreed that this area should be fully regulated and ensure transparency in the allocation and use of funds. They also agreed that the proposed amendments to the Foundation's acts followed the already adopted law and therefore the majority of the members of the Committee also considered that the Committee for the Amendment of the Foundation's Acts was proposing to the National Assembly in agreement. The proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of FIHO funds was adopted by 10 votes in favour and no votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u144	Honourable President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family. I was allowed to give my opinion to the DeSUS Group on both acts, amendments and additions to the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds for the Foundations for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, as well as to the Regulations of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations of the Republic of Slovenia. FIHO shall be in accordance with the conclusions of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee at its first meeting. 12. 2008 He sent to the National Assembly the amended text of the proposal for amendments to both acts. The previous texts of both acts infringed the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije and therefore had to be corrected by FIHO. This corrected text is without any comments from the parliamentary group, which means that irregularities should be corrected by this correction. According to the assessment of the parliamentary group, it is a matter of harmonising sub-legislative acts with the law. In this property owned by FIHO, we see no problem. Above all, we believe that the situation is even better now because we know that from the funds to be allocated by the State within the framework of the Kad, or the Court of Justice, we would in particular increase this property share, which would certainly maintain a strong enough influence in the field of managing the management of lottery money and with these funds in the long term in favour of the Foundation and all those who are looking for their own piece of better life here, within the context of the impact which they are indisputably recognised. In the DeSUS Group, we support both amendments and agree on these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Happy Friend on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! I would also like to give the opinion of the Slovenian National Party to the Regulation and to the rules of the Foundation, because these are essentially matters which are related to each other on the basis of the amendment of the law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. On the Committee, opinions were truly shared, as the President has already said, mainly because capital surpluses or financial surpluses make it possible to purchase shares. On the other hand, many wonder how it is even possible that this surplus has been created and why this surplus is now, despite the fact that all the disability organisations on the Committee have given a positive attitude to the Foundation and that they have been satisfied with the work of the Foundation both with the legal cooperation position and with the funding position. And yet we can tell that some surplus is. Simply put, this fact concerns actions that have taken place in the past year. Through Lottery, Slovenia has announced great gains and the fact is that people may have made more numerous decisions about gambling, and it is also appropriate to have the rest of the unused money in this fund. My personal thought was in this, and I also said that the Foundation is not only funding disabled people both in the basic statutory preamble of the written but that humanitarian organisations are also here. This need should also be expressed or satisfied in these humanitarian actions. And given that difficult times are coming with a recession in the economy and that these needs will be increasing, I too can hardly join this opinion, but now it would be wise to buy some shares and park them there because we know how it is with the shares - they are worth it today, tomorrow they can be worthless. This is also a risk that the foundation itself can lose what is now a bargain. In doing so, I would point out that, of course, we will not oppose this in the Slovenian national side, but we would like to see from the point of view of further work how, even during the crisis period, we can help all those who will not be able to reach the social minimum. I believe that you know that there are 250 000 such people in Slovenia. This is information that is widely available online and that this poverty is escalating, that it is not declining, that there is actually going to be even more of these poverty with the coming economic crisis. That is why it would be good, we also have the Director of the Foundation here to invite from this place also the leadership that has regulated this change also, by the way, status, the Director becomes the Director, the employee and so on, to remind him that he is also economically handling this money, because today can be a surplus, tomorrow the period of the dry cows, as we say to the Slovenians, will come and we will look at where we will get the money. There's something else that needs to be added. The Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap points out the great needs they have in their own species through personal assistance. We've also re-elected this on the committee. It was said that if all the funds gathered now were to be earmarked for such an item, the money would not be sufficient. But, Director, a repeat appeal to you, you're an ex- MP to just find a hearing for this environment as well. I believe they should be helped, too. As has already been said, it would not be proper for us to act irresponsiblely today when we are doing well, for I believe that we will hear you more difficult tomorrow when you are going to be ill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u148	Nicely greeted! I will also try to combine two opinions on two points. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we share a similar opinion as has now been expressed by the predecessors who have explained the opinions of the other Members. We intend to support both the amendments, both the rules and the rules of the Foundation, with similar concerns that the question of whether the time is really right for this large purchase of this share and that this also raises a whole range of issues that are now addressed to us Members, even in the last days when we see that there is a friction within the organisations, as well as non-conclusion with such allocation of funds as they share in this part. We think it would be right for the Ministry of Field Affairs to pay even more attention to this area and to see if everything is actually okay with these rules for division, and to think very seriously about this to some extent, we can say that it is a controversial or indisputable purchase of this share, which will, in fact, be the means intended for another purpose, for the activities of these organisations, turn into capital injections in Lottery. On behalf of the Group of Members, we will support these concerns, which have already been expressed by others. And I think that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in this area still has some work to do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much again. I will also bring together the debate on both documents, because the points are very connected. The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, adopted at the end of 2007, stipulates that the Council of the Foundation, in our case the Council of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, must harmonise the general legal acts within one year. The rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of Fih funds and the Fiho Regulation shall be adopted by the Council of Fich, which shall consist of 30 members. Of these, the majority, 28 representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations and only two members appointed by the Government to the Council. The documents referred to under the law are merely agreed upon by the National Assembly, and in the event that the act is not contrary to the law, it cannot be questioned and its competence does not affect the content of the documents alone. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons held a debate at two regular meetings. In accordance with the conclusions of the first regular meeting of the Committee of 19. 12. In order to re-examine and amend the rules and conditions governing the administration of Fiho resources and to take into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, we note that the proposed amendments have been made. The comments referred primarily to Article 9 of the Fiho Rules, that the Foundation may increase its share of shares in the Lottery of Slovenia by buying shares from other shareholders, but only in the way that the ownership relationship referred to in Article 1 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia is maintained. In the SD Group, we therefore believe that there are no longer formal reasons for not giving consent to these documents. Nevertheless, we also express the same document with a substantive view that the Council of Fiha will take them into account. Article 9 of the Regulation mentions the possibility, and here I join the opinions of other colleagues that the Fiho Foundation can also increase its assets by purchasing shares of other gambling operators from any surplus in the final account. The position of the SD Group is that we support the intention of the Foundation to also ensure the long-term stability of the financial resources of the Foundation, which are intended for the functioning of disability and humanitarian organisations, because they are exposed to large annual fluctuations in the range of available funds. However, in our Group of Members, we also consider that investing in the acquisition of new shares is not acceptable during the economic and social crisis, when all available funds from the Foundation are needed to invest in the social situation of those individuals and social groups with whom disability and humanitarian organisations meet each day in their work. However, this opinion is not binding for the Council of the Institute, and we expect them to take it into account. In view of what I have already said, most of the members of the Council of Fiha represent those organisations and that we have in some way delegated to them the right and the possibility to decide their own resources. In some ways, this starting point will also lead to an assessment of the FIHA work report, which is being examined annually by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and the disabled. However, in the parliamentary group, given that we also accept constant complaints, not just one, but also other disability organisations, we believe that the Foundation should increase transparency in the allocation of funds and ensure more effective coordination, not vote, of the needs of the various beneficiaries of the Foundation's funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Štefan Tisel has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u152	I say hello to everyone! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, all in attendance! In the light of the provisions of the 2007 amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which stipulated in Article 9 that the general legal acts of the Foundation must be in line with the provisions of this Act within one year of its entry into force, there are urgent changes, as we are already late. The Regulation should be adopted or harmonised by 24. 11. 2008 Amendments to the Regulation are therefore necessary in order to satisfy this legal obligation. In addition to this conclusion and the experience of the functioning of the bodies and services of the Foundation so far, there are other necessary changes and additions, as we have already heard. These are minor changes relating to the increase in costs for the operation of FIHO, in particular due to the introduction of the Director's professional function and to the increase in costs associated with the increase in the volume of work that has been identified so far. The provision is amended that humanitarian organisations are not limited to the internal division of different types of humanitarian organisations in coordination, and that the request for expert opinion of the Social Chamber and other relevant institutions is defined as an option and not an obligation. It is necessary to supplement the provision on the form and elements of the decision on the allocation of funds by invitation to tender. There is also an amendment to the provision concerning the procedure for the resolution of complaints to the Supervisory Committee as an appellate body. In mid-June 2008, the Foundation Council adopted amendments and additions to the Regulation and, in mid-December 2008, additions in accordance with the decisions adopted at the 1st regular meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The theme in this area is always varied and also materially quite rich. This has also been the case at a meeting of the Committee, where, in addition to the amendments, members of the Committee have touched on the problems of the diversification of the operations of humanitarian and disability organisations and, above all, funding. An extensive discussion was held on the appropriateness of the Fund’s ability to use the funds from the surplus of expenditure also to acquire shares of gambling operators. The Foundation’s representative explained that the provisions of the Foundation’s management rules relate to the establishment of a foundation by prohibiting its value from falling. Subsequent acquisition and increase of capital and regulation of the possibility of increasing assets through the acquisition of new shares is necessary as the foundation acts as owner and shareholder in the company Loteria Slovenije. This also gives her the opportunity to increase the material basis for the allocation of funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations, while at the same time increasing the impact of the Foundation on decision-making in the authorities of organisers of gambling. This also means strengthening the role of the Foundation in securing current social and public interests in the field of gambling, in the event of possible changes in equity relations in companies. The SDS Group agrees that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which we unanimously confirmed at the meeting of the home working body. But I'll talk about the next point. The main highlights of the amendments were supplemented by the Fund's Rules for Co-ordination of the Special Majority to decide on the most important matters. However, the most important change is the amendment to the law, which according to the new provision for the professional performance of this function. In this regard, the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the appointment and discharge of the Director, in accordance with the law, shall also be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SDS Group, we believe that changes and additions to the Foundation's rules are properly regulated in accordance with the law. We also believe that the Foundation, in cooperation with the actors, will be able to adequately resolve the financing of humanitarian and disability organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej, Zares Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u154	The Honourable President of the National Assembly is once again greeted! I will also discuss both documents submitted, first on the rules and then on the rules. Both of those acts relate to the law which was amended in the previous year and which, in the view of the Zares Group, is not the best, the Members did not really support the earlier reference. But we do understand that the laws of marriage must conform to his superior law. Both the rules and the rules change some of the things my predecessors have already talked about, which are problematic, the most possible increase in ownership in the Lottery of Slovenia. We ourselves are not convinced that this is the best option, not only because of the economic circumstances in which we are, but we believe that the Foundation's primary purpose is to distribute funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations. Take care of how this money gets into the foundation, and it's not the foundation's main concern. That's what this country's worried about. And this country in a better way than it's done now would probably be difficult. This good practice is also recognised by other disability and humanitarian organisations across Europe. The loss of the lotteries concession fee is considerable because more resources would be difficult for the State to contribute. And as already mentioned, such an investment may also be a poor investment because it depends on what happens to Lottery, although these are the principles of an economic sector that is worse off when it goes to other economic sectors. So much for providing funds. This concern that this would mean a more permanent source for FIHO is, in our view, superfluous. If it turns out that, in short, Lottery is a insufficient source of what is needed, the Republic of Slovenia will otherwise take care of its disability and humanitarian organisations. But if she can't do it, it's probably because she can't take care of any other group, in short, so it doesn't go so badly. Until then, probably no group expecting State aid should be more equal than others, since, in spite of everything, the disability and humanitarian organisations probably do not want to be a country in the country, which is often evident also by some disability organisations and which we really hope is not true in the Group. Although certain changes in these rules may lead us to a different opinion. Of course, the Regulation introduces more resources for the operation of the Foundation itself, for the professionalisation of the Director’s function, which in itself is not disputed if, of course, it means better service. On the other hand, I would like to add another opinion why this law, which is based on changes to rules and regulations, does not seem to us to be the best. We are here in the National Assembly and we agree to the FIHA rules and regulations. On the other hand, consent to the appointment of the Director shall be given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Before the change of law, the National Assembly did so. If we wanted to be consistent, it would probably be good to hand over all these powers only to the Government or only to the National Assembly. Here I don't think all things were well thought out and proper. One of the changes in the rules also plays a significant role in the National Council of Disability Organisations rather than in the case of disabled organisations operating at national level, as has been the case so far, which, of course, confirms the country's fear of being abused and allows for a greater possibility of abuse. Because of all the concerns raised in the Group, we are really not united about how to act when voting on these two documents, so we will be Members and Members of the Zares Group in this case, in accordance with our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on Thursday 29 January 2009 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. The agenda item - this is on the proposal for an agreement on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Fund for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. Changes and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia were submitted to the meeting by the Foundation for Financing and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments and additions to the rules were considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body and drafted a proposal for a decision on consent. I give the floor to the President, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for a further presentation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much again. Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the report on amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at the second regular session of 14. 1. 2009 re-examined the amendments and additions to FIHO rules submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 11 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 13 of the Decree establishing FIHO, in agreement with the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The FIHO Council is 16. 6. 2008 adopted amendments to FIHO Rules, 19. 12. 2008 Supplements in accordance with the conclusions adopted at the first regular meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The legislative and legal service did not have any comments on that text, resulting from its opinion of 29. 12. 2008 The Committee has consolidated its discussion and discussion on the two acts of the Foundation and the discussion is also reflected in the reports on amendments and additions to the FIHO Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds we have drawn up in the previous paragraph. There was a considerable debate and the members of the Committee agreed that this area should be fully regulated, ensuring transparency in the distribution of spending. They also agreed that the proposed amendments to the Foundation's acts were to a greater extent followed by the legislation already adopted and that most members of the Committee also considered that the Committee for the Amendment of the Foundation's Acts was proposing to the National Assembly in agreement. The proposal for a decision on consent to the amendments and additions to the rules was adopted unanimously by thirteen votes to none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Foundation, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the LDS Club, we expressed our concerns about the proposed amendments to the two documents, i.e. the Rules on Criteria and Conditions for the Use of Funds and the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Of course, changes are essential as a result of the change in the law we passed last year. But here again I would like to point out that at the time in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we made it clear that there were bad changes to the law and that this was also evident from the very explanation of the text as well as the changes then mentioned. The key idea was to change the structure of the world in foundations, both the Fiha and the Sports Foundation, and to set up procedures for the re-election of directors. All the rest were additions in content, which in fact made the law worse than it was before. If we follow the point prescribed by the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije, it is of course necessary that other acts, i.e. acts as a consequence of the law, be amended and aligned with the law. The amendments to the Fund's funding rules go in two directions. The first is that the changes are actually in line with the law. The rules also amend articles that are not required by the amendment of the law last year. In our opinion, this amendment, which is not required by law, is the possibility that the foundation will influence the ownership relationship in Latvia of Slovenia in order to increase its equity share by purchasing shares. Here we have great concerns in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We are sure, and if we have followed the Ombudsman's report before, and when we have talked about discrimination, we have heard a lot about discrimination against people with disabilities. This means that the situation in Slovenia is not so regulated that we can afford to make stocks today, reserves of resources to increase ownership in the Slovenian Lottery. If this is a problem, then it is necessary to look for additional solutions, different forms that could increase this equity share. However, we do not agree in any way that, with the warnings of a type of disability and humanitarian organisations, that they lack the resources for their operations, we agree that we will not distribute the funds and that we will devote the surplus not to the functioning of disability and humanitarian organisations, but to the change in the ownership of Lottery. Today, there have been a number of concerns that this investment is not necessarily going to be very good. So it's not necessary. We know that a change in exchange rates has actually led to shocks from the owners of certain securities. And this can also happen today with the best will to want in the long term, which we agree in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we need to provide a stable financial resource in the long term for the functioning of disabled and humanitarian organisations. I am sure that there is no Member here in this Chamber and not a Member who has not met in the field with questions of assistance to certain disability and humanitarian organisations. And if we are assessing today on the report that social hardships due to the poor material base of people are a problem and that in this way there is a loss of human dignity, in this case I cannot agree that the funds we could place in humanitarian organisations will be diverted to the change in the ownership stakes of Lottery. This is not acceptable to us. And also, once again, with the good intention of providing a stable source, I think the solution is bad, because it is at the expense of the ongoing functioning of individual disability and humanitarian organisations. I therefore believe that in the National Assembly it will be very quickly necessary to reflect on the changes to the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia in order to try to raise the open issues that we are talking about today in a way that will not go to the detriment of the disabled and humanitarian organisations. This is not acceptable to me, so we are also on the committee, and today, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we express these concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Amendments and Supplements, the Rules will be decided on Thursday 29 January 2009 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a DECISION ON AGREEMENT TO AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF FUNDING RULES FOR THE FINANCING OF SPORT ORGANISATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. Changes and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia have been submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the rules were considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother and drafted a proposal for a decision on consent. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potrat for further presentation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 1st regular meeting on 15 January 2009, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth discussed the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 23 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly. On 27 November 2008, the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations adopted amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules. On the basis of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, the Director of the Foundation sent a replacement text on 29 December, which did not contain any substantive corrections, but only amendments to the nomotechnical nature. The proposed text was not approved by the Foundation Council in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije and was confirmed only at the second correspondence meeting on 6 January this year. The confirmed text with additional explanation was transmitted as a full text to the National Assembly on 7 January. In its opinion of 13 January 2009, the Legislative and Legal Service did not comment on that act, but its representative orally pointed out that the level of meetings set out in Article 6 of the Rules was an issue of their suitability. The representative of the applicant pointed out in the introductory explanation that the Council of the Sport Foundation had adopted only the most urgent corrections to the rules resulting from the provisions of the Property Reform Act of the Lottery of Slovenia and had asked for an early agreement on the rules. In the discussion, which took place mainly on the appropriateness of the meeting of members of the Council for participation in Council meetings and expert commissions, the members of the Committee expressed a number of concerns and questions. Some considered that, at the present time, the financial and economic situation had been offset by 12% of the minimum gross wage for meetings too high and a lower percentage could also be set for them. Other discussers felt that, given the complexity of the work, it was appropriate, if not too low, to hold a session. Some concerns were also addressed by the members of the Committee to the required higher education for the Director of the Foundation and to the uncoordinated decision establishing the Sports Foundation with the Property Change Act of the Lottery of Slovenia. In this regard, the Committee unanimously agreed to propose to the Government that it prepare and submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible for the adoption and adoption of a new decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be in line with the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia. This Decision will be forwarded to the Sport and Government Foundation. Following the discussion, the nine-vote committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decision is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Igor Luksic, Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u162	President, thank you for your word. A Respectable Congregation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u163	Mr. Secretary, for the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u164	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u165	Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u166	That wasn't supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u167	It's always the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. The Honorable Congregation. I would just like to say that the Government has made 12 comments on the proposal for amendments and supplementing the Rules of the Foundation. We find that none of these have been taken into account. The President spoke in particular of the two which were under discussion. And I'd like to warn you about those two. It is a proposal that a meeting of members be charged at the rate of one twelfth of the minimum gross wage in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 70. In doing so, we have taken into account some criteria that apply to meetings, such as the highest professional body, this is the Professional Sport Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the meeting is in the amount of one diary, amounting to 21 and several euros. It's three times that. This is what disturbed us, and we felt that we needed to inform the congregation of this position. The following matter, which has also been discussed on the Committee, is a prescribed education for the Director, where it says that the Director has a high education. Higher education is something that slowly disappears from use. In the meantime, we have adopted amendments to the Higher Education Act, where we have the first, second, third Bologna level. In our view, this regulation or those rules of the Foundation should also take account of this legislation. Therefore, I think it would be right for the assembly to consider these two key comments if we ignore all the other ten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly, for your kind greeting, Mr Minister. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group on the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is as follows. The Slovenian Lottery was transformed by ownership in 1998. Since then, it has been owned by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and owns 10% of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Kad also owns 25%, and the Court owns 15%. In 2007, 89.5 million Euros of transport were made available for the development of classical gambling. The beneficiaries of concession fees, namely the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, were allocated €18.7 million, representing 85% of all concession fees received by the two Foundations. The Foundations have already been established with a view to achieving the public interest or financing of disability, humanitarian and sport organisations. However, since funds are very large in these areas, many conflicting interests and fears arise regarding the impact on distribution. In 2007, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supported the amendments and additions to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which established a more balanced composition of the Council of the Foundation for Sport, Professionalization of the position of Director of the Foundation and a two-thirds majority in deciding on the allocation of funds. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore supported the amendment that, following the new Director of the Foundation, he is professionally appointed for five years and that he can be appointed no more than twice in a row. These amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules are therefore only a matter of compliance with the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which provides that the general legal acts of the Foundation must be in line with the provisions of this Act within one year of the entry into force of this Act. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendments and additions to the rules or we support the consent of the National Assembly to these amendments and additions to the rules. However, as the debate on the meetings of the Foundation's official has also developed on the parent committee, I would like to point out that, in our view, the meetings should be proportionate to the responsibility, work, time and expertise of the officials. According to the Foundation Director's assurances, the current meeting is expected to be worth around €70 gross, depending on the responsible work that officials are required to do in relation to the allocation of funds to sports organisations. Based on the height of the meeting, I don't think there's any demagogic polynomization in this place that's going to be needed in style, who's going to pay for coffee or lunch. We also agree with the proposal of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth that the Government should prepare and submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible for the consideration and adoption of the amendment of the decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be in line with the law on the property transformation of Lottery Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you. Changes and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations have come to the National Assembly with a minor delay in amending FIHA rules. And just as on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons had at first had quite a few concerns about the rules and rules and invited FIHO to take note of the comments, we also in the SD Group knew that the rules in individual elements were not aligned with the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia. However, the fact is that the Committee cannot substantively interfere with and enforce the proposed amendments to the rules. It has only the option to adopt rules or to reject rules. The vote on the committee ended by 9 votes in favour and 3 votes against. We believe, however, that the decision to establish the Sports Foundation needs to be reformed. We have charged this on the Committee to the Government because it is responsible for preparing such a proposal for amendments and has complemented it. For we believe that, at the time of the creation decision, the circumstances have changed so much that the decree really needs to be changed. The second question is, what changes have been made by the law on the lotteries of Slovenia and how this coordination will be possible because the changes need to be coordinated between Fiho and between the sports foundation. It will therefore do something to ensure that these rules are in line with the legal text. However, we are aware, as it is said, that this moment of rejection of the rules would mean that the procedure in the National Assembly is over because, I emphasise, the Committee had no possibility of amending the rules and the National Assembly could not do so. It goes in principle: take it or leave it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! The main reason for the amendment of the Foundation's rules or the basis for the amendment of the Foundation, the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, is Article 9 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, adopted at the end of 2007. The law provides that the legal acts of the Foundation must be in accordance with the provisions of this Act. The deadline for harmonisation shall be one year after the law has been enacted. In fact, the Foundation has already missed the deadline for its correspondence meeting on 6 January 2008, according to its body, the Foundation Council, to adopt a new text which is the subject of reception or treatment at today's meeting. However, the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia relate to the composition, designation and resolution of the Foundation Council, the decision of the Foundation on the financial account, the final account and the rules on the terms, criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds of the Foundation, the introduction of the professional function of the Foundation Director and the length of the mandate of v.d. Director. The National Assembly is obliged to give its consent or not, it is said to reject it, but cannot affect the content submitted by the World of the Sport Foundation. This is said to be unchangeable, so it is impossible to invest and accept amendments. But we can reject the whole change of rules. The law also discusses the possibility of paying meetings of members of the Council. This is referred to in Article 6, which sets out 12% of the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it should be pointed out that Article 5 of the Act states that members of the Council and the expert commissions have the right to reimbursement of expenses relating to official travel, namely, daily subsistence expenses, actual transport costs and accommodation costs. The debate on the parental committee showed that the main issues raised in the debate were Article 6 and Article 5 in part, i.e. the meetings and the remaining refunds. We are at a time when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing and also presenting austerity measures. Some government measures are indeed symbolic, but they are a pattern of behavior. Some government measures are heading in the direction of reducing meetings and other costs. In this case, nothing about saving. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not accept the argument made at the meeting of the parent board that members of the Council deserve such a meeting because they decide to divide several million euros a year for sport. The government decides to split several billion euros a year for all areas. According to this logic, the government should not be saving on itself at all. The difference in liability is thousands of times in favour of the government. I can say that the arguments put forward by the Members of the Government on the parental committee are at a disadvantage. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fully agree with the Government's opinion on these issues. Allow me to tell you what was written on the Government's website on 15.1.2009, it is said, the same day that we also had a board meeting, by having a committee meeting later. I quote: "The Government notes that the decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia is not in line with the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, and therefore the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to align the provisions of the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations with the provisions of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, as the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are adopted on the basis of law and decree as hierarchically higher legal acts. The Government also has comments on the proposed amendments and additions to the Foundation rules adopted by the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia at its 8th meeting on 27.11.2008 and submitted by the Foundation to the National Assembly." This is said to be entirely justified by the concerns we had in the SDS that the Government thinks exactly the same. I wonder why we did not get an opinion from the government that had discussed this before that we had to find this on the government's website. Therefore, in the SDS, we support the Government's position that a decree must also be harmonised before the rules and that the content of Article 6 on meetings should be re-examined. We will not support the SDS and we will vote against it as we do on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej, Zares Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! We are back in front of a similar matter as at the previous two items of the agenda. The situation is quite similar, based on the same amended law, as the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations at first sight appear to be different, perhaps less problematic and controversial than those of the FIHO Foundation. As with disabled and humanitarian organisations, there are many interests, many different interests in the sports community, so we can be happy when they are brought together, although in this case we have heard from the predecessors, unfortunately this bench, which began to be complicated a year ago by the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Lottery, is no less divisive than it was then a year ago. It is a pity that, at least to say hierarchically the following act, this is a decree establishing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not care which, now or previous, has not changed for a week or a month before this deadline of one year, because then these rules would be a little easier for us too. Well, I don't mind the harmonisation or non-compliance of the rules with the decree if the rules are in line with a hierarchically higher act, that's the law. However, I am also grappling with some speakers so that the debate on the Committee may also be different if all the opinions involved, particularly the opinions of the Government, were quite clearly explained and proved. I think that the members of the committee did not want to interfere with the functioning of the Foundation by our debate and by voting, and we have therefore confirmed these rules on the Committee in good faith that this helps to improve the functioning of the Foundation and thus facilitate the functioning of Slovenian sport. As regards two problematic comments, one is about the Director's required education and the other about the meetings, I would say as follows. I guess some other term would be better, more accurate. Unfortunately, members of the Committee, or members of the National Assembly, have no opportunity to amend these rules. They're here and they're like that. Although I can personally understand this comparison by the Minister, who touched the meetings, that these meetings, which amount to 12% of the minimum gross salary or 70 euros gross, appear to be higher than some other meetings in comparable bodies. It's hard to say they're tall. In this assessment, I continue to insist. In the Group of Members, we really planned to support these rules of the Sports Foundation before this plenary debate, as we did on the Committee. According to the opinions heard here and the opinion of the Government, we will reconsider this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u178	Dear Mr. President! Dear Mr. Secretary! In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision adopted by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 1st regular session, in which it proposes to the Government to prepare and submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible and to adopt a new decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be in line with the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. At the same time, we support the Government's opinion that the content of the act before us should also be aligned with the provisions of the Property Reform Act of Loteria Slovenije. Unfortunately, however, the Government only adopted its comments on the amendments and supplemented the rules on the day that the Committee of the National Assembly had already met and was therefore not informed of its opinion in due time. We are confident that if the Committee were informed of the Government's opinion, a decision on the support for amendments and the addition of the Foundation's rules would not be adopted. In doing so, we must point out that, according to our assessment, the Sports Foundation has not taken a reasonable approach to the amendments to the act ahead of us, since it has had a year to prepare these changes. However, she caught the last deadline and quickly sent the draft act to the National Assembly just a week before the Committee's hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a Decision on Consent to Amendments and Supplements, the Rules will be decided on Thursday 29 January 2009 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the course of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is for consideration of the proposal for a decision on consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. The Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit has been submitted to the National Assembly by the Slovenian Institute for Audit. The Statute treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a decision on consent. I'm giving the vice president a word. Mr Žerjav to complete the presentation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 2nd session. 1. 2009 considered the statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Institute. The Statute was adopted by the Council of the Institute at its 24th meeting. 12. 2008 and replace the original text of the Statute of 5. 11. 2008 The Committee considered the original text of the Statute at its first meeting. 12. 2008 In the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, when examining the provisions of the Statute, formulated substantive and nomological comments to individual articles of the Statute, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the Institute that it adopt a new text of the Statute and resubmit it in agreement with the National Assembly. For a more detailed discussion of the Committee on the original text of the statute of the Institute, see the report of the Committee of 11. 12. 2008 Representatives and representatives of the Institute, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the Statute submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system, in particular the Audit Act, and the technical and regulatory aspects. The Service had no comments on the proposed text of the Statute drawn up on the basis of the comments made by the Service to the original text of the Statute. The Committee considered this point as a parent working body on the basis of Articles 112 and 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. The National Assembly shall give its consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit by a decision following the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of such a decision as the Act of the National Assembly. As part of the presentation of the Ministry's position at the time of the proposed Statute, the Minister of Finance stressed that, like the previous new text of the Statute, it had not been forwarded to the Ministry, since the Institute was independent and therefore the Ministry did not comment. Since the Legislative and Legal Service had no comments on the new text of the Statute of the Institute, and some substantive issues had already been discussed by the Committee in the context of its consideration of the original text of the Statute, the Committee, in the context of its consideration of the new text of the Statute without discussion, unanimously adopted the following decision: "The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, of 14. 12. 2008." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u182	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague! Nicely greeted! Position of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. In a brief introductory explanation of the proposed statute, the Director of the Institute stressed that the text of the Statute was in line with the new law on auditing. Otherwise, these are practically the same provisions as those contained in the previous statute of the Institute, which was adopted in 2001, including provisions on the internal organisation of the Institute. As previously stated by the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, an opinion was forwarded to the Committee by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the present Statute in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system, in particular the Audit Act and the technical legislative aspects. Of course, the Service for the proposed text of the Statute drawn up on the basis of the comments of the Service, which are of a technical nature submitted to the original text of the Statute, has no comments. Minister of Finance Dr. In his presentation of the Ministry's position on the proposed Statute, Franc Križanič also stressed that the text of the Statute was not transmitted in the opinion of the Ministry, since the Institute is independent. Therefore, the Ministry has not formulated its comments. In principle, the Ministry also has no comments on the organisation of the Institute and the Minister has also pointed out the fact that a public audit agency will be established in a short period of time, which will be the Institute's head of the Institute. On the basis of Article 112 and 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee, as we know, has given its consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit and has delivered a decision, following the procedure laid down for the adoption of such a decision as the Act of the National Assembly. Since the Legislative and Legal Service has no comments on the new text of the Statute of the Institute, and we have already discussed some of the substantive issues on the Committee in the context of the consideration of the original text of the Statute, there is also a committee with ten opinions and no objection to the decision to propose to the National Assembly for admission. The position of the Social Democrats Group is also positive, so we will support the proposed statute of the Institute for Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u184	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Audit Act, which was adopted in the previous year, provides for a more detailed organisation of the business and the tasks of the Slovenian Institute for Audit to be governed by a statute to give its consent to the National Assembly. The law also provides that the statute shall enter into force after the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has been given to it. The Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit is in line with the provisions of the new law. Although the Slovenian Institute for Audit was established on 1 January 1994 under the Audit Act, which was adopted in July 1993. The Institute is a legal person of private law. It is established as an institution on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Institutions. According to the content, the Institute is a non-profit legal entity carrying out audit tasks. It shall lay down, inter alia, the expertise and experience to carry out the duties of auditors and authorised value assessors, organise professional education to obtain the licences of auditors and authorized value assessors, decide on the issue and withdrawal of audit service authorisations, and maintain registers of authorised auditors and assessors and persons who have received the professional titles awarded by the Institute and carry out other tasks laid down by law and statute. The annual report on the work of the Slovenian Institute for Audit shall be reviewed by the National Assembly or the competent committee and the fees or tariff for the provision of services shall be approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support agreement on the statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u186	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group also has its position on the proposal for a decision on consent to the Statute of the Slovenian Institute for Audit. During last year, the Audit Act in Article 10 provides that the Institute shall submit within six months a draft of its statute setting out more detailed instructions for organisation and operation. That's what the institute did. Some comments were made on the original text in such a way that a new text was needed. However, the proposed content is now acceptable and compatible with the Audit Act. Therefore, the Members of the DeSUS Group will support this Statute or give a positive opinion. We estimate that the Institute, as an expert organisation, has prepared an appropriate act not only of auditing but also of accounting, business finances, tax advice, valuation of the value of enterprises, real estate and movable property, since it is not only about legal and formal adaptation of the legislation in force, but also about the appropriate placement of the rules for the modern functioning of the audit profession, in particular as regards the way, form, method and functioning of the Institute. The Institute under consideration is certainly the basis for the continuation of the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, which began practically from nothing, at the very beginning, and has established a thorough infrastructure for the modern functioning of the audit profession in Slovenia, has taken care of the rapid development of the theory and practice of auditing and has contributed a significant share to the visibility and implementation of the audit professions in the public. Members of the DeSUS Group believe that the proposed statute has been supplemented and will also provide a good basis and conditions for a successful Slovenian Institute for Audit in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The draft decision on consent to the Statute will be decided on Thursday 29 January 2009 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow, on Wednesday, January 28th, at 10 a.m. Have a nice good night.
