ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 11th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, Janez Janša, Ljubo Germič, mag. Franc Znidaršič from 16:00 p.m., Rudolf Petan from 10.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m., Villa Trophynik and Janez Ribič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE ECONOMIC CONSULTATIONS LAW, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The proposal for a bill on chambers of commerce is necessary, in order to eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution, as this Constitutional Court has found in its decision. The Constitutional Court has decided that the sixth paragraph of Article 29 of the Economic Chambers Act relating to the determination of the share of the entitlement after the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is incompatible with the Constitution. The draft law is in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and provides for a new percentage of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, on the basis of which it takes place in the division of assets. The Constitutional Court found, as inconsistent with the Constitution, that article stipulating that the shares of the entitlements of the GHS’s legal successor are included in the shares of the entitlements of those entities which have left the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and have not transferred their share to any place or transferred it to an unrepresentative chamber. Such an arrangement creates unequal treatment of representative chambers for which the Constitutional Court has not found a reasonable reason. The proposal provides that the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia shall be equal to the sum of the shares of the entitlements of all members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on the day of the entry into force of the Law on Economic Chambers, i.e. on 24 June 2006, reduced by the shares of members who have resigned from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The proposal also contains a solution in the event of a failure of agreement between the representative chambers by 17 April 2009. This makes all representative co-owners of GZS assets in relation to the shares of eligible representative chambers. The GHS must publish data on the proportion of the eligibility of the representative chambers together with its share of the entitlements on its website. These data are relevant for the calculation of the share ratio of assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or if the representative chambers do not agree on the distribution of assets. From this point of view, this is important for the calculation of the share of the co-ownership in the property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President William Rezman to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Have a nice greeting to all those who are honored! Let me briefly present the report of the Committee on the Economy, which considered the proposal for a bill on chambers of commerce or its amendment in the framework of its 14th regular session, by treating it as a working body of the mother. This proposal was prepared on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and, for the reasons stated above, I repeat only because the Constitutional Court found disagreements concerning the determination of the shares of entitlements in the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the distribution of this property between the representative chambers. The government was the one who proposed the substance of the bill, and the government was also the one who proposed that the law be adopted after a reduced procedure and that such a decision was taken in the College. The material prepared for consideration is the draft law itself with explanations, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which considered the appropriateness of the law in relation to the Constitution, the Nomotechnics and the legal system, and the third was submitted to the material in the form of amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 prepared by the coalition parliamentary groups. Other representatives of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the Government as a proponent, the Legislative and Legal Services and all three chambers participated in the Committee’s work: the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the introductory addendum, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik explained the reasons, purpose and solutions in connection with this law, and now he probably does not show them to repeat them because he introduced them this morning. However, it is right to say that the members of the committee with the proposed amendments were satisfied and were later accepted. Nor did they feel that the bill and amendments should be specifically discussed. So there was no debate. However, he intervened by a representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who felt it would be good to specify Article 2 more precisely, since it was not clear in their judgment whether the shares of those who made a declaration of resignation or of those who had otherwise ceased to operate or were deleted from the register of business. Since it was not possible to resolve this issue at the Committee on the Economy itself, it was suggested that this should be considered until the meeting of the National Assembly, because it was still an option, it was time to do so, but the amendment was not tabled later. It should also be noted that the Legislative and Legal Service has informed that most of its comments on the amendments have been taken into account and that it has retained the Legislative and Legal Service's concerns regarding Article 4 when it considered that it was not the best solution for those who are addressees of the data and those who are liable to publish those data to the same person. It assessed that it would probably have been better if it had been one third of the authorised persons, but this point of the Legislative and Legal Service, as I said, had not been adopted. However, amendments were adopted, the bill was supplemented and this amended bill is being considered today at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, good morning, good morning! It is true at the meeting of the home working body that there were no comments on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Chambers. This is for a simple reason - because this bill is a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which found non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is, of course, necessary to imagine why it has occurred that so far, the Economic Chamber of Slovenia has allowed, as a legal successor, to retain, in addition to the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that are other members of Slovenia, the share of the entitlements of economic operators that have withdrawn from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, but have not transferred their share to any new chamber. The Constitutional Court, by its decision, wanted to correct the error. In our belief on the labour market that this correction also satisfied the Constitutional Court's decision, we all agreed that this law should be adopted. However, we cannot go beyond the comment made by the Chamber of Commerce, for which the proposal to amend the law in principle is acceptable, but they have raised doubts that this proposal, which we are talking about today, is not fully or completely following the decision of the Constitutional Court. It does not fully follow because it assesses that the shares of legal entities which have been legally deleted from the business register are also considered to have been lost. The applicant claimed, of course, that the proposal for a law and a new decision was based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, where it should be specified exactly what was among the fallen shares and how a new proportion of the beneficiaries should be identified. However, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce did not agree on this for a simple reason because they considered that the decision of the Constitutional Court meant that all the lost shares were deducted, i.e. the shares of those who had declared the withdrawal request, to which the drafter of this Act made a strong reference, i.e. the declaration of will. And the Chamber of Commerce considers that the Constitutional Court’s decision also covers those who for various reasons have ceased to operate, and this has not been explicitly expressed by a declaration of resignation. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that it would be good to put more effort and more time into examining the claim of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It was agreed that this issue should be examined and, if necessary, amended by the amended proposal of this Act. As far as I know, this amendment didn't happen. In the Slovenian National Party, we have doubts as to whether this harmonisation is indeed 100 % or, perhaps, the Chamber of Commerce is right, especially from the point of view, as I recall, when we passed the law on voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce, we announced that it would be a great fight for funds and for the legacy of the previous Chamber of Commerce. I cannot go beyond this in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal of this law that this doubt is so much greater because there is a man at the head of the Chamber of Economic Affairs who has not fulfilled his obligations in his post as Director because he has not paid contributions to the workers. If anyone is running such a chamber, the Slovenian National Party considers it necessary to be, and rightly so, very in doubt and very careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In our consideration, we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies, which we will also support in the House of Liberal Democrats. At its meeting on 9 April 2009, the Constitutional Court decided, in an initiative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, that it was part of the Law on Economic Chambers in breach of the Constitution. For this reason, today we have before us a proposal for a law following a decision of the Constitutional Court, which decided that the sixth paragraph of Article 29 of the Economic Chambers Act is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court considered that this paragraph precludes the unequal treatment of representative chambers in the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In Article 29, paragraph 6, the current law allowed the legal successor to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to retain, in addition to the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that remained members of it, the shares of the entitlements of those who had resigned from the legal succession of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, while not transferring their share to any chamber or transferring it to a chamber which had not acquired representative status until the division of the property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Since the proceedings established non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest general act. Since the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not respected, this non-compliance must be eliminated, and we will therefore support the proposed law at the Slovenian Liberal Democrats' Club, which eliminates this non-compliance. In doing so, we draw attention to the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, because they have raised certain reservations about the interpretation of the amended law itself, and therefore we believe that it is essential that the interpretation of the legal provision be applied in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Matevž Frangež, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Respected and respected! The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Honourable Minister. The current legal regime in Article 29, paragraph 6, of the Economic Chambers Act allows the legal successor to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to retain, in addition to the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that have remained members, the shares of those economic entities which have left the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and which have not transferred their share to any new chamber or transferred it to a chamber which has not acquired representative status until the property has been distributed to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Therefore, the Constitutional Court is in its decision No. 120/08-25 decided that the sixth paragraph of Article 29 of the Economic Chambers Act is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, this paragraph allows for unequal treatment of representative chambers in the division of property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must abolish the findings of non-compliance with the Constitution. The bill eliminates inequalities and differences between the representative chambers in the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and redefines the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, on which the distribution of assets between the representative chambers depends. The proposal therefore provides that the proportion of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce shall be equal to the sum of the entitlements of all members of the Chamber of Commerce on the day of the entry into force of the Chamber of Commerce Act, i.e. on 24 June 2006, reduced by the proportion of the members who resigned from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 29(4) of the Chamber of Commerce Act. The fourth paragraph of Article 29 made it possible to obtain a certificate of entitlement of an individual member if the member withdraws from the legal successor within 22 months of the entry into force of the Chamber of Commerce Act. In this way, the decision of the Constitutional Court is satisfied where the so-called failed shares of entitlements are no longer automatically included in the legal successor to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Shares of the entitlements of those members who have resigned from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and their share have not been transferred to another representative chamber, but have transferred it to another non-representative chamber or have not been transferred anywhere, are therefore no longer taken into account in the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is essential in the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia among the representative chambers. For reasons of clarity, the proposal states that the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia must be divided in relation to the shares of the entitlements of each Chamber of Representatives. If the representative chambers do not agree on the division of assets into statutory deadlines, they shall become all representative co-owners' chambers or co-owners of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce in relation to the shares of the eligible representative chambers. The provisions of real law shall then apply to the management of this property. We will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Lojze Posedel on behalf of the Zares Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we are already on the home committee, which was confirmed by the proposal of the Government or the proposal of the Ministry of Economy to amend the Law on Economic Chambers in the Committee of the Economy without discussion. We will also vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the law in the Parliament of the European Union today, because it is the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decisions and the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce among the legal successors will be regulated by the adoption of this law, which is among the representative chambers. As we say, everyone in the Group of Members will indeed confirm this proposal for amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. Yes, indeed, I would like to present as a member of the DeSUS Group and as a Member of the Member's position, in relation to a law that has its roots a few years ago. And even then, we carefully monitored what was going on and pointed out some possible weaknesses. Let us recall that when the Chamber of Commerce was transformed, the possibilities of creating problems relating to the representation of the interests of the economy, regarding the deadlines for the establishment of representative chambers, regarding the division of assets, not only of assets, but also of staff, and more such concerns had to be reconsidered before the decision fell. This needs to be repeated because later, as real as it is, some flaws have really shown up. And it may also be necessary to mention this because we are also considering further deciding on what status or membership will be in other chambers. Will it still be mandatory or not? Although a number of surveys, analyses, studies were carried out at the time, it was not possible to avoid all weaknesses, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out by its decision. Today, it is essentially the property of all those who are remaining members of the Chamber of Commerce, the rest of the Chamber of Commerce, but two minuses must be made. That property, the minus asset of those who stepped out and transferred their assets to new chambers, or the minus asset of those who stepped out, entered the new chamber, and this new chamber did not reach the threshold of representativeness. These shares therefore remained the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the Constitutional Court's decision to take into account proposals for new divisions is now being taken into account, and it is also good that the possibility of a complication has been considered in advance if we do not reach an agreement, and this is provided for in the law to resolve such a possible complication. We also estimate that the comment of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was at least worth warning if it has not already been implemented. But the technical explanations went in the other direction, in the direction that such a change was not necessary and that this was also resolved in a decision issued by the Constitutional Court. The considerations raised by the Legislative and Legal Service are also justified in our judgment, but they are not such as to withdraw my support for this law. The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for amendments to the Economic Chambers Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Pukšič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister. In its decision, the Constitutional Court found or ruled that, in violation of the Constitution, it had allowed a legal successor - the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to retain, in addition to the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that were its members, the shares of the entitlements of those economic entities that had left the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, or that they had not transferred their shares to any new chamber, or transferred it to a chamber that had not obtained representation status until the division of the property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Such arrangements have resulted in unequal treatment of the representative chambers in the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The proposal for a law before us removes this non-compliance as it redefines the shares of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce, which then depends on the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce among the representative chambers. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for such a law. We are pleased that the applicant has already taken into account in Article 3 that if the representative chambers on the division of assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia do not agree by 17 April 2010, then they will become representative co-owners of the Chamber of Commerce. However, it seems to us that he has taken this into account out of caution because he is aware of who runs the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and because, in some other cases, President Pavček does not respect the legal obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the defence of the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision reshaping the University of Maribor. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Dr Jozsef Györkös, State Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A decree amending and supplementing the decree on the reshaping of the University of Maribor proposes the establishment of a new member of the University, namely the Faculty of Tourism in Brežice, as well as the change of the seat of the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Science. At the same time, Article 3 of the Decree also aligns the names of the street members of the university. Article 6 of the Decree takes account of the newly established member of the University of Maribor by defining the activities and harmonising the decree in terms of the correct indication of the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Science. The names of the study areas are also in line with the Regulation establishing and applying the classification system for education and training. It is also proposed to delete the third paragraph of Article 12 of the Decree, which gives members of the Management Board of the University of Maribor the right to reimbursement of costs, since the area will be subject to appropriate regulation under the Higher Education Act. The establishment of the Faculty of Tourism in Brežice complements the offer of study programmes in the field of tourism already offered by higher education institutions and educational programmes Guestship and tourism carried out by higher education schools. To illustrate, in the end, five plus two programmes in higher education institutions are related, i.e. five concessions and two unaccommodated, and eight together in higher vocational schools, of which six are concessional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	I am also gathering a very nice greeting on behalf of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, which addressed the Proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decree recasting the University of Maribor at its 6th regular session on 5 November 2009. The introductory explanation stated that a key change was the establishment of a new university in Brežice. The Rector of the University of Maribor, Dr. Ivan Rozman, who was also invited to the meeting, stressed that this was a strategic decision of the University to set up a new university outside its home centre, namely Maribor. Taking into account the advice of the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service that part of the legislation governing funding, in particular funding in the initial, most sensitive phase of the establishment of the new Faculty, an amendment was proposed, namely as an amendment to the Committee, and was essentially created by the University itself in Maribor to provide start-up funds for the first two years of the existence of a new faculty by the State. The University, as its founder, has concluded a special contract with the Municipality of Brežica for the establishment, which provides for the financing of most of the necessary funds by the Municipality of Brežica itself. With the practical uniform support of all members and members of the Higher Education Committee for the establishment of a new faculty and for the confirmation of the proposed decision, the key debate was precisely about this proposal for an amendment to the committee, namely that the proponents of this solution stressed that the poor economic situation in which Slovenia is doubtless in Slovenia could lead to difficulties in starting a new college, since the extremely poor economic situation is causing significant declines, including at the level of the municipality, which could therefore have difficulties in meeting this contractual obligation, and that it would therefore be good to have a legal basis for the adoption of this amendment so that part of the funds can also contribute to the state. This was strongly opposed by the minister, who said that new funds would be justified only if it were a whole new college and a new programme. Given that the University of Maribor is already partially implementing this programme and that it is here to establish a university in a new location, this is in the municipality of Brežica, which opposes this because it is an non-systemic solution. Despite warnings that even threatening the establishment of a new college could potentially reduce inflows due to a poor economic situation, most of the amendments were rejected and the decree itself was unanimously confirmed and we propose to the National Assembly that it be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	Hello again. It is clear from the report of the parent working body that the decision to amend and supplement the decision to reshape the University of Maribor supports the mother working body, so we also support it in the Liberal Democrats' Club and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the resolution amending the decree establishing the University of Maribor, as it has always followed the wishes, the autonomous wishes of the University of Maribor and their strategic orientations. The establishment of a new university in Brežice is a strategic decision of the university and also grows from the needs of the environment in which the university will operate. The specificity of the University of Maribor is that it grew and grew with the environment in which it worked. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the University of Maribor covers a good part of Slovenian space and complies with the basic principles that it is a public university at national level based in Maribor, and with some other seats scattered across Slovenia. I will not talk about what news the decree brings and why it has to be changed, because this has already been said three times, but allow me to stay in the work in which we supported the decision of the ministry or government in the Social Democrats' Group and also to follow those who decided to set up a new college. It is a study program that is not quite new, but it is only in one part that deals with hospitality or gastronomy. That is why he also received support from the expert bodies, and this also leads to our belief that we cannot agree to a different treatment, but that it is necessary to take into account the provisions in force so far, irrespective of the fact that the Regulation is slowly running out of force. But until a new law is passed, which might otherwise regulate matters, we must take into account the legal basis in force. This is an agreement between the University and the Municipality of Brežica and it is not possible to write about the same thing or in the same amount of two sources of funding. One on the side of the state and the other on the side of the donor treaty. It was precisely this agreement on the donor funds of Brežice that was crucial in the consent to the establishment of a new university. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore support the decree establishing a new faculty in Brežica, and, of course, other amendments made by the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Once again a very nice greeting also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, i.e. SDS. Allow me to do what I want to do in the beginning on behalf of the entire party and on behalf of myself also as Chairman of the Committee for the moment from the beginning of this story. This is to sincerely congratulate the Municipality of Brežica and the University of Maribor on their courage to take an important step in regional development and in the development of the state of Slovenia as a whole by establishing a new university in Brežica municipality, at a time when the economy faces major problems. That's something that matters. In particular, each such institution, then with its synergies, by attracting the most capable people, highly educated people and at the same time with cooperation with the environment, with new economic programmes, is opening up new development opportunities for Slovenia by strengthening knowledge. And that is essential for our long-term development. Therefore, once again, sincere congratulations to all who made these decisions, both at the level of Brežica Municipality and the University of Maribor. With regard to the SDS position, the situation is already very clear on the basis of these words, and the SDS will support the proposed proposal. We believe that this is an important strategic decision, a bold step, and we hope that the faculty, with its existence and quality work, will not only justify its existence, but will also contribute significantly to the further development of this border region, which is already, because of its special position, due to the proximity of the Schengen border, even more sensitive and, at the same time, more urgently, need further development incentives. And in some ways, the creation of a new college is also a developmental incentive. With regard to the position on proposals for possible changes, which now, given that it was no longer possible to table amendments in the text itself, would remain open, however, in our opinion, precisely given that the economic failure of the current government has caused these reduced inflows to occur also at the municipal level and thus to the indirect state or government, or to the ruling coalition, if you wish, to bear responsibility for any problems which may also have a significant impact on the ability to establish and in this crucial start-up period of the new college, the new university institutions, therefore have one part of the responsibility of the state if these problems arise, it would be justified, however, to accept those amendments with which these initial start-up funds would be provided. If it happens that there will be a reduction in inflows at the municipal level, difficulties in meeting the contract, then the whole university will work, which will then be the one that will obviously have to replace the funds. But because it's a public institution, it means that we're actually just spinning around the same problem. However, the difficulties of establishing an existing government because of its economic failure do not justify its opposition to this amendment, which was eventually proposed by the university itself, on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out that some of the key things for financing in legislation have not yet been regulated. Once again, the government and the ruling coalition are responsible for this. All these are the reasons why, despite the fact that this programme already exists in part at the University of Maribor, it is already being implemented and that it is not really a new programme, but it is a new college, in order to make it as unsystematic as it was by the opposition of the Government and the ruling coalition to be understood in the debate and also in the vote itself. Nevertheless, we firmly believe that this institution is important. We will support the decree and expect it to be in the future [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] including legislation in this area, and to meet all those shortcomings which were also pointed out by the Legal Service of the National Assembly. [[...]] But, of course, proposing here is the task of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Lojze Posedel on behalf of the Zares Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Home Higher Education Committee, we voted in favour of the amendment of the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor, and we will do the same today in the vote here in the National Assembly. In the debate on the parental committee, I am convinced that it has been a pleasure for the distinguished Rector and Secretary to listen to all the positive assessments that we have made or heard at this meeting, how good work policy and developmental thinking there exists at this university, and that this establishment of a new Member in Brežica is one of such decisions that this is extremely positive. In particular, from the point of view of the location of the municipality of Brežica itself at the Croatian border, and therefore so much more so that the unnecessary dispute with Croatia is settled as soon as possible and that Croatia enters the EU, because then this area will open up even more and is already of paramount importance today. That's what we all stressed at the meeting. The same as most of us opposed the amendment tabled in order to provide additional funds, which were given purely populistally without taking into account the substantive systemic solutions in this area. And I myself am joining the congratulations of the Brežica Congregation. At the same time, it should be stressed that this case is not isolated and that the same congratulations should be expressed to all mayors of all municipalities, and these are not small in Slovenia, who have decided to cooperate with the Ministry and Colleges and that it is also a good way and a good traveller. Therefore, it would not be appropriate for one of the municipalities to allocate additional funds with such an amendment, on the fact that the donor contract signed that the promised funds were also one of the essential conditions for the creation of a new Member and that such an amendment would undermine the systemic solution in this area. Above all, the fear is too high to expose the Government’s bad work at this point. At the local level, the tides do not go down completely. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia is liquid, is in good condition and at a local level, even when the state budget is adopted, it is clear that local communities do not yet feel the time of recession from this point of view. From all the above, we will indeed vote in favour of this amendment to the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Once again on behalf of the DeSUS Group, on the proposal for a decree amending the University of Maribor. We judge that every university, not just a Maribor university, is crucial for development, and most importantly, it feels like it's in that local environment. For the University of Maribor, however, it can be said that with its many members, 19 of them, it is also heavily anchored in other parts of Slovenia. And in this way it contributes not only to the regional development of those places that are somehow gravitationally bound to Maribor, but also to other environments. Regional development is being accelerated in this way also in those places, to name a few, Krška, for example, where one of the members, even in Ljubljana, and also in Kranj, in Hoča and, as we now hear, we are receiving a new university in Brežica, pardon, university. It is therefore an extension of the activities of the University of Maribor. But we're assessing this in the Dessus Group that it's not the only thing that's positive. More importantly, the university, with its members, strengthens the quality of its work. When we look at the many charts that classify our universities - both in the European Union and in Europe and around the world - we can be satisfied despite occasional criticism of the quality of our study. The University of Ljubljana is located quite high on the world scales, not so terrible, but in fact the University of Maribor is lagging behind, but it is far ahead of the newly founded or among the younger universities, and this speaks of the tradition that a university and its colleges, members, gain and experience, but is also important for the development of quality. I am pleased that, and we have also talked about this in the parliamentary group, it is establishing a college that will strengthen knowledge in the field of tourism in the field of economic activity, which has in recent years gained a great deal of momentum in Slovenia, which has not yet reached its summit. I think that this comparatively successful industry can also be this university with new staff, new knowledge, including research and everything else that goes to college, what contributed. I would like to express another satisfaction, because one of the members of the University of Maribor is also the Institute of Student Homes. Although we have failed to obtain €11.6 million in the University of Maribor, we have managed to obtain funds of some more than €8 million to obtain new accommodation for students and some of these resources will be received by the University this year and some in the coming year. This also suggests that the Government is aware, as well as the ministries, of the need to strengthen university potential. That is why in the DeSUS Group we are also prepared to give all our votes in support of this decree amending the University of Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Good afternoon. Dear President! Dear colleagues, all those who are already making notes! Very clear, sincere congratulations to our neighbours in Brežice for today's decision on the establishment of the Faculty of Tourism in Brežice, in cooperation with the Pomur Region. I am very happy and it has already been confirmed here that the University of Maribor has this open policy and is aware that it is not necessary that colleges are only in the largest places where universities are established, but that it is a decentralisation, deconcentration of Slovenia's power to do so. Today I am sure we will unanimously support the establishment of a new member of the University of Maribor, Faculty of Tourism in Brežice. Similar support has been given in the past to two universities, which we have also established in our environment, according to Kršek, first with the Municipality of Celje Faculty of Logistics and together with the Municipality of Velenje Faculty of Energy, based in Kršek. In this way, I think that we have done, together with the Brezians, that the environment where logistics, energy, tourism in the main sectors of future development are closer to what is most necessary for these industries to succeed: it is the institution of knowledge. It is very interesting that such cities as are mentioned as well as Velenje, as well as any other city that invests its municipal funds for these purposes. In this way, despite the absence of regionalisation, they stress their importance on the Slovenian regional map and, at the same time, are aware of their responsibilities for their future. I must say that the controversy around these amendments is now very interesting and I would like to try to illuminate the funding system for new colleges in a different light. As I said before, there is an energy program going on in our town, and now two generations have been enrolled. The funding system for higher education institutions is such that the number of enrolments, the transition to the following years and the number of graduates in that year are counted as a factor for the calculation of college money. We are all probably aware that in the first years of college there are no graduates and there are such breakthroughs as not only for the material conditions for entry into operation, but also for the regular functioning of these newly created Member States a third of the funds. The Municipality of Krko is now doing this, and I think that if this amendment is not supported today, it would certainly be necessary to look at the regulation immediately, this is a government document on the basis of which universities are financed, and this anomaly is eliminated. I think it will be the least contribution for the country if it co-finances the functioning of such institutions, but not that it adopts specific laws to promote regional development for individual regions. I understand the Minister that there may be a problem and an anomaly with those who have already paid full amounts in the past for the start of the university itself, but I certainly think that it is unfair for these cities, to these environments, that they must then also spend the first four or five years together to pay teachers in a state, public university. I think we need to think about this thoroughly. I think that, in support of this thorough reflection, the concept of development in one country in Europe, which we all like to refer to, we also want to imitate, this is Finland, a country with 5.2 million inhabitants, a country with gross social income, which is among the first ten in the world, has in the past decided that their development will be able to move forward if knowledge institutions disperse throughout the country. Thus, this country today has 13 universities scattered across Finland, has no landscapes in terms of political arrangements, but has developmental ones. And the foundation of this development was knowledge institutions. Congratulations again to Brežićans, congratulations to Maribor University. However, I think that, given what has already been said about the funding system of the newly created institutions, there would be a need for thorough reflection and fair funding in all the members of public colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, colleagues and colleagues. Good day again, another day! The Slovenian national party is absolutely in favour of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. It absolutely supports this because the Slovenian National Party has always wanted and wants to disseminate knowledge. We also support the way the university from the University of Maribor moved to one of the Slovenian cities. In this case, in Brežice. We welcome this, we welcome it for several reasons. Because decentralisation of knowledge is beneficial. Secondly, because of problems with student accommodations, with life, with work in the centres themselves, where the university and colleges are usually concentrated, this problem is very big. By being a university in Brežice, it has allowed a number of students who are closer to this environment to attend their university closer to their home, thus providing easier and better conditions for their work. The Slovenian national party is also grateful for the contribution made by Dr Janvit Golob, who warned or commented on behalf of the State Council that the University of Maribor should, in its elaboratory, process the area of the habilitation of teachers who will work in Brežice. And he warned that only visiting teachers from Croatia should have such habilitation. In the Slovenian National Party we checked the claim and found that out of 41 professors there are 6 guests from the neighbouring country. The Slovenian National Party, however, is grateful for this warning and wants a large number of recognised Slovenian scientists, experts, to work in the largest possible area of the Faculty and Universities in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, it is not necessary to touch on the issue of the amendment, and unfortunately it was not accepted by the Committee as an amendment. From the discussion that I have just heard from my respected colleagues and colleagues, it was between the lines to feel or read again that typical Slovenian attitude or question, why would you give something to someone, because the University of Maribor is doing a service to the Municipality of Brežica and vice versa, since the Municipality of Brežica is doing a service to the university with a donation. It is not true, the service goes mainly to knowledge, the service goes to young people, the service goes to the country of the Republic of Slovenia, which acquires knowledge and, last but not least, the development of tourism and what else can be listed. However, even if the municipality has the will, the desire, the desire and the donation of certain conditions for the establishment of a university, this country can also be grateful and could make a calculation of how much it will save on this account. As my predecessor said, however, she could have found that one part of what this country has to do must be given to develop the knowledge that even to those who care about this development. And here we now pronounce either on the crisis, either on one or the other, or on an unequal position, of course, in this case it does not seem fair. When we do something good on one side, when we turn our ass around, we get a good break. The Municipality of Brežica has sacrificed, given, helped and will, of course as any other local community for all its efforts, also on the basis of legal regulations, including the recommendations or opinions of the Law-Legal Service and the proposal of the University of Maribor, deserve financial assistance, which in this particular case would amount to 560 thousand in two years, which is the case for many millions who are "sputeli" and only God knows where, of course, a trifle. It is essential that, even if these 560,000 countries provide one great benefit, new progress and the further development of both the local community and the wider environment, and a huge amount of resources saved to the countries. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] on the other hand, it may be due to a reduction in student residence subsidies or something. [[..]] Congratulations to Brežićans and the university and great success for future students.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendment was adopted by the parent working body to the motion for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Audit Society for the Audit of Accounting Statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Mr Andre Visiak for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the Commission has been able to work for the supervision of public finances since, pursuant to Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, as a competent working body, it has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on who will revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors’ accounts. The only criterion was the price, of course, under certain pre-conditions. Indeed, the company had to be registered in the register of audit firms at the Slovenian Institute for Auditing and had to meet other conditions. For example, one is that at least three statutory auditors have five years of work experience, and the other is that they do not work with the auditor, that is with the Court of Auditors. Therefore, on the basis of these pre-conditions, the criterion for price selection was the Commission's proposal to adopt a decision in order to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008. Ljubljana, Vienna road 101. However, I must point out that the Commission has also heard an initiative or proposal that, in addition to the dry auditing of the Court of Auditors’ accounts, it would be appropriate to consider or initiate procedures to review the prudentity, cost-effectiveness and effectiveness of the Court of Auditors in the audit of auditors. What was the point, exactly? Of course, this principle is respected when it comes to the selection of auditors by the Court of Auditors, so that the audit no longer wastes itself but potentially saves public funds on the basis of the audit. It is said that the targets chosen by the Court of Auditors are such that it makes sense at all and that it is cost-effective to do so, and not least, what are the effects of the audits. How many public funds are saved in this way, what is this preventive function, that violations are not repeated and that they are resolved in the future. Of course, we have encountered a host of formal problems in order for anyone to carry out such a revision of the Court of Auditors. We also asked the institutions, the Institute for Audit, as well as other institutions, how this work could be done. We have found that there is no legal basis for this, and finally we have decided that there will be more cooperation in the selection or development of the Court of Auditors' audit programme for the following year with the State-wide Public Finance Supervisory Commission, which means that Members, irrespective of the provisions of the Court of Auditors Act, where Parliament and Parliament's working bodies have the opportunity to propose individual cases for revision. This is said to be the case, however, on the basis of certain discussions and discussions within the Commission and the Court of Auditors, in fact, it also participates in the preparation of this audit programme in order to make the targets or those to be revised the most correctly chosen in the future. So the Court of Auditors is also committed to, say, working more closely with the Commission. Looking forward to this discussion this year for next year, it is said that we also broke up at this point for the revision programme next year. Therefore, the Commission proposes a decision to select ABC Audit, d.o.o. to revise the Court’s financial statements. Ljubljana for 2007 and 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, comrades and colleague in the hall. I must say that I feel a little lonely and I am afraid, but I can say the position of the Group of Members on the choice of the Auditor's House to review the Court's operations. Our Group of Members agrees with the choice and will support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Lojze Posedel on behalf of the Zares Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we will truly support the selected auditor for supervision. In order for my colleague not to be afraid further, I will sit down with her until Parliament is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Well, I'm also protecting the back of the speakers so that there's no excessive need for fear. Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Then he can go back to his place.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. It follows from the Constitution that the only audit house that is competent for the audit of all state accounts and public expenditure accounts and the state budget is the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors would also be the one to review itself, and this would already be unconstitutional and totally unwarranted and illegal. That is why we are deciding and the National Assembly is an institution that is competent to decide on the audit house to be audited by the Court of Auditors. In doing so, the DeSUS Group supports the decisions of the parent working body, i.e. the Commission for the supervision of public finances, in order to select an ABC audit company for this audit house, Ljubljana, although the Group of Members considers that we do not know this audit house, but the recommendations or reports on this house are such that they give us confidence in this house and we will also confirm this audit house in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. All Members who have applied have checked out, but there is still time to discuss 10 minutes. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I don't think so. I'm guessing not, so I'm closing the presentation. We didn't have a debate. The decision on the draft conclusions will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Under this item of the agenda, we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. This is a tax payable on the first registration of passenger motor vehicles in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law therefore does not regulate the taxation of freight vehicles, which has been frequently mentioned in the debates so far as is necessary and the weakness of this law. Under the current regime, the tax is also levied when the ownership of already registered motor vehicles is transferred to another owner. The tax base for the tax is the sales price of the motor vehicle and the tax rate is progressive according to the sales price and varies from 1 to 13%. The amendments and additions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia relate mainly to the reduction of tax evasion, the preservation of the financial expenditure of the system, the modernisation of the system by integrating environmental criteria, and the implementation of solutions that will prevent double taxation in accordance with European Union rules. The most important is the change in the way tax rates are determined, which is newly linked to CO2 emissions, as well as other indicators of the environmental suitability of motor vehicles such as dust particulate emissions and the Euro-Emission Standard. With the proposed changes, the government pursued both fiscal and environmental aspects. In determining the level of rates, it was based on the current level of taxation of petrol or diesel vehicles and the objective of reducing taxes on vehicles with lower CO2 emissions and increasing taxes on high-emission vehicles. For the release of other pollutants other than CO2, the Government has proposed that higher tax rates be fixed for diesel vehicles until the implementation of the EURO6 emission standard. Complements of the draft law, as prepared by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy for second reading, follow the objectives and maintain the effectiveness of the proposed solutions and are therefore supported by the Government. It is also in line with the applicable principles of the tax procedure, the amendment to Article 4, paragraph 3, which makes sense to build on the tax base procedures by taking into account the data contained in the vehicle evaluation catalogues and is therefore supported by the Government. With regard to the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for the establishment of new tax rates, I would like to point out [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Mr. Rezman, please turn off the microphone. Keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Such a system proposal would lead to a significant reduction in the current amount of tax revenue under this heading during a transitional period, if adopted, in view of the current situation, of course, the Government cannot support such an amendment. [[...]] In view of everything that the Government has said, it proposes to the National Assembly to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act, as drafted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, while at the same time proposing that a third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same time as the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Labour Authority. The presentation of the Committee's report should be made by a member of the Committee, Mrs Renata Brunskole, not in the Chamber. Members and members of the committee have received a report on the table, so we will proceed. Since the National Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 9th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 11. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors, Zares and DeSUS and LDS and the seven amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	Despite the fact that the Slovenian National Party's position on the decision or that this law is clearly and loudly stated, we are opposed for greater reasons, of course, we will do everything through the consideration of the amendments to help improve this law in order to make it more fair to some of the people concerned. In this case, I will focus mainly on the SDS amendment or some SDS amendments, which mainly concern the consequent changes in the prices of motorcycles, engines and how to measure the tax rates for these types of vehicles. As we have pointed out in the Slovenian National Party a million times that we cannot estimate the toll rate on the basis of engine capacity, but on the basis of weight, because the truck is twenty times heavier than the passenger car and with this weight twenty times more destroys the road, we would like to stress that we cannot set tax rates specifically for motorcycles with engine power, but it would be fairer to do so with engine capacity, given how long motorists drive in one year. These are parameters that are fair, these are parameters that speak in their own way and those tax rates that, of course, we are trying to lower in the SDS amendments are not fair. They are not fair and, of course, they are only eager to fill in all ways the state treasury and budget treasury. Of course, money is needed, but it should be obtained in a fair way. While we will do nothing in the way proposed in this law: nothing for safety, nothing for preservation of roads, nothing for saving, we will reduce consumption, people will drive in worse and older cars and engines, there will be fatal accidents, roads will be no better and better, and everyone will destroy them in the same way. In particular, I will stress this and relate myself, because perhaps one of my colleagues will also later turn to, I will point out once again, also on trucks, about which you will tell your colleague more. In short, I ask the Government once again to be reasonable in calculating taxes, to look at all parameters, to see how much time someone is driving, how much they are destroying, how much pollution the atmosphere is. Let him calculate the right parameters and then determine the tax rate, not the length and the rope. We're even running ahead of Europe. The European directives are perfectly clear when and how things should change, with us - of course, as always - we would like to be the first to run immediately to Europe and say, look how good we are, and in fact at the expense of people and when we do one thing good, believe me, many people are thinking the same way, we have done 10 things bad. Here much good could be done because the government has had a lot of help from the profession, a lot of help from people experienced in this area and from my experience I can prove them and from the experience of colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, no or no good assistance and content offered by them, the Government did not want to accept. I can prove that to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I would be most pleased if the Government, with this bill, did not come at all at this time, but if it had already come, of course there was something to say about it and it needed to be defined. If the basic pillar of the implementation of the green policy was, however, the government had completely passed. The biggest polluters on Slovenian roads are covered by some other laws and the government could come with some other laws if it wanted to follow. When I read blogs about this for the last days and weeks, he stayed in my memory or somehow the most personal with one block or with one opinion that went like this: "It is late to come to Kosovo and it is never too late. And let's give the politicians taxes by weight, height, age, eloquence and something else that the taxpayers will also have some of it." This is the point of this bill right now. I also believe that in this case we do act amateurally, as my colleagues said three days ago when he assessed the proposal of another law. All governments in the world, especially within the European Union, are looking at how they will reduce taxes and contributions and thus speed up sales and new economic growth, and we are doing the opposite. Other governments in this area, in terms of ecology and the field of automotive industry and sales, are taking subsidisation measures. When purchasing new vehicles and thus speeding up the sale and at the same time expelling old and used vehicles which are several times more polluting the environment than new passenger vehicles. This is, of course, part of the green policy or ecology. This proposal of ours has a number of wrong extensions and I will try through three, four of these extensions to argue this disagreement with this proposal. Just as the proposal itself is conceived, it is indirectly [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	My friend Kumer would not like to, but we have had a general debate on the law. We're talking about amendments. You want to talk about the amendments that relate to emissions, this is the SDS amendment? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	I'll start different.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	I'm asking for an amendment, Comrade Kumar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Yeah, yeah, I'll start different. [[....]] I support the amendments tabled by the SDS, because at least a little will soften the basic concept of this bill. In view of this, I will try three, four of my arguments to back up why I will support these amendments. For the first time, as established by law and as recorded, we are directly involved in co-ordinating prices on the market in the sale of motor vehicles and motorcycles. Secondly, the tabular distribution in kilowatts is unrealistic and discriminatory when we are talking about green policy, ecology and the release of unfriendly emissions. Thirdly, we don't penalize with higher taxes, as I said before, the biggest contaminants. These are mainly trucks on Slovenian roads, not to mention some other vehicles that are outside the highway and are also polluting. Therefore, it would be better to come up with a proposal to place this eco-tax or green policy at the price of a litre of petrol. Those who spend more, pay more, and put into this fund or into this bag for ecology. And the last. It would be very good for the money collected from this ecological tax to have a strictly purposeful consumption. It is said to return to the implementation of the Green Policy. I do not want the government to come to the expense of this ecological tax next year or two years with a proposal to buy new cars, and the government's driving park, which buys a few hundred kilowatts of heavy cars, will now buy a better, stronger car that pollutes our environment. And last but not least, why I support these proposals. This year, these are the facts - I am not a motorcyclist, but I feel for them now that they are in this situation. This year it happened for the first time, according to data, but because of the recession and obviously also economic, economic conditions, that more imported motorcycles from abroad have been registered in Slovenia than new ones have been sold. This suggests, unfortunately, the fact that Slovenia is becoming some kind of landfill or dump in this part of Europe for used and used vehicles. We have not yet introduced this additional ecological tax. Thus, this fact leads to the ecological orientation of this bill. So there will be significantly more environmentally unacceptable vehicles on the roads when implementing this law than we do now, and for this reason, of course, I support, because at least a bit of the proposed law, the amendments tabled by the SDS, will soften this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, then we'll give the round to the debate of course. Please, Mag. Andrei.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am rarely positively surprised in this House, and the debate of my predecessor was a great positive surprise to me. Thank you very much, Mr. Kumer. I am pleased that you are actually sharing the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party under this law. Of course, my joy would be much greater or it would probably be this idea that there is no point in further taxation during the economic crisis, so much greater if your fellow Members in the SD also shared this position and that they would eventually reject the whole law as inappropriate or at least accept our amendments in the most kind manner. I am also sure that it is very inappropriate, in times of financial and economic crisis, to impose an additional tax burden, to tax those, and even selectively to tax those who are even subsidised elsewhere in Europe. In fact, the Slovenian automotive industry is actually "truck" at the expense of subsidies introduced by other countries, Germany, France. In fact, the work of the Slovenian automotive cluster and the order of the Slovenian automotive cluster depend, of course, on the demand for cars produced in Germany or France. As a result, their policies also reflect on our economy. Instead of following this trend and introducing subsidies with us - by the way, the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this - we are now introducing new and higher taxes for virtually most motor vehicles, both cars and motorcycles and motorcycles. And it's actually very perfidious, under the cover of ecology. See, if the government is really worried about how it aims to improve the environment and reduce emissions through transport taxes, then it should first and foremost tax the largest contaminants. Here I fully agree with my forerunner. This is a transit that crosses Slovenia, which pigs across Slovenia, which emits emissions - and not only that, it also leaves garbage and everything else - and from this we have only damage to Slovenians. In fact, this traffic destroys Slovenian roads, motorways, garbage in Slovenia, and we treat this sector very carefreely, and we hit those poor people who want or need to buy a car, because the car is now the basic necessities of life. And not least, we're introducing a new tax on motors. So, I think it is primarily a very unfortunate attempt by the Government to tax only some segment under the cover of environmental efforts with some partial, partial approach to release a whole set of other segments that are also or are still more important in this ecological sense. I don't know what this proposal or similar proposals are dealing, for example, with the taxation of freight transport, tractors, ships, aircraft and many others that emit CO2. No, just one segment, that's that segment that's the most important and easy to tax. That is why I think that the type of shortcomings in this proposal is, and it is true that only one very narrow group of people may have dropped the tax, it is those who are actually buying the smallest vehicles, but only those who are buying the smallest ones. Everyone who buys a lower middle class, middle class and so on will be taxed more than ever after this proposal. Not to speak - and here I would really highlight the most important, I think, taxed according to my drastic, new drastic, those beginners who are still involved in the market, so that they should get some positive message and are just learning road safety. So those who go as road users, let's say, with a bike with a motorcycle. So far, no bikes have been taxed, they've been retaxed. And quite a lot. It is calculated how irritable they will be, because of this bike with engine and for how much less they will be available to these first participants. So, instead of encouraging these people to be placed on the market as soon as possible, we are removing this possibility from them by means of these taxes. In particular, I am talking about these smallest ones because they are also drasticly the smallest pollutants in the environment. So, the government has chosen to tax a segment of people who are or are about to become involved with mopeds. This is the disability of such proposals. This illustrates this nonsense of the proposal. The progressiveness of car taxation in terms of CO2 emissions is too high, in fact, as is not known by virtually any Member State of the European Union or is at a maximum. This is said to be such a drastic tax that no one knows, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose, within this Article 4 first, that this progressiveness of this tax scale should be reduced. We therefore believe that we should at least halve the tax scale set out in this proposal for cars. What is positive in this proposal - because something is also positive - is that taxation on CO2 emissions is introduced. That's positive. This is said not to be about cars, just no, I'm only talking about cars now, because then I'm going to get to the engines where the image is unfortunately different. For cars, emissions are the basis and there is no basis for any sales price that we know can depend on the whole set or talk about the rate, the rate depends on the emissions. Because that's what we're following in this environmental work. I don't know why the government hasn't similarly focused its attention on motorcycles or motorcycles and motorcycles. Producers also have emission data there. We went to some indirect data and finally landed on engine power. But I think we could follow the example here and go to work on the shows, not the power. Here is one disability of this proposal completely unnecessary. Then we also have some nonsense that has nothing to do with ecology. Following this new proposal, it is also envisaged that all engines be taxed exclusively on electricity. That is said, even cars, I don't know, motorcycles, electric bicycles will then be taxed with this tax, which aims to tax the polluters. And you know what the answer was? Here too, we propose, in this amendment in Article 4, that this tax rate is zero. The answer was that even, you know, that car on electric condition needs electricity that can be produced in Šostanje, which "pigs" the environment. Dearly beloved, all our second stay on this planet has some effect on CO2 emissions into the environment, and then it is likely that any human step should be taxed. If we take one step, we emit CO2 into the environment. We all know that. We're breathing. And there's also CO2 in our breath. So if we follow this logic that electric-powered cars are also responsible for CO2 emissions, then when we walk, when we relax and now the runners are likely to be going to Šmarna Gora or I to Shentvid, we have to pay for it because we walk and we emit more CO2. Listen, the absurdity of this proposal has never been seen before. Not to mention that those two-stroke engines are more taxed than a four-stroke engine and similar attractions can be found here. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to correct this text with the amendment at least a little bit. Thus, the amendment to Article 4 significantly reduces the progressiveness of car taxation. We are significantly reducing the rate of engine taxation and halving it here. We also eliminate these differences between two-stroke and four-stroke engines, delete the taxation of electric motors and the like. Once again, it would be best to respect that the Government withdraws this proposal. However, since this is unlikely to be procedurally possible, it must be rejected in its entirety, irrespective of the adoption of these amendments, and the Government must be obliged to prepare a package of systemic measures that will indeed aim to tax all participants in transport, and in particular transit through Slovenia, depending on how much they emit carbon dioxide and other "enoixes" and similar things into the environment. In this case, we could really talk about a marriage proposal that is concerned about the environment, which is concerned about nature, but I cannot see anything else from this proposal, but that it follows the goal of how a few million more euros to "get" into the state budget, even if it "deceases" part of the Slovenian economy that lives today from the sale of engines or from the sale of cars, including servicing, providing spare parts and so on. Even those who still perform the service are at little or little risk. And it would be wise for the government to wait at least for the worst blow of the economic crisis to pass, and then go with such a proposal. It would be good if it were already going with such a proposal today to at least give more transitional periods and thus mitigate the consequences for those who will be faced with preparing themselves not least. So, there is a kind of flaw and we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have tried to correct them through the amendments at least a little bit. I suggest to the government, go to the problem where the problem is the biggest. In emissions, the biggest problem is freight transit through Slovenia. Done. That's where you go, and then we can talk about it. Probably a lot of people who do not drive much across Slovenia do not breathe exhausts for trucks from southern countries, which are almost hard to detect in that smoke they cause, because only a cloud of smoke flowing through Slovenia. Here's to my core and the essence of the problem! If you also propose a proportional taxation of those who "pig" in Slovenia - okay, we will understand that. However, because you have first returned to those poor people who are most affected by this crisis, and have ignored all others, we are not able to support such a bill in any way. I hope that the position of Mr Kumr, who has previously presented the position of the Social Democrats - I regret to see that this position is merely an MP, Members are on the other side of more than 30 or 30, which means that even if one for our amendment does not mean that it will be adopted. But I hold my hand tightly that you have in your ranks more co-conspirators than you might at first glance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Lucky Friend signed up. Mr. Underpants, did you want one, too? Good. Lucky Friend, Iztok Podkrižnik, Victory Jelinčič The noble is the order of the next three. Please, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Yes, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act certainly does not follow the basic objective, namely ecology. If it had followed the basic objective, these amendments would have been adopted today and, of course, the largest contaminants in this law would not have been released from this law when CO2 was released and the environment was polluted. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already repeatedly warned that we should tax mainly trucks, this transit traffic, because Slovenia is a transit country and is rolling through Slovenia a huge amount of this heavy load that pollutes the environment and actually unnecessarily destroys roads. We have Slovenian railways completely unused, and I hope that it will be better once the Prime Minister holds a monthly meeting of the College of Directors. Perhaps even because of this, or perhaps just because it is considered and "after yours", this billion euro is being spent, which is intended for the reconstruction of rail infrastructure. If this is the cause, we will not solve anything in this area. I would like to draw attention to something else, even if we accept these amendments, the law for the Slovenian National Party is not acceptable. However, the duality of the National Assembly should be knocked on by the fact that the Road Safety Act is the most frequently amended law. We allowed trucks more basic pressure, we reduced penalties, and so we opened this law four times in the previous term. And actually privileged truckers are now contaminating the environment and destroying the highway that we're going to have to pay for, this highway connection, and our explorers. And I don't know if we're gonna pay that debt. Therefore, it would be really wise, already 100 times in the National Assembly, to consider going to combined transport and especially heavy transit goods and that which destroys roads in an ecological sense, to turn to railways. We can do this now and we will do a huge deal in this area! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has the Istok Podkrižnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honorable President. Dear Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. Now, it's been said a lot, so a lot of adding here is probably going to be very, very hard. We have also discussed Natura 2000 days ago, and we have also devoted a great deal to this topic - it is said, as far as ecology itself is concerned. As far as priority is concerned, I think it was all mentioned. As far as public transport is concerned - I think this is actually a priority because there are too many trucks, passenger cars and all the other traffic on our roads. Then the transport infrastructure is also important, because I think there is still a lot to be done here, and this transit itself is someone who really redirects to the railway. I think that would be really good for ecology. Secondly, now to teach people about ecology with some small things, and the bits here leave large pollutants, this transit, such as - certainly - the ecologically controversial industry, I don't think that's encouraging. So this is where we're supposed to do these things on the other end. I have one suggestion. So this automotive industry in Europe is quite present, very strong. Legislation, as far as traffic speed is concerned - in most European countries these limits are 130 kilometres per hour. I would have a proposal to give me the initiative to give these producers a signal somehow, to start producing cars that would be limited to a speed of 130 kilometres per hour and with a smaller cubatura. I mean, that would be a big, big help to the ecology itself. The same applies here for other vehicles. If we are already introducing this ecological tax, this tax should in fact be for ecological purposes. I do not see from this bill that these means, if this law is adopted - which I do not think is good - are also intended for this purpose. This would be good: if people are already paying this tax, and what we are proposing with the amendment in Article 4, it would be positive in the sense that we are all aware that each individual must help to put every single inch of it into this area to improve. It would be good for people to learn something from it. This law or this amendment, which we have tabled, could act preventively. As far as sales are concerned and orders are being made to traders selling these motor vehicles, I think that's a bad thing. In my opinion, the country receives the highest VAT from this title - from the middle and high class of motor vehicles - on the one hand: from the very price of these motor vehicles, on the other hand, from the service of these motor vehicles and from the additional equipment of these vehicles. I don't see the logic here. As a result, in Slovenia we will no longer drive the medium or high or luxury class of these cars and consequently I think that the funds will significantly less come into the budget itself and the state treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'll support the amendments. Of course, because that's not the way it works. Nevertheless, the law is another proof of the inability of the Slovenian government to do something good in this area. For these amendments, at least to some extent, correct the horrendous intentions of this law, which is meaningless, incomplete and does not really know what it wants - except to collect some money quickly, and to put it all in the hole of the budget. There's talk of releases, but there's talk of stronger engines having bigger releases. It's kind of implied. That's not true. With new technologies, for the first time, stronger engines consume less fuel, which means they have smaller releases. Of course, the government allows its actions only to purchase old vehicles for the Slovenian market, which still have terrible releases. If we look at what's going on on Slovenian roads, we see that there are a whole range of trucks from Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, which absolutely do not meet the standards of the European Union and which can only lead to Slovenia and through Slovenia. To arrange the traffic by picking up these trucks and bringing them through Slovenia, that's not it! And we have some GH holding company run again by Mr Miklavčič, who has already done a lot of bad things on the railways. Of course, his secretary is Mr. Šimenc again! I think we should say something about how, what, why. But no! Now Mr Pahor will hold meetings once a month, what I know, railway administrations. Yeah, what's he gonna do? I don't know when they've been teaching things at the FDV to save businesses. I mean, it's just the people in there that are packed up, and they sure as hell won't do anything good for the railroads. But if we listen to Pahor talking about how he's going to be there, what a fantastic day it's going to be, and there's going to be a billion euros coming back - I think that's bad. Other matters related to these trucks could also be done for environmental awareness. Take a ride from Ljubljana to Maribor sometime, and I tell all those who don't drive on this route, and you'll see what it means to get ahead of the trucks. They beat each other up with 80, 90 kilometers an hour. The one who beats it has a speed of one kilometer more than the one he beats. And: accidents, pollution, road loads and so on. One wonders who collects money from these transporters' gentlemen and puts it in his pocket to prefer the damage in the Slovenian country to the benefit some have. I think it's terrible, and it would be better if we introduced an ecological tax on the border, just like the Montenegrins did. Every motor vehicle that comes to Montenegro - pok has to pay so much and so much. And Europe didn't blow anything up! And there's one more thing. Montenegrins had the euro earlier than Slovenia, and Europe did not jump into the air. We had to provide all the Maastricht criteria and all the controls. They didn't need it. They did, and they have it all. Of course, we are swallowing up all the shit that Europe is pushing us to do, and we will, as it turns out, be doing this. Now, if we were to import old timers, I'd say great. There is a rich heritage, the technical heritage of the Slovenian nation or civilization at all. Oh, no! We're going to import old "klumpaste" trucks, cars, engines because the government is going to make sure that some Slovenian doesn't buy anything new, except the government, which is going to buy some new cars out of this money, as my friend Kumer said, probably buys some new cars.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. We are discussing amendments to Article 4. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President. I would like to stress once again this difference that we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party with regard to the ruling principle on these tax issues. So in times of economic and global financial crisis, the government, the Slovenian economy, should encourage economic activity, through burdens and, of course, through stimulating population consumption. This can be done to relieve the economy of administrative and financial burdens and, on the other hand, encourage people to consume, so as to encourage them to buy, say, cars, apartments and the like. On the one hand, tax cuts and on the other hand incentives for purchases. We listen to the obvious how to encourage purchases if we have less money in the cash register. In the case of Germany, it was shown that the imposition of subsidies for the purchase of a car had a positive impact on the state treasury situation because the subsidy was less cost-effective than the State had received a tax through higher consumption. As a result of the economic activity of those who produced cars, she received more tax than she paid for the subsidies. Therefore, this measure has already been financially positive for the country in the short term. She gave something, the citizens added something else, and through taxes and economic activity, the country got everything it gave and more back. It's a smart economic policy. And luckily, the vast majority of our Slovenian automotive industry "truck" on these measures they introduced in Germany and France. The current power, and the government is doing exactly the opposite. It wants to fill the state budget by tightening the tax screw to tighten and increase taxes. This is one example, the motor vehicle tax is one of these cases where we want to increase the taxation of cars, virtually everyone, and engines, a little more flows into the state cash register. There are other cases where motor vehicles are also tanning. Look, a senior official of this government mag. Janez Kopač announced the introduction of duties to promote renewable resources and efficient use and said that the fuel oil will be evenled to oil prices on petrol services, meaning that the fuel oil will be stimulated by about 70%. Why? Because he's going to impose a tax that he's going to use, God knows what he's going to do, but people are going to pay a lot more expensive fuel. And not just people, but the economy. I want to say that the new tax screws are an inappropriate measure in times of economic crisis and are applied only by those who have no idea and do not understand the situation. And with respect, through taxation, virtually all types of cars and motors will only cause less sales, people will drive with older ones and more pollution of the environment and will also affect all those in this chain, from the production to the sale and service of motor vehicles. I think it's an unwise policy and we oppose it. That's one thing. It's the other thing. I'm going to illustrate one more case of how this marriage is unfair. You're saying he's gonna follow up on paying more for those who pollute more. Look, you're re-imposing a tax on motorcycles, it's called motorcycles. We need to know that the engines make an average of about 3500 to 4,000 kilometers and have a half - shorter driving season: that is, in winter you can’t see them or the motorists on the roads are very rare. In short, engines emit significantly less into the atmosphere due to fewer kilometres and shorter driving seasons. So, regardless of engine power, and for the rest of them, they broadcast less. However, they are taxed several times more in terms of engine power and emissions than cars. And when we compared engines and cars, we found that engines are on average 10 times more taxed, given how much carbon dioxide is emitted into the environment than cars. Why? What for? It's not fair! Why is this group of motorists now hit so hard with these taxes? And just a little bit of that we want to fix through this amendment. And there's one more thing. I hope that the government will explain why it is taxing electric motors after the new and explain why it does not tax locomotives. These were electric vehicles, too, weren't they? They also consume energy, which is some kind of carbon dioxide emitter into the environment. So why are the locomotives - no, and the electric car - yes? There are so many inconsistencies and illogicalities in this proposal that I could probably list them by evening, but I will stop here because there are probably more colleagues to say about this nonsense of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I might also touch these tables myself in Article 4 and the amendments to this Article. I support this amendment, and I believe that in fact, to this lowest class, a class that has a CO2 release of between 0 and 110 grams per kilometer, should not be a tax. In the previous debate alone, this is the first important fact, I have discussed in particular that the difference between petrol engines and diesel engines is simply too great. In these lower classes, where the difference is two times, diesel engines are twice as taxed as petrol engines. Indeed, diesel engines have some emissions that they do not have, here I am thinking mainly of dust particles, but dust particles certainly cannot create as much damage to the environment as is evident through this tax on fact, if we know the composition of motor gasoline, which have quite a few extremely dangerous ingredients, including benzene, which has a lot of aromatic compounds, a lot of compounds, which are extremely volatile and which also produce much more in the environment in handling than in the case of diesel fuels. These two matters should certainly be taken into account in these tables as well as in these taxes. The next thing that bothers me is that in higher classes, if we take a class of 230 to 250 grams of CO2 discharge per kilometer, the difference of 1.13 or over 250 is just 1.1. Why the difference in lower classes is twice as high, while the difference is significantly lower in higher classes. You really get the feeling that you want to encourage the purchase of those cars that have higher CO2 emissions. And if we make another cross-reference with a table that provides for the taxation of motor bikes when it says that up to including 25 kilowatts is a rate from the tax base of 4%. If we recalculate it, it's about 40 horsepower. And if we know that cars that emit 110 grams of CO2 per kilometer have 80, 90 horsepower, but in this case, the tax is 0.5 and 1 for diesel, we're actually overreacting if we're talking about CO2 emissions. If we're talking about something else, then we have to say it. But there can be no scooter or mopeds with 40 horsepower, compared to, for example, a pole with a lower emissions than 110 grams of CO2 per kilometer, being four times more taxed if we talk about CO2 emissions, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like some European comparability when we are dealing with such important issues as today, and if it is an excuse to introduce a supplement to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act simply because of pollution, because it is an ecological issue, then I must point out that we have taken a very bad path. We have witnessed a number of times so that we too can do the right thing wrong. I don't know why we just can't look across the border and copy things, because for example, Germany and France are here. The incentive to buy new cars that are made with high technological added value in the Euro Eco-tech class is certainly a solution. Because they're the smallest contaminants. The motorways end and yet we find that the highway is only one construction site. This shows that we have a very heavy burden in Slovenia, in transport. Slovenia will continue to remain a transit country, so that the increasingly heavy transit cargo will flow through Slovenia, stressing that the port will spread. Of course, there will only be more of this cargo, less of it. We do not want to take advantage of this advantage that we have in order to bring about the parallelity of the flow, we do not want it to be a railway, even though we will spend 1,000 or billion euros on the current railway, because this year we are earmarking €380 million from the budget, billions of amounts will be spent on infrastructure by the end of this mandate. I believe that the environmental, in the sense of ensuring less pollution, will not happen. The trucks will still be on the road. The highways will be completely destroyed because they are already today. Go from Kopra to Maribor, you will see, this is just a construction site, just doing and actually correcting what we have already built. However, it is interesting that the builders will be sure, but I say this in order to write down, GH holding will be one of these builders, and also these government meetings will probably not be for the Prime Minister to help himself, but for the proper commitment of the already planned contractor. If we really want something good, then [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Once again, let us open the Road Traffic Safety Act, change the axle load that we have essentially increased for trucks and increase the penalties for trucks. [[...]] In particular, taxation in this area must be first and consistently also collected through an ecological tax or on the basis of an exemption. In particular, because Slovenia allows older trucks to carry goods along motorways, while, as has already been said and heard in this National Assembly, these other countries have long banned them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't care about the environment, about the healthy environment, about the nature of the first one in a scale. And so is I, I'll say, one of the first things. The law introduced by the Government must have the right purpose, but the question is when such laws are adopted. We are in a time of economic crisis when the economy needs to be helped by entrepreneurs. I guess we can't help them with their taxes in some way. I am sorry, and I must be critical here also of the previous governments, the governments of Janez Janša, as well as of the previous governments, when the money was in abundance, that they did not adopt such laws at the time, because there was also a problem of ecology, nature, etc. That's why it's too much to politicize today, to talk about who's smarter than someone else. I am mainly for one reason only, and this is that this moment in the difficult times of the economy we are helping, this law and also the amendments that the SDS has given I will not accept, so I will vote, not by my conscience, as it is popular to say, but by talking to entrepreneurs, the economists that this moment is not the wisest move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Chapich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State! Of course, Parliament is a source of different opinions. And it's good to have these different opinions about the same thing and when we talk. Today, when I listen to these opinions here, I think we're talking about different things and that's why they're so different. The motor vehicle tax law itself has several parts, but we are not talking about one at all, and in my opinion, the most important thing is to stop the tax evasion of imports of old worn-out, inappropriate vehicles within it. That's what this law says, too, in an important part. I must say, when we discussed this with the merchants, this part of the marriage was greatly welcomed. They too agreed that these things must be limited, disabled and given in some way. Furthermore, the law taxes registered vehicles, passenger and motor bicycles, but does not tax trucks, without prejudice to the field of freight transport, which I agree with the discussions that have been in this assembly, to the extent or most polluting this traffic. I drive myself many times on the route Ljubljana - Maribor, Maribor - Ljubljana. When I get behind a truck, because you can't get ahead of yourself, you're really in the middle of a stinking exhaust. And that's really the problem. But unfortunately, we cannot solve this problem with this law, and with any other law, it will have to be resolved. This law is also probably not comparable to some other European laws, because, at least after the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Finance provided it is an attempt where we wanted to bring environmental and tax effects into a unit. Therefore, such a tax scale has been proposed which reduces the basic tax on motor vehicles, which has so far been for vehicles with minor CO2 emissions into the atmosphere or in operation. To some extent more modern, better vehicles reduce the tax itself. These are also calculations that we have had and have shown very well that this is true. It is also true that in Slovenia we still produce some cars where we do not achieve these goals. And there, too, for a transitional period, as agreed, we tried to find a model, some things, so for this transitional period we also reduced taxes and agreed. I must say that when I participated in the consideration and debates of this law, I think we have taken into account to a large extent the opinion of the sellers, which is the most, the Chamber of Commerce for the sale of these vehicles as well as the producers, and we have listened to them, where it was only possible that we have kept at least some of the spirit of this law. The spirit of this law is in two, three areas. For the first time, to stop and prevent tax evasion and chaining things that have occurred and, on the other hand, to encourage the purchase of vehicles that are more environmentally friendly and to in some way punish or attempt to restrict the purchase of the most polluted old environmentally friendly vehicles. This is mainly the import of old vehicles from other countries and also the encouragement of traders and producers to purchase and offer more modern vehicles to the Slovenian market. Therefore, these transitional periods are one year, and so they are also slightly lower tax rates during this period, because that is what these sellers have pointed out that they are already ordering for 2010 and 2011 and that this area would be well arranged for them. Maybe that's it. Why are there no CO2 emissions in motorcycles but kilowatts? We've been told that they don't have the number of releases in their approvals. At least in most ways. So, of course, that's what they said, and that's why, of course, it was the power of the engine that was written in the law, not the CO2 emissions. I think it'll be possible to reconcile that. We also agreed in the law on what the euro is five and the euro six, we tried to harmonise the euro five in particular, because it is six technologies in the euro, which are in the making and today very rare and are rare producers. I will, of course, support the first amendment to Article 4, which is also one that attempts to sanction tax evasion or some irregular taxation, that is, when will the tax authority and what will be used to evaluate older vehicles, and I will not support the other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Well-known Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. I must say that this law has been prepared by the Government at the wrong time and is also far from what Slovenia would need. Why did we decide and table the amendments? In order to at least partially correct this corrupt law that the Government has actually proposed. The tax to be collected now must be given by the Government to what it is intended for. Or, again, for the further expansion of the actual public office, public services or, in fact, this tax will be earmarked for a better environment for Slovenia. I would like to point out that you can only watch in the Piran season as buses pollute the environment. If this money is meant for electric buses, then I agree. That's how it's supposed to be in all the big cities. Not likely to fill a hole that the state bureaucrat actually uses more from day to day or actually makes a bigger hole. Nor is anyone so aware that these buses, waiting for 15 or 20 minutes, would turn off their engines and have electrical air conditioning. The bus must be on fire and pollute the environment, which is already polluted in Slovenia. Here I see no reason to increase the tax on motor vehicles to engines that drive five, six months a year, or even less. Nor is it defined which motor vehicles are more polluting the environment or which are less. Slicing is a very relative thing. You're also dropping into Euro 4 vehicles. In Slovenia, there are many Euro 4 vehicles, but it would be too severe to go to the extra charge on Euro 4 vehicles. We agree with Euro 3 vehicles, but with Euro 4 we certainly do not. You're talking about the Euro 6 vehicles that won't be around much longer. Don't talk about who's not here or will be in two or three years. You also say that this tax is intended for the importation of old vehicles and for the evasion of the taxes of the sellers of these vehicles. You're not gonna cut anything with that. There should be other measures for this, not such a measure. If an additional tax is imposed on these vehicles, then I see no reason for the number to be lower. It is necessary to determine by which year old vehicles may be imported, but not just on average. I am absolutely in favour of this marriage being rejected. Let him prepare himself as he must. This in this time of economic crisis, which is worldwide, not only in Slovenia, could be smaller in Slovenia than it is, but unfortunately. All measures are pointless or irregular and therefore the Slovenian economy is lower every day. But red tape is spreading, I'm afraid. If it were the other way around, it would be commendable. The citizens of Slovenia would expect this, not just us here. Wages for people working in public administration are not a problem, but wages for people working in the economy are a major problem. It's hard to direct how people have 600 euros in economic pay, to say the least. And with this tax to be collected, I am a hundred percent that this money would not be intended to expand the economy, to develop the economy, but as I said, for additional jobs instead of job cuts, public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Respected and respected! I don't know what we're talking about. Yesterday, we spent quite some time adopting a declaration on climate change. At that time, support for the opposition SDS was left at that point because it was assessed as an empty shot and that concrete measures were missing in the fight against climate change. Then, a day later, we come up with a second reading of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which realizes one of these objectives. What's our problem? We know what key polluters are. Why do too many emissions, greenhouse gases, also blow up in Slovenia? Because we have such transit through the country as we have, and I strongly agree with it and we are also dealing with it. We have said that the strategic direction is to strengthen transit and to move this transit onto railways, and I think we have in the debate a new tolling system on the principle that the user and, read, the polluter pays, to a greater extent, to encourage this transit to the railway, because it will also pay the economy better. Therefore, we need to maximize our investment plans in the area of modernisation of the railway network, where unfortunately the legacy of the previous government is not quite shining. More. We need to do something about public passenger transport. We also need to change the structure of the passenger vehicle rolling stock. We can do this in two ways. One is to encourage the buyer of new vehicles to think about what the trend is today. And today the trend is not to drive a large road mastodon, but to drive ecological vehicles, environmentally friendly vehicles, with as few CO2 emissions as possible. In another way, of course, we can also approach it by smart incentives and subsidising the purchase of environmental vehicles. I can say that we are also taking an active look at this in coalition lines. We are facing concrete energy measures, in agriculture and in other areas as well. The opponents of the proposed regulation argue that this will have a negative impact on the global economic and financial crisis. Your friends, the U.S. neoliberals, can tell you firsthand how the crisis can be used for major changes. Unfortunately, these changes were mainly civil, economic and social in terms of favour, firm hand, as well as many fatalities throughout the world, from South America to Russia. Today is the time for change. We are trying to make these changes positive, pursuing the goal of actively responding as a country as a civilisation to the necessary adjustments in order to stop and mitigate the consequences of climate change and do something. One step in this direction is this. As far as the scale and the amendment are concerned, let me say that the situation is very interesting. Let's see how these things are handled today. We see that if we estimate that the selling price of the average vehicle of the most selling vehicle in Slovenia is somewhere between 12,000 and 14,000 euros, which means up to three million tolars. In view of the fact that we still have this value in our present law, we see that this vehicle was taxed today at a rate of 5%. The new proposal represents a significant reduction in the tax burden on advanced vehicles. If we count advanced vehicles there up to at least 150 grams of emissions per kilometer, we see that we are at the same level as the current law provides. However, in advanced classes with smaller releases, this point is significantly reduced. Mr. Ziherl said yesterday that he was driving a golf diesel with discharges, as far as we checked, 99 grams per mile. This golf course, costing about 3 million former Slovenian tolls or around 15,000 to 20,000 euros, will be significantly less taxed today. Why? Because we also need to change the structure of the rolling stock in the area of passenger cars. I think the amendment stands in the way of our common ambition. I would like this ambition to be truly shared and not to have such a gap between what we like to talk about advanced policies and what we are doing. I will be the law, as it is without this amendment, which I think is harmful to these ambitions, absolutely supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I therefore reopen the application for a debate on Article 4 and on all amendments to this Article. Mr. Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Yesterday we adopted a declaration on climate change, already mentioned by my colleague Matevž Frangež. In the debate on the declaration, it was said that the declaration would be followed by steps in the fight against climate change, which will sometimes be unpleasant and sometimes painful, because we all have to change our habits together, our lifestyles. Something else was said yesterday. That on the road, a thousand miles long, which we started with one step yesterday, the second step will follow today. And here we are. This is a second step on the path of the necessary measures and certainly not a sufficient step because others will follow. However, we are questioning our future on this issue. I know that such a claim seems exaggerated if we are talking about just one sectoral measure. But, as we say, you have to make them, one by one. What will we do if we do not act? The government could say that the world will not end in 2012, but some say that it is, but we hope not. And the government could say that. We won't touch that. We'll let the next government handle this. And the next one would say, we'll let the next government save both the next and the next. And that way, we will never solve the problem until the problem solves us. It's important that we move this step forward. It is important that we act now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Brunscoll. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. Today we are so quick that I too have been rushed by my personal time to present the report of the Committee on Finance. However, let me say that in today's debate, there has been a very interesting debate, and there is probably no one among us who would not agree that support is a greater concern for environmental issues or even in the field, on one side of life and work that accompany us. On the one hand, we also need to take care of healthy life in a desire for employment. The concern for the tax environment and, on the other hand, environmental issues were also very varied and interesting here in the National Assembly, perhaps even more so at the meeting of the Finance Committee. I also agree with the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as some of the fellow Members who have tabled them. The point is also that in preparing the amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act itself, it was also an important moment to align with those who largely provide jobs and jobs in the automotive industry in Slovenia. More than 100,000 people in Slovenia are employed in the automotive industry, as contract manufacturers of individual spare parts or parts for vehicles, or if I mention the largest manufacturer in Slovenia, Revoz plant in New Town, which provides a lower, Posavska, Belokranj and Zasavska pool for sure also a large amount of employment. Only this company is connected in Slovenia, all the way to Koroška and around, more than 20,000 people who are employed in this activity. It was also a matter of harmonising with the automotive industry so that we would not have any tax exacerbation, i.e. any change in legislation that would have been hindered by these producers, and on the other hand only a transitional period of one year. At that time, with great emphasis and listening to environmental issues, these companies or producers must also adapt to this. I myself support changes and additions to the law in a desire for a healthy and clean, unspoiled nature and a healthy environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want some? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. This law has nothing to do with the declaration on climate change, as previously referred to by a colleague from SD. There are also very few links to ecology and environmental issues. Because it additionally burdens and substantially taxes motorists or motorcycles. If you really had any connection to this, then this tax should be lower, not larger. This law has a purely fiscal or tax significance. If it were true that it was reducing tax burdens, how could there be more than €20 million in revenue foreseen in 2010 in financial terms? I fear that there is already one part of that package of additional taxation of the population arising from the 2010 and 2011 Memorandum, where the so-called environmental burden of pollutants is estimated at around €180 million. One part of this package is obviously this law. This is the law that will most burden those on the one hand who cannot afford to buy personal vehicles and ride motors and those who are environmentally conscious because they ride by motors and bicycles instead of by passenger cars. That's the problem with this marriage. I am afraid that this law is followed by another law, which has already been announced by Mr Kopač, which will equal the price of heating oil to diesel fuel. It is said that anyone unable to adapt overnight to another heating system will double the cost of heating and household costs. That's the wrong policy. This policy is not well thought out. If this policy were to be considered, it would then be possible to stimulate measures allowing the transition to renewable energy, as far as heating is concerned, both as regards solar heating systems as well as solar power plants, and as regards the transition to wood biomass. However, in this area, there is just the opposite policy. Last year, the former government established a centre for renewable energy and the protection of the environment, which the government has abolished. She wouldn't even let him do the first step. The aim was to accelerate the use of European funds for environmental investments, contrary to all the big words and with what you said yesterday in this declaration, full of beautiful words weak in action. It makes no sense to waste hours and discuss things you do not do as you declare. Yamaha FZ6 will increase by €470 under this law. Honda Goldwing for 2720 euros. It's organic, I ask you? Probably not. Instead of encouraging those who use those vehicles and means of transport that are more environmentally acceptable by their own means of handling and operations, they are additionally taxed. And here Mr Kumer is right when he says that not only is your amendment inappropriate in this regard and that he supports our amendment, he even says that this law is not appropriate at this time. This can be agreed upon. We talked about this six months ago when we proposed lowering tax bases to promote private consumption, which all European countries have done because they did not look very fiscally and by lowering taxes, they have led to significantly more money coming into state treasury than they would have otherwise. And our government is looking at a narrow, narrow bureaucratic, narrow administrative, and I think if we raise taxes, more money will come. It's just wrong. And that's what's gonna happen. These financial implications, which have been assessed here, will not be such as to prevent the purchasing ambitions of those who would otherwise have and benefit from if the least support from the State were for this purpose. For this reason, at least the amendment should be supported if the law as a whole is already bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I then conclude the debate on Article 4 and the amendments to this Article and turn to the debate on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Article 14 introduces a transitional period and it would be best for this law to be a transitional period of two or three years in order to resolve, at least in part, these first negative effects of the crisis, to breathe the economy, to bring consumers to their senses and to obtain these higher taxes later. Before I heard one of the debaters, it was Member Han who rushed to discuss the futility of this law and at the same time pointed out to the previous government that it was her fault that she had not already introduced it in the time of the fat cows during the conjuction. The former government had a completely different approach. The former government has been taxing the economy and people, not burdening the economy and people. This is a difference, and our government would never do such nonsense to selectively strike at some, especially after those who have a problem with life, let alone to bear new tax burdens. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed to mitigate the consequences of the increase in taxes on motor vehicles during the transitional period. The main purpose is to try, perhaps even during this transitional period, when we expect additional government measures, to consider whether they are too high and possibly lower. I would suggest to the current government that, on the basis of the discussions of the coalition Members, it should also consider and make the tax burden really proportionate to pollution. Not to expose certain segments, but to ignore some completely. That's not right. And probably when this proposal is on the table, the government itself would have seen it hit this group, which is now taxing it, too. Therefore, I believe that the transitional period is also wise for this possibility of a correctional examination to be seen by the rulings and coalitions during this transitional period, but that they have indeed exaggerated here. Perhaps in this article I would also highlight some kind of perversion that I have witnessed today. On the one hand, some of the coalition members speak, here I would point out to Mr Kumr and Mr Han how pointless it is at the time of the crisis to additionally tax people, to tighten the belt to many people and, on the other hand, to the majority of the Group of Members who will support it. Someone who is following this thought: Yes, because the Social Democrats speak wisely. But we heard one who spoke wisely, and 29 others will press the button and support these solutions, or 28 or 27 — enough to be established and people will get their asses kicked, and not just people, and the economy. I ask you whether anyone has made a financial balance of this measure, how much will come into the state budget due to these increased taxes, and how much will they indirectly leave the state budget for the introduction of these taxes, since it will be less sold, at least for a while, resulting in fewer dropouts and, last but not least, some more unemployed. This sector will find these new tax burdens more difficult to live on, and therefore who will land on the road and thus cause the country to spend. I don't think anybody did that calculation, and that's the problem, and that's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Crossbow, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! There isn't much time left, but I think this leap on my head isn't always the best, and I think it's too fast, and I think we need to move on this. This proposal, this transitional period - I think it is good, and I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening the application because I can still see the hands. We are talking about Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I would only warn that the transitional period already exists, is already foreseen. It's only about whether or not we will. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] either we give in to our comfortable lives or we decide to introduce green taxes. [[...]] Also during the transitional period that we are introducing. I hear today's not the time. There's never time, there's always time, because you have to now [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE BANKING LEGISLATION. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The amendment of the law, which is in the second reading, addresses three key areas. The first area concerns the treatment of the State guarantee for bank deposits. This is the implementation of the European Directive, which was last amended in 1994 and raises the country's guarantees for bank deposits from EUR 20,000 to EUR 50,000. In doing so, it should be noted that we want to implement this directive into our law, while at the same time it is already in the process of amending the European Directive, which will most likely raise this amount to 100,000 euros in 2010. In 2010, we are still subject to the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which in fact gives the State unlimited guarantees of bank deposits, which means that even if the provision in the Banking Act is amended, the regime of changes in the financial crisis will still apply at this time. All right, this is why the Government does not favour the adoption of an amendment that raises the guarantee to EUR 100,000 and considers it more appropriate to wait until 2010, when the directive will also be implemented and only then adapt legislation. The other amendments to the law we are proposing are changes relating to the so-called EU mandate of the Bank of Slovenia, which provides for greater cooperation in monitoring with other EU members. Some additional reporting requirements for the branches of the Member States’ banks and third countries that have branches in Slovenia are also abolished. This is mainly the reporting of data not relevant to customers in banks but more relevant to the supervisory function. We also propose an exemption from the scheme of guaranteed applications for the role of collective investment firms, the role of pension funds and the role of covert insurance funds. Another solution is incorporated into the law, which provides for more cooperation between supervisory authorities and the system of guaranteed roles between Member States. This is a brief amendment to the law before you, and I suggest you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, the Council of Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! At its 11th meeting, on 28 October 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which provides specific warnings to Articles 2 and 14 of the legislative proposal. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee also adopted the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance. On the basis of the warnings sent to the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment was submitted by the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 2 and 14 and by the SDS Group to Articles 14 and 16 of the legislative proposal. The main objective of the text is the partial transposition of Directive 2009/14 of the European Council into the Slovenian legal order, subject to the regulation of the so-called EU mandate for the Bank of Slovenia and the simultaneous unification of the rules on the revision and publication of the data of branches of banks from Member States and third countries. As part of the additional explanation for the opinion of that service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 2 and 14 followed those warnings of that service. The explanation of the SDS amendment to Article 14 and the substantive amendments to Article 16 gives rise to the proposal to increase bank guarantee established in the Republic of Slovenia for payment of the guaranteed deposit at the bank over which the bankruptcy procedure to the net deposit status of EUR 100,000 was initiated. At the same time, the representative of the Government stressed that the system of guaranteed deposits in our legal order introduces the current amendment to the Council Directive, which raises the amount of guaranteed deposits from EUR 20,000, which was adopted in 1994, and has not been amended since then, to EUR 50,000. Otherwise, a further increase of the level of guarantee is also envisaged to EUR 11,000, which Member States are expected to implement by the end of 2010. Therefore, in the view of the Government, at the submission of an increase in the level of guarantee to EUR 100,000, it is still valid to wait for the introduction at European level. As we currently have a provision in our regulations which provides for an unlimited guarantee of the State for applications by the end of 2010, the amendment in the coming year will not even be valid. In the context of its consideration, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 14 of the legislative proposal by SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14 has not been adopted by the Committee, it has become a substantive amendment of the same proposer to Article 16 of the legislative proposal irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes both adopted amendments, has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present. More or less, this Banking Act is being amended to transpose the directives into our legal system and we have no reservations in this regard in the Slovenian Democratic Party. One of the major changes already mentioned in the presentation by the representative of the Government relates to the level of the guaranteed role. We know this is an important question. How important this issue was last year, on 8 October 2008, when the then Finance Minister, Mr Bajuk and then Prime Minister Janez Janša, came before Slovenia and Slovenia and said that their roles were safe in Slovenian banks, up to an unlimited amount. This was the assurance which was necessary, fast and which worked in such a way that, although we decided on this change in the National Assembly two months later, it prevented the problems of banking in the Republic of Slovenia. And also because of these rapid reactions of the bank in Slovenia or our financial system did not suffer any loss. Panic was prevented, and perhaps even worse. If the Pahor's government followed this example and released the liquidity spasm, which is still ongoing, then Slovenia would certainly not have fallen as deep as it has in the last year. This unlimited guarantee for nutritional claims shall be valid until the end of the following year. This amendment foresees that this guarantee should be limited to EUR 50 000 after 1 January 2011. We do not see in the Slovenian Democratic Party any reason to oppose the Government of our amendment, where we propose this raise to EUR 100,000, which will be, both by means of a directive which, as Mrs Kamnar has already said, must be put into effect in the procedure with 1. 1. 2011. We see no reason why we should make that decision in the National Assembly, in all the difficult procedure. However, with the amendment of this legislation, it is possible to miss out on one other part in order to ensure a better functioning of the Bank of Slovenia and, above all, to allow more effective control over the exceptional decisions taking place in individual business banks. We know that in the past we have witnessed the approval of a number of loans to politically compatible individuals regarding management acquisitions and other areas. And even today, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, despite the parliamentary supervisory committee, has not received any information on the way in which, in December, when the credit crunch was at its peak, multi-million-dollar loans were granted in euros that were inadequately insured to the company co-ownered by Minister Golobič, i.e. Ultra. We also did not get the exact figures on the two bonds purchased at the time when Mr Gaspari, the current minister, led the Bank of Slovenia. We read in the newspapers days ago that Banka Slovenije filed a claim of $54.1 million. This decision was taken at a time when Mr Gaspari was at the top of the Bank of Slovenia, who not only did not respond in any way, was making progress. He is now Minister of the Pahor government. At that time, Mr Nučič sat in the Council of the Bank, which is now in a high position in the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Božo Jaševič, who is even the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. The Bank of Slovenia was extremely generous in controlling the approval of so-called management loans during the period led by Mr Gaspari, which we also read in the newspapers. We were able to read in the newspaper that the largest quota of this happened during the period when Mr Gaspari led the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. between 2004 and 2008. It is interesting, however, that at that time or in a period of time earlier in the world of Banka Slovenije there were people sitting there who then received these management loans. I am talking about Mrs Tatjana Fink, who carried out the management takeover of Trim Trebnje, I am talking about Mr Binet Kordez, who performed the management takeover of Mercury and so on. The package, the integration of policies and individual actors under the same policy option is one which, in our view, would also make sense through this amendment of the Banking Act, but unfortunately there is a missed opportunity here. However, we expect at least our amendment to be supported and a greater guarantee given for people's applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Willy Rezman, who is not. Mr Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Banking Act has been amended three times so far. This time, we have a fourth amendment, which partially brings the March of this year Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council to our legal order. The biggest amendment made by this bill is a change in the arrangements for the system of guaranteed deposits. In 1994, the Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive set a minimum coverage level of EUR 20,000, which is no longer sufficient. Last year, we adopted an amendment to the Banking Act, which became the level of the guaranteed application for the period up to 31. 12. 2010 unlimited. With this measure, we have prevented panic, which, in the face of the financial crisis and the fact that many banks are failing elsewhere in the world, could result in an uncontrollable emptying of banks through an increase in the savings of natural persons. However, it is a temporary measure which will no longer be necessary by stabilising the financial and economic system, since the end of the following year, after a valid solution in the law, will anyway expire on its own. However, since the situation has changed quite well since 1994, it is only right that the level of the guaranteed role to be guaranteed by the bank rises to 50,000 euros. In this we don't think it's that important a solution, whether it's 50 or 100,000 euros, because in fact this difference is irrelevant for a large, large majority of the Slovenian population. The bill before us also introduces some other solutions. For example, it extends the scope of services classified as payment services and electronic money services, then it also provides for the extension of the recruitment of persons in a special relationship with the bank to persons in which a member of the board, a member of the supervisory board or a procurator or his immediate family members indirectly or directly have at least 10% of the voting rights and so on. We will support the proposed law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian national party will not object to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, because, like the majority who have spoken today, we know or see that the essence of the change in the safety of our and your roles, that is to say all those who are watching us. But I'm going to be very frank here, and I'm going to speak in my personal name, so that someone doesn't accidentally take advantage of my curiosity and use it for my colleagues. In fact, when I look at this page, I do not understand that the directive is a European directive that we must respect and therefore adapt the security limits of our roles or guarantees to some extent. [[...]] But I don't understand something. Last year, as we have heard, October 2008 was given a commitment and a promise to all Slovenes and Slovenes, to us and to all those who view us as an unlimited guarantee or absolute security of roles. For someone who has 20 euros in a bank account, or for someone who has a billion. Among those, of course, allowed. This shall apply until 31. 12. 2010 I don't understand if we have this, why now, irrespective of the European regulation, why we are now changing and entering into some law that the guarantee is 50 million, the upper guarantee, and then I asked myself, you ignorant Barovich, see when the law comes into force, and it says that the law enters into force after the publication of the Official Journal. Well, it says earlier that within three months some content needs to be coordinated. But should I now ask the question of when will this be published in the Official Journal? Let's just say that this would be published in the Official Journal, I'll say, on February 1, 2010. What does that mean? Does this mean that Slovenians and Slovenians no longer have an absolute guarantee in relation to the October 2008 words, so security for the absolute amount they have in their account and that security is only up to 50 million? I do not understand, nor do I understand, why talks and disputes about the amendment of EUR 50 or 100 million if the absolute guarantee for all applications is to apply until 31.12. I, I'm sorry, I really don't understand in person why we're talking about this today. Although April was, I know that those directives by Europe when we received them were an absolute guarantee of €22 million, if I am not mistaken, and are now changing, April this year has changed to €50. I totally understand that, and if we didn't have it, we would accept it today because we have absolute security, and I don't know why we accept it. And I don't know if this will be accepted and if this will be published in the Official Journal, I repeat, on February 1, 2010, do we no longer have the absolute security that was provided to us until December of next year? I can't understand anything else in this house of wisdom, or intelligence, or justice, or democracy, or whatever. That's what I want to know. I'm not worried because they don't, I'm personally saying what to guarantee, but there are people who have some kind of security that saves, who want to know what it's all about. And actually dealing with some laws and enacting some laws under some other laws - at least there is a discrepancy between these laws. Whether in this case comes or not, where it comes from, where they are written and how they are valid is a very open question. For nine years now, I have been going to the Committee on Finance, because I do not know how smart I am, but I have learned a lot, and now, how do I explain everything that I do not understand at this moment to all the people for whom we are adopting this law? I hope someone will explain it to me. As we say, we will not object to this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Parliament of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. That there will be no panic and misunderstanding, we are talking about thousands of euros, it is a dilemma, or 50,000 euros or 100,000 euros. I must say that the guarantee in the millions would be too great, but we also agree with our colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, that at this moment it is also a reflection that we can join together at the number of 100,000 euros, on the spot and with that amendment at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. It is indeed a matter of adapting the European Directive because the Banking Act lays down the conditions for the establishment, operation, supervision and termination of credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions under which persons established outside the Republic of Slovenia may provide banking services, mutually recognised financial services and electronic money services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, this time changes relate to the transposition of the European Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes with regard to the level of coverage and payment deadlines, setting the level of the guarantee, cooperation with other guarantee schemes and the publication and advertising of information on the guarantee system. The amendment of the law also concerns the transposition of a directive governing the area of payment services in the internal market. The proposal also takes into account the European Commission's initiatives on non-use of discretion, as the Commission notes that the additional data requested are potentially only of interest to supervisors, but not to other parties, such as investors, investors, at least in principle. The law ultimately results in meaningful and effective solutions, which mainly relate to a permanent increase in the level of guaranteed deposits from €22,000 to €50,000, bearing in mind that by 31 December of the following year, that is, December 2010, the amount of the guaranteed application is not limited. And since the situation today is why we should go to less or worse, we also agree with the support of the amendments of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Another important introduction of the so-called EU mandate in the performance of Banka Slovenije’s tasks and responsibilities in the area of banking supervision. The essence of the so-called EU mandate is to coordinate the supervision of the financial sector of the European Community in the form of strengthening cooperation between national supervisory authorities and bringing the surveillance and reporting practices closer to those of the European Union. It also seems important to us to publish more precisely and advertise information in the deposit guarantee system. It is also important to provide for the cooperation of the Slovenian Deposit Guarantee Scheme with the Deposit Guarantee Scheme of the Member State and the third country in which the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia has a branch and with the Deposit Guarantee Scheme of the Bank of the Member State and the third country also operating in the Republic of Slovenia. Surely we are all united that the proposed changes have positive effects for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, provide greater security and, above all, an increase in the level of the guaranteed role, increased supervision in the financial sector, more precise specific advertising and other solutions - we think these are good, encouraging news for the savers - and therefore we will follow such a bill with a positive vote in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you. Ms Renata Brunskole will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well-known, distinguished Vice-President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. Already before me, the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups has repeatedly said that it goes on the one hand with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, the other dealing with transposition. The proposal for a novelty partially transposes into Slovenia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 amending the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes as regards the level of coverage and payment deadlines. The provisions on the level of the guarantee, cooperation with other guarantee schemes and the publication and advertising of information on the guarantee system shall be transposed. The remaining provisions of the Directive, however, require greater adjustments from the Slovenian Deposit Guarantee Scheme. In particular, the setting of deadlines for competent institutions, the reduction of late payment delays and the further increase in coverage levels are not subject to this transfer. The Banking Act also follows the initiative of the European Commission to apply discretion as defined in Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Directive. The European Commission also notes that the additional data requested are potentially only of interest to supervisors and, in principle, to other parties, such as investors and investors. In any event, these additional requirements, which must also be reviewed by the authorised auditor, increase the costs to the branches. The most important solution to the law is to ensure an adequate level of guarantee for net deposits, achieved by increasing the limit to €22,000 as a milestone for which the deposit guarantee is guaranteed, to EUR 50,000. Such an increase reflects the average role played by a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to approximately 30 000 euros. Of course, this increase applies after 31 December 2010, because until then the level of the guaranteed application is not limited. Therefore, I repeat myself, today, in the debate, there has been some kind of doubt in the presentation of the positions, the question - it is true; that is, this proposal, 50 thousand euros, is all over 1. 1. 2011. Therefore, until 31 December 2010, it was very clear that the level of the guaranteed application was unlimited. If there is a need for change, it is also possible to make a change in 2010 if there is a dilemma or doubt as to whether the EUR 50 000 is a sufficiently high amount of guarantee for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or savers in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for amendments to the Banking Act also extends the scope of services classified as payment services and electronic money delivery services compared to the current definition of these services. A range of persons in a special relationship with the bank is also extended to persons in whom a member of the board, a member of the supervisory board or a procurator or his immediate family members have an indirect or at least 10% of the voting rights. The law also prescribes the participation of the Slovenian Deposit Guarantee Scheme from the Deposit Guarantee Schemes of the Member State and the third country in which the Bank of Slovenia has a branch and the Deposit Guarantee Scheme of the Bank, the Member State and the third countries operating in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for amendments to the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much. In this article and in this amendment, we are, of course, talking about thousands of euros when we talk about the guaranteed role, we are not talking about millions of euros. I was talking about millions of euros, but unfortunately there is no article open here, in connection with the awards in the New LB that have been paid in the past, which would also be a good idea in this law. In this connection, I also spoke to many millions of dollars lost to Slovenia at the failed Lehman Brothers Bank. Here I have an article, Dnevnik, November 17th, from which Banka Slovenije reported $54.1 million in claims in this bankruptcy mass of the failed Lehman Brothers Bank and as the one responsible for these moves, cited former Governor, Mr Gaspari. Not only did this not cause any harm, but this man, I think, should no longer have a prominent function, not in banking or in the public sphere, but he should have done something else that would not cause harm to this country and the people; even more, he was rewarded. And just interestingly, symptomatically, just turn the article down and we see a lady who has been punished, punished, gravely cut off for defending the interests of the state and those citizens. I am talking about Mrs Zadravec Capriolo, who was first resolved by the Pahor government by the Director-General of the Treasury Directorate. We know that she did her job under more than five finance ministers, she did it well, everyone recognizes it, both professional and political, and because she did not listen to the politics of Pahor, she was suspended, dismissed for no reason. That is how this policy currently works in the area that is most sensitive and most sensitive. And if this policy were in my pants on October 8th last year, I am afraid that there would be a bank failure in Slovenia because it would not be able to react the way it did. The inability to deal with one very simple matter, which is completely administrative and bureaucratic in nature and which Europe is already implementing, appears to be now. We're talking about being 1. 1. 2011 was a guarantee of 100,000 euros in nutrition and our government is proposing not 100,000, which will be valid, but let us give 50,000 first, and then we will change again. Why, what? Why? There's no need for that. There is also no need for any panic or uncertainty in this area. It is important that at present all applications are by the end of 2010, until the end of next year, to guarantee an unlimited amount of State guarantees, and it is important that by 1. 1. 2010 is reducing this guarantee, but I don't know why to 50,000, to 100,000 euros. If it's not a problem now, when it's unlimited, then why would it be a problem if we cut it down to 100,000 euros? Because at the end of this stage it is not possible to have any practical application, it is more about this psychological sense of security, which, when it comes to finances, is extremely important, and it is, in my opinion, necessary to follow. I really don't see any reason why this amendment should not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskol, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I have told you several times before, and I will again see how fast the time passes or, above all, how quickly changes can take place. On 7 November last year, in 2008, I was talking about the problems, the crisis in the area where I come from. So about increasing unemployment in the White landscape, about the business decisions of some companies that you wouldn't say were close, which was earlier a talk about which government, etc. - but it happened. More than 100 people are unemployed, the unemployment rate has increased, but on the same day some colleagues spoke when there is no crisis, crisis, etc. Of course, it is interesting that we did not need more than three months when we were practically all united in this debate room, no matter what group we come from, we were all talking about the crisis. Therefore, in this amendment alone, when we are talking about an increase of €50,000 to €100,000, I think that this proposal will also show whether this amount of €50,000, which, at least I will undermine this proposal, will even need to be increased. So whether it will have to increase to 100,000 euros or, in our situation, 50,000 euros even for the average saver - that is, the average role in the European Union is 30,000 euros. I'm afraid, and from my experience, I almost hope to say that our average role here is even lower than 30,000 euros per saver. So for now, this proposal will be €50,000 out of €1. 1. 2011 was definitely enough. But if not, we will certainly support the change that will go up. Today, when we know that all savers and savers have an unlimited guarantee for the entire year 2010, that is, until 31.12.2010, there is no concern here. Not for millions, either. When we read the articles back, a few days ago, or a few days ago, or a few months ago, I don't recall that more than a million euros would have been paid for the bank's discharges, so it probably wasn't meant to be a little general. And somehow I didn't agree to call them individual people. In the case of personal debates, a person may also have the right to give a personal opinion on the people concerned, but it surprises me to present my views when it comes to individuals and businesses, but democracy is the government and it is right to present its position democratically. I will not support this amendment alone at any given time, and I do not think that this is necessary, if necessary, I will certainly support it, and I will support the changes in the Banking Act itself today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you. It's still an interest in the application. Please sign in. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	Seems like there was a misunderstanding about what I said. So, I was talking about that if last October, when some banks around Europe and around the world started to collapse, there was no rapid reaction by the then finance minister and then government president to the fact that the guarantee of bank deposits was guaranteed to an unlimited amount, despite the fact that this law had not yet been adopted at the time, I was talking about that even in Slovenia the collapse of one of the banks could have occurred, and I was talking about that if the new government, the Pahor government, continued with such swift, decisive moves also at the second part that it had on the table this liquidity spasm, which is not yet failing, would not have happened in the sense that it is happening now. As to who spoke, whether it was a crisis or not, see, dear colleagues and colleagues, what Prime Minister Pahor said about here in the National Assembly at the beginning of March this year, when he was the first budget rebalancing for 2009, he said. He talked about Slovenia having a positive economic growth of 0.6% this year and that there is also a balance on this basis. That's what Mr. Pahor said. That's not what the opposition said. The same day that he said that, the prognosis of minus 4.5 came in, and now we're at minus 8. These are the facts. So, those catastrophic situations that have occurred in recent months, early this year and not yet March. And that's not what the opposition has determined. That's what Prime Minister Pahor himself found out. Then why did it happen, and of course we know. But this amendment is about that minimum. Europe sets a minimum. And if Europe determines in the directive that it is a minimum of 100,000, we will only take the legislative procedure through the National Assembly once again. What for? If we know it's gonna happen soon enough today. And there is no need not to set a higher minimum and thus provide a firm guarantee to those who have savings in our Slovenian banks. I see nothing wrong with this amendment, the very good positive effects, not one negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, then I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a final account. Mrs. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The final account for 2008 which you have before you also has the Court of Auditors' audit report. If I touch the final budget account briefly. The 2008 budget was adopted at the end of 2007, and an amendment or rebalancing of this budget was prepared in April, which was also confirmed mid-year. This rebalancing mainly touched on the B balance sheet and incurred additional expenditure for the recapitalisation of banks, since the structure and level of the revenue side and the expenditure side did not change. The year 2008 ended in a slightly different macroeconomic framework as envisaged in the preparation of the budget. Let me just touch the key indicators. The gross domestic product was still very high, growth was 7.7%, but by half the percentage point was lower than the one originally planned. Export growth was 5.2%, which was lower for 7% than what was estimated when the budget was drawn up. Private and public consumption, which was still at a very high level, was also lower than originally planned. The wages were significantly higher than those originally planned, which, of course, caused different inflows and also a different operation of automatic stabilisers, both in the State budget and in certain public finances directly linked to the state budget. The total revenue of the State budget was realised for poor 4% points at a lower level than originally planned and also lower than the expenditure of the State budget in balance sheet A. The expenditure and revenue in the so-called B balance sheet were slightly different from the planned, the debt was slightly lower than the planned but within the limits set by the Budget Implementation Act. After the final budget account, the surplus balance was around 68 million euros. The Court of Auditors, which examined this final account, found that the balance of revenue and expenditure did not show any actual situation and contained errors in the statement on the expenditure side, and found that it also showed errors in the statement in the financing account. The government considered this audit report and wanted to remedy the errors identified in the first instance, but it would have met with the competence of the National Assembly because it would have to establish a budget item in the final budget account, which was not in the budget itself. Therefore, the Government has not corrected the final accounts of the budget as follows from the Court of Auditors’ audit report and has left the decision to the National Assembly whether this final accounts of the budget are being corrected and how this correction is carried out. It is therefore up to you, honourable Members and Members, to determine whether the final account should be corrected or if you can accept it as it has been submitted to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. Mr Andre Visiak for presentation of the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! Indeed, at its 8th regular meeting on 4 November, the Commission considered the proposal for a final account as the parent working body. Following the introduction of the Secretary of State, who said, in the same way as today, that in 2008 there was still a very good economic environment and good economic growth, which has been limping in recent months. It is very important that she mentions that in the 2008 financial year there is a surplus of revenue over expenditure in the national budget. So, given the documents that will follow, it is likely that this is the last year that we are, and probably not for a long time will come this year when the state budget has had a surplus of revenue over expenditure. It was also pointed out by the Government at a number of other derogations, including a derogation with regard to a slightly poor absorption of funds from the European budget and so on. Of course, the Court of Auditors revised the final account. The government found that the main reason for the negative opinion was in the way in which the balance of revenue and expenditure was displayed, since expenditure was not also reflected in the resources paid to beneficiaries on the public telecommunications network, there was a difference of 110 million. Indeed, as you know, in 2008 or already in 2007, the State transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Company of Telekoma shares and this was a source of compensation, since trends in capital markets were poor, the Court, instead of selling these shares, covered these borrowing entitlements and from other sources. Thus, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly stressed that the negative opinion is also due to repeated errors. When we talk about the payments made by beneficiaries to invest in the public telecommunications network, it is only one of them. The fact that certain other business events, which were not also related to the core development programmes, were also significantly affected by the fact that they were not properly recorded by the Court of Auditors and so on. Of course, there was an interesting debate between members of the coalition and the opposition. Above all, this issue has been exposed - it has often also been at the heart of the coalition- opposition dispute - to the correctness of recording the expenditure associated with the return of the investor to the public telecommunications network. I think it is very important here to underline the Government's conclusion, because the Government said in its 7th point that the Government notes that the state of public finances, as well as the wider sector of the country, did not have this different representation of expenditure than the Court of Auditors expected. It only had an impact on the budget, since the Slovenian Compensation Society belongs to the public sector or to a wider country and if we are looking at it as instead of the budget from the Slovenian Indemnity Society, the State budget is, in fact, different from the state budget here, and this has had a very neutral impact on the wider sector of the country. That seems very important to me. Finally, the Secretary of State expressed her willingness to proceed with the corrections to the final account. However, we have found that there is no legal basis for this, and at the same time we have found that, several times last year or this year, the law on public finances has not been introduced in the procedure, such as a chapter or articles which would also allow for recourse to the irregularities found by the Court of Auditors. Of course, the National Assembly cannot accept the balance of the final or rebalancing of the 2008 budget, i.e. for a year that is no longer available, and therefore the majority also decided that [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] Of course, the government will not in any way be obliged to make corrections, because there is no legal basis for this. [[...]] I believe, however, that consideration should be given to this possibility in order to include in the law provisions allowing this to take place on the basis of the Court of Auditors' findings.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we will not support the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. The same position was also advocated by the members of our party at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. And how do we substantiate our decision not to confirm or accept the proposal for a final account? In the context of the audit of the final accounts for the general part of the accounts for 2008, the Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion, due to repeated errors in the previous year, i.e. in 2007. This involves the incorrect accounting of payments to beneficiaries under the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. However, for the correct implementation of the State budget for 2008, the Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservation. The auditors of the Court of Auditors found for 2008 that the state budget had not recorded EUR 65 million in surplus, but EUR 43.1 million in deficit. In verifying the correctness of the implementation of the 2008 budget, the Court of Auditors has identified several cases of non-compliance with the rules in respect of the payment of salaries, in taking on commitments where obligations have been settled within longer periods than is prescribed by law, or in the case of excessive amounts. Non-compliance with the rules was also identified in the audit for public procurement, capital investments, in the allocation of transfers, where, inter alia, there was no adequate verification of the adequacy of projects, no adequate supervision was ensured and no explanation was given as to the extent of the allocations to public funds or public agencies. In the Group of Members, indeed, we expected some irregularities, as the 2007 final budget account has already been revised and many irregularities in the conduct of the previous government have been demonstrated. It has already been found in the final accounts of the 2007 budget that, in many cases, the treatment of taxpayers has been done quite domestically. In the face of these irregularities, we are surprised only by the extent of this. It's very big. For example, it has been found that the Government has misused funds from the sale of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in SIJ for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljanska Bank in the amount of EUR 14.5 million. Furthermore, it was found that the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor of 22 million was carried out without an appropriate decision by the Government, it was also found that the Government had mistakenly converted the claim in the DSU from the purchase of the SIC shares in the actual contribution of the State to the DSU of 17 million and some such irregularities were found in the revision. The findings of the 2008 final account audit are alarming due to the fact that the conduct of the previous government was planned and that it was clearly a conscious arrangement or presentation of public finances and that these practices are also repeated, as shown in the 2007 and 2008 audit. The alleged and incorrect surpluses of the state budget in both years have clearly served as a better public image of the work of the previous government, as we have heard many times during this period and will hear, probably in today's debate. We have listened to similar or even the same debates on the 2008 proposal for the Commission for Public Finance Supervision as in the 2007 final budget account. In the Group of Members, we really hope that today there will be no similar action in this debate, as was the case with the consideration of the final accounts for 2007. It should be pointed out that at that time we witnessed unacceptable conditionalities and blackmail by the SDS party and, ultimately, forced to repeat the vote or accept the final account for 2007. Back then, in our Group, we insisted that it was impossible to barant even for the objectives which were higher or shown as national objectives, because of the entry of our neighbour Croatia and the country of Albania into the NATO Union, that these objectives could not be beyond what is called a review, which is called a credible presentation of the final account. We therefore hope that today, when the final accounts of the 2008 budget are adopted, there will be no similar developments. The question of the final account of each country is not only a professional question of how the state expresses its balance sheets and how it implements its national budget, but also a final account is a question of the credibility, legitimacy and legal awareness of each government. In view of the above, I should like to reiterate that the Group of Members is not really going to adopt the proposal for a final budget account for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a final account for 2008, although we believe that this was the situation that was behind us, but we have nevertheless dealt with this proposal for a final account in particular in the light of the discussions that have been conditional on the monitoring or conclusion of the Court of Auditors' treatment of this material. Although we have a shared opinion in the Group on the validation of the final account. However, we are united there when we support the proposal for a decision adopted by the mother's working body. It proposes that the Government adopt legislation in the field of public finances in terms of the possibility of remedying irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors at the time of the audit of the 2008 accounts. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we were negatively surprised that the list of irregularities found by the Court of Auditors during the audit of the proposal for a state account closure for 2008 was so long. Of course, the logical consequence is that the Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion on the accounts of the State budget and the correctness of the budget delivery with reservations. We are particularly surprised that this has not happened for the first time, but we have seen a similar story through the Court of Auditors since the audit of the 2007 accounts. It is clear that the Government and the entire state apparatus did not take seriously the warnings of the Court of Auditors. At this point, we cannot share optimism with the President of the Court of Auditors, who believes that the responsible business events will be properly recorded in the future. For we fear that all warnings will come upon the deaf ears again. The negative opinion of the Court of Auditors, however, is, in our opinion, a serious warning of recurring errors. Thus, as has already been said, one of the main reasons for the negative opinion is the fact that the Ministry of Finance did not take into account the warnings of the Court of Auditors. Thus, between the indicators of the final account in the balance of revenue and expenditure between the revenues, Telekom’s dividends were not shown to have been paid out and, during the current transfers, did not pay the beneficiaries for contributions to the telecommunications network, nor did it pay interest during the current expenditure on the funds set up by the Court and on the cost of returning these contributions. In the balance sheet, investment expenditure is shown to be too low and current expenditure on investment transfers is shown to be too high. Therefore, for around €65 million, there is a surplus under the line, although after the audit disclosure, the balance sheet is in fact 43 million in negative terms. In particular, the auditors focused on drawing on the European Union's resources and concluded that the European Union's revenues were only 53.6% lower than planned last year. The country expected to receive more than €407 million in the budget than it would direct to the Union, and in fact it had a deficit of almost €65 million. The worst was the realisation in structural funds, where last year the share of the plans implemented decreased by as much as 12%. At the same time, it should be noted that the poor results are not only due to slow drawing, but mainly due to inadequate planning of revenues from Brussels. When it comes to drawing on European funds, we need to separate between budgetary users and the country as a whole. For the country is a net recipient of funds from the European Union, including those receiving funds directly beyond the national budget. To avoid misunderstandings, the Court of Auditors proposes, and our Group has already repeatedly proposed that a collection centre be set up to show the full picture of European funds being drawn. We cannot be satisfied either by informing the public about the operation of the country if the final account does not contain a balance sheet and individual items, nor transactions that are in cash flows. The Court of Auditors has also disturbed changes in the way credit payments are recorded under the Basic Development Programmes of the Defence Forces Act. In their view, they do not provide complete information on the budget deficit and the debt due to this item. When auditors examined the correctness of budget implementation, they found several inconsistencies with the rules. The Public Finance Act, for example, does not provide a legal basis for the establishment of institutions that do not perform public service or with the public in the public interest, but are only generally useful or charitable, such as the House of Experiments, the Slovenian Science Foundation and some others. Last year, the country had eight such institutions, which received as much as 2.8 million euros from the budget. Therefore, the legal basis for them should be found in the future or should they cease to be financed. The rules have already been violated in terms of employment, salaries and other personal benefits, commitment from the budget, procurement, transfers and so on. The auditors also found irregularities in capital investments. The country has spent 14.5 million euros in purchases from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. The new Maribor Credit Bank recapitalised 22m euros, and without the government's decision, the new company was wrongly transferred to the Capital Society. Therefore, auditors also had to make this negative or subject to reservations. Finally, let me say that the DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a decision of the parent body in order for the Government to make an appropriate amendment to the legislation in terms of remedying the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in the course of the debate and when the final accounts for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The implementation of the 2008 budget ended in a slightly different situation than originally planned. The macroeconomic situation at the end of 2008 has deteriorated to such an extent that they have deviated significantly from the forecasts in which the 2008 balance was adopted. Thus, GDP is lower by half the percentage point of GDP than planned. Exports are lower by 7% and imports by 2%. The result of this budget is, in fact, within the framework of the planned, it is said that it has ended up with a budget surplus, a small amount less than what was planned. The Court of Auditors’ audit again showed different results of the 2008 final budget account as shown in the current accounts. The main derogations referred to by the Court of Auditors relate to expenditure on the balance of revenue and expenditure and the Court of Auditors considers that the balance sheet revenue is shown at EUR 111 million and half. The main reason for this is the way in which expenditure related to the reimbursement of the beneficiary under the telecommunications law is shown. Interestingly, this is the same content that we met at the end of the 2007 budget account, with the previous accounts proposed by the previous government and everything was wrong, and now the final account with the same shortcomings is proposed by the current government. Of course, I expect that this time too there will be a terrible shout and scream and that you will not accept this final bill. Why do we meet under the new government with the same view of the Court of Auditors? I agree with the representatives of the Government: because the Government simply cannot make such a correction itself, because it would otherwise intervene in the powers of the National Assembly on the one hand, and on the other hand it would deviate from the other rules under which the final budget account is drawn up. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said, and I quote, "There were no rules on monetary flows and cash flows at this point." - end of quote. Let me point out that arguing about this is completely unproductive and that it is pure political prestige. Obviously, there is something wrong with the legal framework itself, unless neither government can draw up a final account otherwise than by being judged by the Court of Auditors as wrong. Let us change the legal basis and resolve the matter for the time being, so that we do not waste time every year on things that actually interpret things from the past. The final accounts for 2008 will be supported by the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	Dear President! Dear Minister! The deterioration of the macroeconomic situation at the end of 2008 in derogation from the forecast exceeds the 2008 balance. Gross domestic product decreased from planned, exports decreased, consumption decreased and imports decreased by 2%. The budget, which was corrected by a rebalancing of almost 3% of the point, also reflected in some way by wage growth, which was constantly on the rise and exceeded the envisaged rate. The lower revenue and expenditure of the budget for almost 4% of the point was reflected in the drawing-up of European funds and, consequently, in the implementation of the projects themselves, which were linked to the European budget. These are also more visible differences at the level of investment transfers and investments themselves. The Court of Auditors’ audit report notes irregularities in the final accounts for 2008, which mainly relate to the expenditure and revenue balance shown, which is in some way linked to the contents already in 2007. However, it is necessary to take into account the opinion and results of the Court of Auditors, which concluded that this final account does not produce the correct result and gives a negative opinion. For a long time, the Court of Auditors has also drawn attention to the issue of the balance sheet, which is not an integral part of the final budget account, but should report on all business events that are recorded only in the balance sheet and are not budgetary statements. These irregularities have been pointed out for many years. So far, no government has been willing to listen to these warnings by the Court of Auditors. It would be expected that the Government will propose changes in the direction of better information in the country's operations, but, as we see, nothing has happened. As I have already mentioned, we have been unsuccessful in drawing on European funds, this has been graciously said. That revenue was lower than planned by 53%, mainly in the area of structural policies. The Court of Auditors draws attention to a number of irregularities that have been detected, and some of them are right to mention them to you. The problem of crying. With regard to acceptance of commitments, long-term settlement, as prescribed by law, award of concessions and guarantees, there are irregularities in the country's capital investments, the functioning of institutions in Slovenia set up by the State, this is a completely new matter. From last year. The Court of Auditors notes that the state has organised such assets in eight such institutions, which have received around EUR 3 million from the budget for their work and mission. Of course, the National Assembly will have to define the need to establish individuals of private law on behalf of the State. To sum up the case surrounding the Soda shares and the state invested in the telecommunications network. There were no cash flows in this case, it was only a transfer of shares to the Court, which paid by its own means the beneficiaries who invested in the infrastructure and thus went to the government to not need the cash and thus to make the picture more favourable. As we can see, both governments are involved in this story - both previous and present. The current one because she didn't fix it with a balance when it was time, and she's obviously out of work and knowledge, and the last one because she cooked it all up. As we see, there is a lot of irregularities, so it would be unfair to say that the final account is being used by the Court of Auditors for political purposes. Of course, we ask ourselves in the Slovenian National Party whether we have any instruments to remedy these illegalities and irregularities. It is not enough to just identify illegalities, we must also find answers for irregularities. We will support the matter in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	Respectable. We are again faced with a thing that is not understandable to many, and not in the context of a fair and frank discussion as to whether any period to which the final account relates has been properly proven, correctly and that on this basis we can also determine what is actually what has been done in this area, where irregularities have also been committed. We have been warned about this by the Court of Auditors, and we know this and at least what it is, the National Assembly must take these findings into account and it is not possible to expect anyone to draw up a final account for 2008 in order to make it any different. The claim that now that another government could otherwise draw up a final account cannot be correct because it relates to a period which was real, which continued from 2007 and could not otherwise be determined by certain statements as they were recorded in the final account and as the Court of Auditors has found. We will support the efforts and expect the Government to amend the rules as soon as possible, where it will be possible to correct the final bill in the manner suggested by both the Court of Auditors and the Government itself in its opinion now says what the National Assembly should do if it wants things to change. But it's essentially about finding out some situation in 2008, which was different than it's always stressed, as it's been trying to show. And because there are some irregularities that cannot, even if we change legislation and regulations in this area, they will eventually not change from negative to positive, but they will remain. From this point of view, it is understandable that we cannot do anything different in the House of Members than we are in the 2007 final account, because we are simply repeating the exercise. We note, of course, that regardless of who forms a document, a document, for everyone has to look back or take into account real documents and real events during that period and, as ordered, also report to the National Assembly. As it can be expected that the Government is aware of this and that it will come with these regulations - it has also already been remedied in one part when it comes to the 2009 balance in telecommunications and some other things, we expect, of course, that this proposal will also be prepared in this part, so we will explain later why this final account for 2008 cannot be supported. And nothing will happen if this final account is not supported, it will not be supported, it will not receive the appropriate majority - or if you think otherwise. It is just that we believe that something that is not in line with what is required of us by legislation and which is pointed out by supervisors, auditors, cannot be supported. Therefore, as we say, we will not support the proposals of the 2008 accounts. However, we will do everything that follows, including those suggestions to the Government to amend the legislation so that it can be corrected, but, as the situation has been said, the conclusion for a specific period will not be altered. Some wrong books or presentations, but not whether it was a plus or a minus when it comes to certain specific matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Breda Pecan. Here you go, Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats has repeatedly consulted, not only within the parliamentary group, but also with colleagues from the other three coalition groups, in relation to the 2008 accounts. There has been a lot of debate on what to do with the 2008 final account on the fact that this time the Court of Auditors has stepped up or tightened its opinion in comparison with its 2008 opinion on the final accounts for 2007 and has given a negative opinion on the final account. I think it is clear enough that this negative opinion is related not only to the misrepresentation of the reimbursement expenditure to beneficiaries who have invested in the telecommunications network, but to the fact that it is a mistake, as we have already heard today due to this counter, the whole series. Among them are some who in normal circumstances would also earn a magnifying glass from the judiciary and the prosecution. However, it is on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, whose report we had previously heard, which was more a report from one of the opposition parties than the Commission for the supervision of public finances. However, which is drafted in such a way that it is not possible to accept a real assessment of an act as it would have deserved, it has happened that, for example, on the Commission a decision has been proposed that could have resolved the dilemma, or could have been complicated, around the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors in relation to the final account itself, given that the Court of Auditors and the Government have said that it is not possible to correct this final account without the decision of the National Assembly or the amendment of the relevant legislation: the law on the Court of Auditors or the Law on Public Finance. However, the hearings of the members of the opposition's Public Finance Supervisory Commission were widely publicised as if they were not able to think realistically as if it were a political problem. This is a recurring problem, which can happen again, because it is never and never said that any government can repeat different but equally serious mistakes that the Court of Auditors could assess with its negative opinion. As a result, we have no choice in the Social Democrats Group as to whether to reject the 2008 accounts and thereby let the Government know that it has to prepare such amendments or one or another of the laws that I have been talking about, the law on the Court of Auditors and whether the law on public finances or both, on the basis of which the final account can be drawn up, if not, and any of the following, corrected to show the true state of affairs in the past financial year, so that we do not go into each other again and again and think about how someone wants to convince someone about how someone wants to fly or anything like that. The handball and dramatist receptions we have watched and listened to at the Commission's Public Finance Supervisory meeting are strongly rejected because of the pauperism, I think we have far too much in the National Assembly. And we're talking about too many serious things to go on showing a variety of dramatic actions and a comical display of such serious things as the final budget account. I think that the Government will be able to do what it could have done during this year, because it knew after the 2007 final account that we would have the prospect of having a similar situation at the end of the 2008 accounts, and could have proposed, at its own initiative, an amendment to the Public Finance Act or the Court of Auditors Act and would have been accepted by this final account already, that it would not have been necessary for the Court of Auditors to deliver a negative opinion, since the final account would have been prepared as the Court of Auditors had already said for 2007. Even the Government, our government, if I may say so, today's government has made a mistake because it has not reacted in time because it has not taken the steps necessary in this regard in time. It all shows that, of course, some people in the government think that the National Assembly will be able to do something that cannot be done. If the working body of the National Assembly, which is authorised, is the parent working body to decide on the final account and this parent working body is composed in such a way that it has the majority of the opposition in it, and so the power ratio in the working body decides on the final account which the current opposition has accepted or the budget has implemented, then it is not expected that the proposal that the Government wishes to receive can be adopted on such a committee. For this reason, I must say that I, too, cannot say this on behalf of the Group of Members, am unhappy with the slow and incorrect response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the preparation of this final account. Let me do it again. The Group of Social Democrats will vote against the approval of the 2008 accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	Mr Mag will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps a few simple things need to be said first that we will see how and what is going to happen to this final account. The final accounts for 2008 were handed over to the Court of Auditors on 31 March this year. This is said to be the final bill prepared by the current government. The final account is thus made, an accounting product which is a business event that took place in 2008. What did the Court of Auditors say in the audit? An indication of events, a negative opinion, is to say, showing business events, what the current government has done, negative, it is said, is not properly reported expenditure and revenue in this budget, in its balance sheet. And what else did the Court of Auditors say? Opinion with reservation on the correctness of the implementation of the 2008 budget. That is, if I say domestically, the previous government opinion with reservation, the current government's negative opinion. That's how I read it, and that's how we read it in SDS, and that's how it's only right to read it. Not only has the current government done the only thing possible within the meaning of existing rules, it has made a report or financial statement which has received a negative position. Is that clear, Your Honor? The current government has shown a certain amount of expenditure that should not have been incurred. This is how it is explained in the Court of Auditors’ report. And now let's see what this is all about. This is 111 million, which is a lot of money, and it's about the money that was going to pay off the beneficiaries of investment in the public telecommunications network. The money was received, not from the state budget, but from the Slovenian Compensation Society, which also belongs to the wider sector of the country. If we look from the point of view of taxpayers, it is totally minor whether it is paid out of one pocket of the country or from another pocket of the state. That's what we're arguing about today, Your Honor. And that's why some people will say no. And I can't help but tell my fellow Member that this is political prestige. It is the fact that the current government has so demonstrated that public finances are widely viewed as completely neutral visas of this, and it is such a sin, if I understand correctly, such a sin as was attributed to the previous government, that you will reject the final bill. Nice, nice, I don't have a problem with that. You will reject the work of your government, which has made this final bill, and you will be very inconclusive about it if you could not have done otherwise. I could've done something different. On the basis of the opinion of the auditors given in this audit report, this government could amend the Public Finance Act, submit it to this Parliament on the basis of an amendment to the Public Finance Act, which would allow for an intervention in the financial statements for business events that have already taken place in one way or another, amend this final account and come to Parliament with an amended accounts. That would be all possible. This could have been done by the ruling coalition, but it's not. It's also right that she's not, because she has no connection to do that. Waste of time and arguing with the shadow of a donkey. I am not saying that when it comes to the exercise or the correct implementation of the budget, everything was fine. The opinion was delivered with reservation. A type of irregularity has been identified, as has been the case in each audit report. And it is right that they are removed through the government's efforts. But once again, the way or the correctness of the implementation of the 2008 budget has been given an opinion with reservation rather than a negative opinion. A negative opinion was expressed for the presentation of events, for the statements. And one more thing. How would the current government - and I am not taking anything into the defence because in 2008, when the final accounts for 2007, the government would have done the same - would have recorded the expenditure from the state budget if the expenditure was recorded in accordance with the monetary flow principle, if there was no cash flow. Not one euro went out of the state budget in 2008 or in 2007 for the purpose of paying investors, but went from the Slovenian Compensation Company. However, the Slovenian compensation company received Telekom shares for this payment under the law governing the refund of investments. In these shares, it was the source of the payment of these beneficiaries. The Slovenian compensation company did not sell these shares in 2008 due to the collapse of Telekom’s stock exchange rates and thus paid them, but provided payment from other funds to investors, including by borrowing short-term loans and so on. People received money and also the Slovenian Compensation Company received a source from the State, from Balance B, not from the expenditure and income balance sheet, from the capital investment balance sheet and claims and so on, so from that balance sheet it received a source of remuneration. It's a correct case. The Court of Auditors concluded that it had been incorrectly recorded. The current and former governments have misrecorded this in the Court of Auditors' opinion. Once again, the issue is that the wider sector of the country is completely financially neutral. It is not true that the condition was not shown correctly. The situation was shown to be very correct. Some of you have said that the correct situation is not shown back, and this is a problem that needs to be solved. That's not true. The condition is shown to be correct. However, in the Court of Auditors’ view, it should be shown differently. There's no legal basis for that. And now, if someone is responsible for this, it is necessary to prepare legislation that will allow for a different demonstration of this and then adjust the evidence accordingly to the future. This is how responsible policy takes the views of the Court of Auditors. That is why we have also adopted these conclusions at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision that it is necessary to call on the Government to draw up legislation that will allow for such a demonstration as the Court of Auditors wishes. Not the way the two governments have shown it so far. And the most perverse thing is that someone has made it clear that the manifestation was so that a better condition was displayed than it really was. That is, if I understand correctly, the current government wanted to show a better state for the former government. This one's a barefoot! If you think that the current government, the current minister would like to show the situation for 2008 better than it really is, and do the former government a favor. Well, please! I am surprised, however, if he shared his conviction and the Secretary of State, who was at the meetings of the Commission on Public Finance Control when we discussed the closure of the 2007 account, argued at that time that they would fix this for the future. And she also looked at us as to whether we wanted that for now, for 2007. But she didn't fix it for 2008. We have the same recording as before. And it was not possible for the government to do otherwise, because if it did anything else, it would be illegal. The current government and the former government acted lawfully, exhibiting financial statements, or the state of revenue and expenditure, just as they did in the state budget and left. And it was actually a reflection of the actual state of affairs. And the situation is as shown by the final bill. So what are we arguing about now? Whether it would be right to show these 111 million to go from the state budget to 111 million from the Slovenian Compensation Society, with the State providing them through the transfer of Telekom’s shares to the Slovenian Compensation Society. The current government has rightly concluded that the State budget in 2008 had a surplus of €65 million, which was respected by colleagues. We are talking about a surplus of €65 million. What are you doing? On Monday, we will have a document on the table saying that we will have a billion €900 million minus deficit in 2009. Will you support that consciously? A billion, 900 million dollars? 65 million euros because it was wrong to leave the Soda, not the country, but not the country. And this one's strong! Really. Ladies and gentlemen, more politics than you've said when you're handling this final bill, I really haven't heard it yet. Not just politics. Not knowing or spitting in your own bowl. You spit in the bowl of your government, honourable coalition MPs, because you say that the negative opinion has been gained by the current government because it is true. A negative opinion is obtained in the manner or regularity of the expression of expenditure and revenue, of expression and not of regularity, of the legality of the spending of money, but of the manner of expression. The mode of presentation was made through a final invoice drawn up by this government, which was presented to the Court of Auditors only in March of this year. If you reject this document, you will not for the first time, as you rejected a law created in the coalition yesterday, this is a law to restrict officials, Members of Parliament, but you will once again reject the document prepared by your government, this is the final bill for 2008, and give it a red card in the statement of accounts. That's possible, that's admissible, but I think it's a long way from being productive. I think it would be more productive for these different interpretations of accounting legislation, as is the case with the Government in the preparation of the final account and the Court of Auditors in the revision of this final account, to end by sitting together, telling how the matter needs to be resolved. If there is a need for Parliament and a change of law to come to Parliament with this change of law, we will support it and we will end the matter. However, it is sad that political stories are being made here on this issue. Once again, in order for the current government to make a final bill such as to show a non-effective situation or a better situation, because the former government likes it, I'm sorry, but I really can't accept it. Instead of putting their attention and energy into spending taxpayers' money across the board in 2010 and 2011 and creating around €3 and a half billion of a minus in both years, this content, which is primarily regulated for the future, could employ you more than you actually. We will support the final account in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a decision. Mr. Damian Perne has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Willie Rezman. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	I'm sorry, I saw there was an SLS representative on the list before me, so I was quiet, I'm sorry. There's a lot of things that colleague Andrej Vizjak has said right now, but I'm going to say it another way. I read very carefully the proposal of the closing account. Findings. First time. The Court of Auditors, I stress, has found a mistrial in the financing account. The Court of Auditors did not impose a correction of the final budget account in the course of the audit of the accounts, nor in the Government's corrective actions. The court didn't order it. When you get to the judge for your misdemeanors, the judge will judge and judge and punish Bogdan Barovic for his speeding. The Court of Auditors has not ordered the Government to do anything. This is absurd in this country. Then why do we have it? Why do we have the Court of Auditors? Secondly, the government couldn't undo the mistake, it couldn't do it because it couldn't. Explanation: she couldn't. She can't fix the final bill because it would interfere with the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. I get it, too, okay? And now it tolerates the Government and says that if the National Assembly estimates that the final bill should also be formally corrected, the National Assembly must order the Court of Auditors to impose a method of execution. And we're where we started. You must be very stupid not to understand that this is something very wrong. The court found out and did not charge anything. The government could not do anything because it interferes with our jurisdiction and requires us to tell the court back to do what it should have done at that time. Colleagues and colleagues, this is proof to me that it is only a matter of political shelling between one and the other, for gathering, although very early, political points, for false condemnation of one and the other, but in fact the outcome is the same. There's nothing wrong with this whole mistake, either. In the three checkouts, the other came out of one wrong. Which is true. But the result is the same. It's what it was, even if it's one million or six million plus. I ask why the Court of Auditors failed to carry out its task, why it did not impose on the Government, why the Government is transferring everything together to the National Assembly, which is now dealing with something that belongs to history, in the garbage. Nothing's gonna change. Nothing. The final bill is here, we accept it, we don't accept it, it's like that. Instead of dealing with the 2010 and 2011 budget. This is the whole story, and I'm ashamed that we have to talk about such things in the forecast, I don't know how many hours of time when the story is completely clear when the court didn't do its job when the government didn't do it now, when it puts it into the National Assembly. And I can't wait, but in a month's time, the National Assembly will be guilty of failing to carry out its task because it has not ordered, as it says here, back to the Court of Auditors, that the Court of Auditors, however, should carry out its tasks. How many employees are in the Court of Auditors, how many employees are in all ministries and administrations? So much so that the index is for next year and for next year - thank God we have a minister like that, she's got a little bit of a problem somewhere. All indices in all ministries go over 110, 120. So they don't do their job. This is all the truth about this budget. I'll back him up. I'll get him. Because it is what it is. Let the Court of Auditors do its job and let the government do its job. But I will not tolerate now the absence of two institutions, the absence of a court and the responsibility of the Government, which it now places on us, as if we have no other legislation to deal with together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, it's not so simple that today you could just say, ok, we have a closing account in front of us, that's the record of the situation and that's it. We can't say that. We have a lot to learn from the errors of the 2008 final account that we have a better policy than we have inherited in these difficult situations and in these difficult times. In opening, let me say that the 2008 accounts are one of the last occasions when we can very deeply discuss what the legacy of the previous government is. And this legacy, as the Court of Auditors has clearly stated, is poor. More. I think it is increasingly clear that we have inherited the country in an extremely weak condition and that today we have to solve the acute economic, social and financial problems of our community through a very poorly maintained state apparatus. Among other things, the Court of Auditors finds some interesting. We all knew, and in many debates in the National Assembly this year, we have already indicated that the surpluses shown are not surpluses, but a deficit created by poor management, due to failed political decisions, electoral bonbons, poor European funds and, at the end of the stage, very interesting findings on the missing industrial and economic policy. In one of the previous points, the former Minister of Economy here, as usual, gave us a lecture on what is good, what is smart economic policy. I would like to inform him that the Court of Auditors today gives him one very bad certificate. For example, with regard to fiscal policy orientation in 2008, the Court of Auditors mentions that the former government continued to misdirect fiscal policy. From a cyclically adjusted deficit, this is a deficit that does not take into account the impact of the economic cycle on public finances or deficits, from 2004 to 2008, we can conclude that the Government of Janez Janša has left a worse state of public finances than it was in 2004. In 2006 and 2008, she even led the wrong fiscal direction, leading a pro-cyclical expansion policy. This increased inflationary pressures and overheated the economy in Slovenia. Such a policy has significantly exacerbated the manoeuvre for this government to operate in times of crisis. Unfortunately, the previous mandate, despite the high economic growth, we know that this economic growth has been created in sectors with lower added value, most in construction and part in trade, and these golden years, which many of the current opposition Members like to sing so much when they talk about 7% of economic growth, have unfortunately not been used to fiscally consolidate this country and create stocks for better times. Few of these stocks today would be invaluable for them to be more responsive during this crisis. This opinion is also supported by the European Commission, which notes that the good economic situation has not been used to carry out fiscal consolidation. In the European Commission's view, however, a more restrictive fiscal policy would also be justified in view of the strong inflationary pressures in 2008. Many times in the National Assembly, we listen to the Levites about how little attention we give to medium and small businesses. These are interesting findings. Indeed, aid to small and medium-sized enterprises for employment and energy saving has been the most reduced among horizontal objectives in 2008. Respected and respected! Isn't that exactly what the current opposition is trying to place as a mirror of our failed economic policy, because we don't see priorities in these things, even though we are trying to prove at each of these points that there are priorities here, that there are measures and there are important resources in the adopted rebalancies for this year and also in the 2010 and 2011 budget proposals. I think that what we should agree on in the political space should be one common mantra, one common agreement that we must leave this country in a better state after the end of each term of office. Today, we can unquestionably conclude that the previous government has failed in this and that the great successes that the current opposition is so fond of singing have been nothing more than a cheap accounting trick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I repeat because the young Member does not even know the powers of fiscal policy managers, the Minister of Economy, unfortunately, is not competent, it is the Minister of Finance. And if you've already directed the ostrich, it would probably be right to point it somewhere else. That's the only thing that's actually completely depressed. Some public financial information for back-up. In the mandate of the previous government, the share of public consumption in gross domestic product fell by two to three percentage points throughout the mandate. Now, in the time of your government, you've already spent all of this and you're going straight up. This is said to be a public consumption of what we create in Slovenia is increasing. That's the first thing. The second thing, at the time of the previous government, according to your government, the deficit has been drastically reduced, even according to your government's report, the surplus was achieved not only in 2007, even in 2008. The public debt decreased as a percentage of gross domestic product and reached 21.5%, you will already "dispose" it in this year over 30. Not to mention economic growth and the lowest unemployment rate. These are numbers that are publicly identifiable, and I will not read your political programs from which you quote these nonsensees that you cited. But one more thing. Your performance reminds me of one, I'd say, a spoiled young farmer who inherits a farm from his father. Father made this farm - for the first time, competitively comparable to farms in the neighborhood, he made such a farm to spend less than he created, to have some surplus, to reduce debt and so on. Now comes a young heir to this farm in the form of a spoiled sniffer who finds [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Mr. Visjak, hold on to your words. Not in my grades. Hold on to your words. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	I'm speaking in some illustration of what might happen on one real matter, such as one farm, when it begins to read to your father, czech, father, you've left me too little to spend it now. [[...]] You didn't create enough. It's your fault that I'm in trouble right now because you didn't create any more because you weren't even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	Mr. Visjak, I'm warning you again. You're two minutes out. You asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	When you talk about what needs to be done now, say it and focus on the future. Save this country, we'll help you with that. But if you keep looking back, it's just an expression of your real powerlessness.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Mr Anton Anderlich spoke. Mr. Anderlich, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	That's right. I note that this replica was not a real replica at the moment, because Mr Vizjak should not have received it because he did not discuss it and Mr Frangež did not misinterpret it and Mr Vizjak did not correct the wrong statement, which Mr Frangež should not have understood. The fact that someone mentions someone is not the reason for a replica by the rules of procedure. Nor can it be disputed by the presentations of the groups of Members. If we all listened carefully to the replica, even if it were to be a proper replica, that is, according to the rules of procedure, it was clear, purely past what was supposed to be the corrections.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Mr Andrelic, I guess we both know what you did was not in accordance with the rules of procedure. It wasn't a procedural proposal. No, there was no procedural proposal. You cannot comment on the functioning of the National Assembly as a Member. Procedurally, Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	I replicated the rules of procedure entirely because I corrected the misstatement of my fellow Member because he said that I, as Minister of Economy, was responsible for fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think it has been said once that it would be good to check before considering any item on the agenda the knowledge of individual Members and Members regarding the understanding of a particular topic. And certainly, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission would often have an empty or very few sitting room that could approach the debate, as such discussions have been held on this committee in recent times or in this mandate. We also saw them and heard them today. I think it is, too, that I will mention to Mr Visian that it will be easier to replicate, someone has already told him that the question is how much can he teach others. This performance, which we have seen today, shows a negative assessment for 2008 as a poor assessment of this government, is indeed an incredible salad, or one that only you, Comrade Vizjak, are capable of. Look, to plead against this government, which took over last year's leadership of this country, let us leave in what condition you have left the public finances, but at the time of the very severe crisis of taking the necessary measures of rebalancing, today you are asking yourself here and you are reading to this government that it has not taken the appropriate measures and has not corrected what it should have done to make the data different and that the situation would have been different. At the same time, I believe that you have not forgotten, because for one year there is really not enough time for you to forget that the Court of Auditors has imposed this on you, and this has already shown exactly the same things in the 2007 final account. The fundamental issue of the misunderstanding by showing and publishing certain transactions that you have explained in your own way and then recording them and then repeating them in 2008. And it's not about anything fatal, it's not about anything catastrophic, it's about this country, it's not about individual government, it's not about the previous government, it's not about the present one. It's just something that you use in your own way. You enforce that there is some domestic rule of understanding of the law, as at a certain point in time, someone is "pasha." And perhaps with a sharp assessment, but also the management of financial policy in the previous mandate was small domestic and we listened to it at this meeting, why so many meetings of the Committee on Public Finance Supervision, why so many "noises" for some paper that would otherwise be published and the result would be different. And that is the biggest problem and the tragedy of what is happening in this way, I am sure of knowingly, is the reputation of the institution, which in the field of auditing in our country is the highest - this is the Court of Auditors. And that with such performances, with such representations and such domestic interpretations as you have said today, that if we look at it more broadly, it is all the same, because the result is the same: whether it is paid from one pocket or paid from another pocket. Looking at the parable, it's a big difference whether it's paid out of your pocket or out of my pocket! In general, it's paid out of one pocket. And this is a fundamental misunderstanding that you did not want to understand and I am sure that even after this debate you will not want to understand that there is no other problem than that you did not correct what has been found in 2008 and that you should correct it with a rebalance or with any other decision. This complication, which has arisen, is resolved in this way, as is likely to be the case, that this budget will be unacceptable and will then be rectified by Parliament's decision if it is even rectified. Everything else is measured in this direction that when the Court of Auditors or any other body is assessed for you and for your client, if it is not, it is an instrument of some political conspiracy and some political prestige, or I do not know what. In the debate at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision in today's debate, there is a final account discussion. And the final account is a document that cannot be handled at home together with another cashier and then packed, according to yours, into a wider state treasury, as you explain. And we are not talking about whether it is a plus or minus in the area of all public finances in the past year or in 2007, but we are talking about a document that is prescribed, which each government, previous, current, must fulfil as it is. And it found that what was found was not so much plus, but that the minus is in the final account. That's what I think the representatives of the Court of Auditors have told you, the representatives of the Ministry have told you. I am sure that we will continue to listen to the story again, that this mandate was the most successful, that it is not a minus, but it is a plus, for a simple reason, because I am sure that you do not want to understand that the final account is just one of the documents in which it is recorded what it is. In the implementation of the budget, all irregularities, from payment of salaries, public procurement, everything that has happened and will also happen in this government, in this mandate, and will probably also take place in the next term. Therefore, you yourself have proposed to sit together, change legislation and the matter will be settled. And that's how it's gonna happen in this term. And it's unfair and unfair only to read this to this government, but in 2008 or 2007, when you were still in the government, you didn't do it. That's all this is about. And here goes the political prestige you want to prove to others, essentially in your case. As has been announced for our Group of Members, I will also vote against the adoption of such a final account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, a replica of the replica is not possible. You've already got the replica, now you've spoken Mr Posedel. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. We're talking about the final account for 2008. It was prepared, adopted and incorporated into the legislative procedure by the Pahorov government, not by the Janšev government. The Janša government has submitted a final account for 2007 to the legislative procedure and the Pahorje government has submitted a final account for 2007 and the Court of Auditors has found, in both final accounts, roughly the same if I simplify: that the expenditure paid to the beneficiaries to invest in telecommunications through the Slovenian Indemnity Society was not introduced here by the municipalities, the Court of Justice to the municipality in the final account of the State budget. But how should they be misled if they were paid by another legal person, this is the Court, and are misled there. And on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we have recently considered the 2007 report of the Court, and we have been able to make sure that in 2007 there are some 46 million Euros as the expenditure of the written, misled and also shown in the balance sheet of the Court. The same payment and the same expenditure cannot be shown twice. And if, according to its methodologies, the Court of Auditors has found that it should be shown here in the state accounts, then the balance sheet of the Court should be improved for these 46 in the case of 2007 and in the case of 2008 for these approximately EUR 108 million. That's the whole story. However, the effect of this story is, as some have noted, if we are looking at all the public sector balance sheets, null and void because it means that this expenditure is being offset. In fact, the State budget, both in 2007 and 2008, has dealt with a minimal but still surplus, which, at these numbers we will accept this year: a billion 800 minus, fades. But here we can really start talking about the content of how to get from nothing to a billion 800 in a bad year. That's an essential question. And those who do not believe that it is such that it is an administrative formality that officials at the Ministry of Finance interpret in one way and therefore have done so in the same methodology for 2008 and 2007, according to the same methodology. The Court of Auditors is different. If he doesn't convince you, you may be convinced by the words of the Magi. Milana M. Cvikla, Secretary-General of the Government, who signed on behalf of the Government under the following terms: "The payment from the 2008 State Budget has not been made; no corresponding budget item has been established in the 2008 adopted and applicable budget, with the relevant spending rights, an appropriate accounting instrument on the basis of which the business event could have been recorded has been drawn up, and the monetary flow principle is applied to the preparation of the final budget account." And he's a real magician. Milan M. Cwickl: "At the end of the year, the Government also notes that the 2008 state of the public finances of the State sector due to the irregularities found by the Court of Auditors is not wrong, since the revenues and liabilities mentioned are covered in another unit of the state sector." So, the government in the document of 3. 11. 2009, signed mag. Milan M. Cwickl, an uncontested member of the European Court of Auditors, undisputedly a great authority for you, has signed this. I think that the debate on this can actually end because there is a dispute over the title of the shadow. However, he had this dispute over the back of the shadow a year ago with very large political implications. After you wanted to justify in any way how this was not an administrative story, but it was a substantive story, you were talking about the opposition forcing you to vote in favour of the 2007 final account. On this basis, the Prime Minister has changed his mind and has not signed a so-called partnership that could lead to good solutions for Slovenia, and perhaps also because of this banality, Slovenia today is where it is - because you have not established cooperation with the opposition, which, according to months after us, has had quite a few good ideas, which have been rejected all in a row for such or other reasons. Which is particularly bad for the country, especially the Slovenes and Slovenians, who will have to pay for all of this someday. And it's true what some people say. With this data that we are witnessing today, in the face of an enormous decline in economic growth, with an increase in public debt from 21.5% of gross domestic product, according to Pahor's government, over the next two years. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	Mr. Blackach [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	in last year at 50% [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	I understand that you want to take every opportunity to repeat the same stories, only this is not the content of the final account for 2008. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President, how does what I am saying relate to the content of the final accounts for 2008. But even if I don't say what I was going to say, I think it would be useful for you, but especially for those sitting in the chairs of the ruling coalition. Maybe it would just help make a decision. You're right. It's been said a lot. I think it would be time for those who only speak to take some action. The 2008 Final Account is a final account which is one of the last final accounts showing a positive picture of this country. From now on, unfortunately, we will witness a catastrophic picture, and any government that will take over this country after 2012, will have a heavy burden on how to get it out of a catastrophic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Yosko Godec has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	I will discuss this very briefly, and I would also suggest to you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we are also discussing this very briefly in advance. I think we have already found in the debate that there is a professional conflict between the two state institutions. On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance and, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors, which has been standing on their side for the second year, as is the correct accounting of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself have reviewed this final account and also the Court of Auditors' report, finding that, in fact, in the substantive part, it has proved that there is still much to be done in the area of European funds. I think it's also right that implementing things are carried out to make pumping easier. We went through this exercise once when we found out how these calls were going. I hope that in the future, particularly in this area, glass will be in the right direction. Otherwise, I do not intend to repeat myself and do any praises to the old government, or to the relationship in the government where the Slovenian People's Party was also. But what I want to say is that I am really in this review, when we have seen that a country with such an economy, with an economic situation like that in our environment and around us, really this year we can offset these revenues on this 8.5 billion euros, whether we are talking about some ten million on the positive side or the negative side. It's actually the year we did it. We are all aware that this macro-environment has changed significantly, that we have changed in other times, so I see no reason why such a closing account would not be possible with these observations, or with irregularities found or professional differences confirmed and really focused in 2010, 2011 when, because of the environment in which we are located, it is virtually impossible to compile the figures together, as shown in this final account, but they point to this rigid gap where we have coverage of tax revenues with our planned expenditure in the range of three quarters and 80%. It is said that almost one-fifth or one-quarter of the funds we need to patch up the hole in the financing account, says debt. Therefore, I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we shorten the debate, vote on your conscience or, as instructed in this final account, and direct all energy to Monday and Tuesday's debate on our future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Križanič. He was here, now he's gone. Mrs. Kamnar, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I also have to agree with my colleague Bogovic that some things need to be shortened and brought in by trying to touch every single segment. I will try, too, not to talk about these irregularities and the negative opinion issued by the Court of Auditors. From this context, I would like to shorten the fact that we have to deal with as many irregularities as possible in terms of public procurement, relocation, unjustified promotion to higher classes and so on. I would touch one of the important segments. I suppose the farm master, who mentioned some things earlier, will not mind these things. The realisation of EU funds in the state budget shows that the previous government has been less successful each year in drawing on European funds. And I'll try to sort it out a little bit. In 2008, only 46% of implementation was based on the budget adopted. In 2008, Slovenia received €363 million of European funds from the planned 783 million in the state budget. However, it has paid €427 million. On the basis of the cash flow methodology in the 2008 State budget, Slovenia was a net payer of EUR 64 million. I will return to these 64 million euros later. On the basis of these realisation data for previous years, the difficulties in drawing on European funds from year to year have deteriorated. By comparison, in 2007 the revenue generated from the European Union's funds was 40% and 234 million euros lower than the planned budget. In 2006, if I go this far, the realisation was 23% of the projected. If I make a shorter resume, I'll be brief today. In 2006, 23% less than planned, in 2007 40% less than the expected funding, in 2008 46% less than the expected funding. And if I try to go back now to the debates that were so rich, so wide and so forth, and I limit myself only to the 64 million euros that we should normally have received, and we did not, if we had allocated these 64 million euros to the restructuring of our economy in Slovenia, to the acquisition of new jobs, then we would probably have taken a step forward and not only talked so badly about Muri as she did, but we could have helped this Muri. We could make different incubators through development funds - all over Slovenia, not just in Pomurje - where new companies, micro and small businesses could be created. People could be self-employed. From this I can say clearly and loudly that the economic situation in Slovenia, even at the expense of those funds being put into the economy, would be slightly better than today. There's still a whole set of circumstances I could tell you at the expense of that. We could have a better economy, new jobs, and our 2010 and 2011 budget could be slightly different, we could have a slightly smaller deficit, we could have a smaller decline in economic power. But this is now a proportionate debate. As a result, I am very, very disappointed that the previous government has not implemented measures to speed up the use of European funds. But I can say without worry that at the end of the previous year, the current government has started taking measures to accelerate the absorption of cohesion policy funds. I will only mention two important issues that are already at the table, namely the possibility of making advances from European funds. You probably all know that. Another time. It is possible to redistribute funds from the project to the project if the project is completed in the current year. That's progress. And I suppose it'll be a little better out of this extraction. At least that's how I want it. From this set, only this segment of the implementation of EU funds projects into the state budget, I can say that the implementation of budgetary revenues was 3.9% lower than the 2008 budget. Only from this sector of non-acquisition of EU development funds. Planning. Compared to the revenue realised, the funds received from the European Union show that only 53.6% of the revenues were realised. I can view this without worry as a state that is catastrophic for Slovenia. And it is no wonder that we have such a financial and economic crisis in Slovenia if we have done so in previous years. I estimate that, if it were different, it would be a little sweeter and I can only wish that we could take this as a lesson and that we will be more able to draw on the European funds in the future. From this context of the proposal for a final account, I cannot support it, because from just one segment, and probably no one can resist me, it is unacceptable and in some ways reflects the catastrophic situation where Slovenia came at the expense of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Miran Györek. [[No, no, ……]] Bogdan Chapich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, the final budget account for 2008 has two parts, as has already been found in the debate. One part was being prepared by the current government and must have recorded revenue and expenditure, as they did in the 2008 business year. And she is certainly responsible for the correctness of recording these revenues. Of course, it is difficult to record something if you do not have a budget item or, of course, you also have to register when there are either surpluses or deficits. I would stop at the second part of this final budget report, which is, at that part of the review on the correctness of the implementation of the budget. President or mag. Visik had previously found that this part had only received an opinion with reservation. You could probably get a negative opinion. Indeed, in this part it goes - and this is the sole responsibility of the previous government, except for the last month of December, when that government occurred, of course, when certain regulations were clearly broken, both in employment, wages and other personal benefits, where the report made by the Court of Auditors found that it worked quite domestically. For example, violations of the Public Sector Wages Act, where an employee was wrongly classified as a wage earner, have incorrectly fixed the nominal amounts of the basic salary and some other things. Then there are inconsistencies in the rules and in the taking-up of commitments from the budget. Even so they went so far that even if there was no budget item, payments were made or were not well recorded, including purchases from the sale of capital investments in the country in the SIJ, the Slovenian steel industry, where they spent part of the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljanska Bank, and also recapitalised the New Bank of Maribor without a government order, as of course it was stipulated. Last but not least, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, we have this year, or we have had a proposal that the 15-day payment period for investments and services is a 15-day period, but when we look at this part, which was controlled by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008, it is noted that the obligations have been settled within longer periods than was legally foreseen. But we do know that 60-day deadlines and 30 for services have been enacted. Which means, although there were probably no major financial problems, that the tides were quite regular, these deadlines adopted by the previous government were also not taken into account. Furthermore, the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act. They took up obligations not subject to a contract or concluded a contract without carrying out the prescribed procurement procedure. They did not publish the amendments to the contract in time, they exceeded the limits for the conclusion of the annex, they did not initiate the procedure for the initiation of the procedure, they did not ensure the economic use of public funds, they transferred the powers relating to the invitation to tender to a person of private law, they did not reject incomplete and inadequate tenders. Thus, public tax money was also quite domestically dealt with in this area. All of this comes from the Court of Auditors’ finding. These aren't my findings, these aren't findings that have no weight in the Court of Auditors' report, not to mention where all the things have been. This is actually even bigger, the reason why I cannot support such a closing account. Not only how it was recorded to return to telecommunications networks, as was said. Indeed, these did not come out of the budget because there was no budget line. They came from something else. But this was established in 2007 at the end of the account, and this was not corrected in 2008. Finally, if there are such criticisms and such criticisms in the 2009 final account, I would like to see the Commission's report on budgetary control. Will that be the case? Let's take this, because we're going to take some action and then we're going to do better from tomorrow. I'm sure you don't. And that is why, of course, I am to return this final account to the Government to harmonise the rules and make a budget that will show the actual state of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I was talking about this point - not really about the final account review, but at the end of this review of the final account, where the European Community funds are also being drawn up, I have already spoken to the Member State or I have asked the minister a question. But, look, some of the farce that is being heard here today is really almost incredible, and it's on the part of those who should know and know how these things are going. Let's do it in a row. Initially, no, in mid-2007 a budget was adopted in Europe, where the development and funding perspective for the period 2007-2013 was also adopted. Then, in 2008, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted and in the first half, Minister Žagar actually prepared everything necessary for the calls for both these operational programmes, both for cohesion and for the development of the regions. Specifically. For the development of the regions, there were four calls for 2007-2013 until 2009. On this basis we have exhausted - projects have been adopted, projects have been adopted in the world of the regions, followed by building permits, calls for operators, implementation itself and the demands of the local community to the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say to the Ministry. And only from here do applications from the Republic of Slovenia come to the EU. All these tables that are actually standing today, and all that is being done, will be in the 2009 final account. O.K., but from the work of the former government of Minister Zhagar, as far as the development of the regions is concerned. You know what I'm worried about? I am concerned about what will be in the 2010 and 2011 accounts. Colleagues and colleagues, so far there are no calls for an economic starting point, so sit down or sit down to EUR 500 million. Even this year, the fifth call for regional development, the 300 million euro, was being discussed. Even those 200 didn't sign up, although a few hundred want to stay, I don't know who, for Jankovic in Ljubljana, I don't know what? Next year, 2010, which is coming, there will be no more of these tables, there will be no such investments because there was simply no invitation to tender. Then what? This will not be the case in the 2010 final account review, because the financial flow will not be easy, because for everything I said before, from the call for proposals that the Minister has to make and the request by the local community or beneficiaries of European funds, and then by the Republic of Slovenia until the request to the European Community, a minimum of one year is needed. The EUR 4 billion that the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues have made available throughout the period are simply not going to make use of this "declared" orchestra. We will pay what Slovenia pays in the European budget all the time, but we will not. It is not the worst if there is no financial flow in one year, but it is a disaster if this is no longer the case for 2010.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. Something is certain, these debates in the National Assembly are similar to the conversations of the deaf: we speak, but we do not hear. It is not in my habit, nor do I want to be offensive, but the argument that this proposal for the 2008 final account is bad because, I think, the main reason is this wrong book, it is this 118 million, it is ridiculously said, and if this final account for 2008 is bad if it has a poor financial condition, then I really do not hope to think what the final accounts will be in the future. My opinion is that the 2008 proposal for a final account makes sense to support, despite the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors, and despite some deviations from some of the economic categories planned, which is partly due to the failure to draw on EU funds, as well as to the changed macroeconomic situation. The return on investments in the public telecommunications network and related expenditure was the subject of discussion at the time of receipt of the final account for 2007, and this investment was not recorded among its expenditure in 2008, which is the main observation of the Court of Auditors in the issue of a negative opinion. I mean, and this is also the government's conclusion that this was not even possible, given the principle of cash flow. According to the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, the State has transferred to the Court both obligations and 10% of Telekom’s shares. It is said that this country has also transferred assets to the Court from which that obligation could be recovered. Therefore, together with the transfer of obligations, the State has also provided a source for the payment of these investments, to which citizens and citizens are certainly entitled. As it is said, this is the exact same situation as at the end of the 2007 accounts, only now it is another contractor. In my opinion, it could not have been otherwise, because these expenditure has already been recorded before the Court, and if this manoeuvre of cross-referencing the category of expenditure were to be carried out, I think the result would be the same or nothing - we have to reduce somewhere else if we want to increase it, this is one of the principles of accounting. There is something that strengthens me in my belief that I will support the proposal for a final account for 2008, i.e. the Government's finding that the Court of Auditors, in the process of auditing the final account and in the corrective measures in the audit report to the Government, did not impose a correction of the final budget account; and secondly, the Government also notes that the 2008 state of the public finances of the State sector due to irregularities found by the Court of Auditors is not wrong, as the expenditure and debt in the second unit of the sector are mentioned in the Court of Justice. The budget is part of the country's sector, but if I simplify it when it has been said today, it is possible for the farm to be on the family budget, and it is important that at the end there is a plus, or that there may still be something left for any investment, for what investment, and it is not so important, whether this means that the husband or the wife, to express myself figuratively - of course, if everything is as it is in the family as it should be. And secondly, to correct the final bill for the return, especially at such a position of the Government, which itself is not willing to do so, would be very strange. Otherwise, the deficit identified in 2009 has already been eliminated by the Government in the budget rebalancing. It is said that it has changed the recording of these expenditure to be the expenditure of the budget. As a result, you've probably changed the recording of the Court's expenditure, I suppose. This is, in my opinion, a technical issue that the Government must resolve and, if necessary, also prepare some amendments to public finance legislation to address these shortcomings. As I said in the introduction, I will support the proposal for a final account for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend. You won't? Yes, time is very short. Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I would point out only a few of the points and conclusions set out in these points. I would like to start with the question: what is the purpose of the Court of Auditors' assessment of the final account before it is accepted by the National Assembly? What for? Perhaps in order for the Court of Auditors to be able to deliver an independent opinion, and this opinion can act as a guide to both account preparers and those who need to accept it as a guide to what is right and what is wrong. Second question. Why does the National Assembly have to confirm the final bill? Probably in order to open a debate before this possible confirmation in the National Assembly, and if we finally have to conclude where Members are voting in favour or against, there is a possibility that the final bill will be confirmed or rejected. Of course, on the basis of this, I logically conclude whether we believe that the closing account is correctly written or not. I can see that some of the opposition's colleagues are nodding, but this has been a logical conclusion so far, nothing else. And if I had estimated that the final account in 2007, which had the same problems using the same methodology and where the Court of Auditors found similar cases, I had refused, and twice that, it would have been very illogical and incoherent to myself to accept it this time for 2008. I will therefore vote against this final account. However, I expect that it will be corrected so that the findings of an independent body, which exists in Slovenia, will be taken into account in order to independently assess documents such as the final account. It doesn't matter if the final score is plus, minus or zero. This finding does not alter in any way the functioning of the previous or current government, operating in 2007 or 2008, because what was done good was done, which was done poorly, was done. It's just some kind of coherence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozje will not discuss it. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I just want to explain a few brief comments I've heard, by the way. I would like to say that, of course, the Government has said that the Court of Auditors has not ordered it to correct the final account, because the Court of Auditors cannot and cannot do so under the current Court of Auditors Act. Therefore, in the interviews, when the final accounts for 2008 were reviewed, they could be called "off record" in English, that something must be done with regard to the legislation - or the Court of Auditors or the Public Finance Act. By transforming and moving around that the Court of Auditors did not impose something on the Government and that the sector is a positive country; the state sector, together with the economy in Slovenia, was also positive in the use of European funds, but the state budget, that is what we are discussing and voting here, was neither positive in the acquisition of European funds nor in the proper presentation of the balance sheet, such as the assets of income and expenditure - as the Court of Auditors already found for 2007. [[...]] [[They warned us about the end of the debate.]] So, total scheming and a lot of talking about this matter is essentially a waste of time. [[...]] The fact is, action and things need to be fixed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh will not discuss it. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Respectable. This debate falls under that heading, "It's not true, it is" or "It's impossible". It is not true that this matter would be concerned only with the fact that the wrong books, that the evidence is strange and that it is not so, but that it is primarily about what was and must have been written somewhere. And of course, did they have anything to write, the ones who were preparing this final bill. It is not true that this final account does not have a negative opinion. Here is a summary that says: "The Court of Auditors has issued a negative opinion on the proposal for the general part of the 2008 final budget account." And then he justifies. Today, it has been argued several times that there was no negative opinion, but only some reservations and so on. This is a negative opinion and it goes on. But of course, when we talk about the part where there are opinions with reservations - I firmly believe that there should be even a sharper definition here and that there should also be for negative opinions - even if we take into account some of the following conclusions. Non-compliance with the rules on employment, salaries and other personal benefits. It's a law on civil servants. In the public job competition, they did not publish all the conditions of the current systemisation or extend the conditions for the direction of education, did not execute the competition, did not ensure the equality of candidates, did not provide for provisions on additives in the employment contract, they hired public servants who did not meet the conditions. The Labour Relations Act. They assigned public servants to posts for which they did not meet the conditions. Or, for example, according to the Foreign Affairs Act, apparently at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a staff member who did not meet the conditions for employment and, similarly, that later, when we are talking about public finances, it is actually a whole series of findings, something has already been said today when it comes to non-compliance and errors. Only among other things: in the management of sovereign debt they have increased the costs of debt and debt of the country, they have increased it, it says - you say you have reduced it - so this cannot be understood differently as stated by the Court of Auditors; they have taken up their obligations and paid out from the budget the resources for the digitisation of RTV Slovenia, without all the laws and other rules being fulfilled, they have issued a State guarantee to Slovenian Railways without the applicable legal basis for the issue of the guarantee and so on. I believe that this is not only for an opinion with reservation, but for this I do not go into it because it is an profession and it is the law and the auditors do it in accordance with their laws; but these eyewitnesses that are here are certainly very obvious. While we have been working so long on wage reform in the public sector and similar to the entire sphere of legislation in this area and here - a whole series of conclusions on what has been going on. And of course this is now in conflict with what is also the problem with this government, which I am a sharp critic myself. It is not possible to increase the number of employees in the public sector, but it is estimated that more than 1,000 are there, but probably also because the employed people who do not meet the conditions that were employed past the calls that were employed with the extended prescribed education, as was the rule in the previous term in the National Assembly, that if you were a theologian, you would certainly have been given a job. It's so obvious it's somewhere else. I have nothing against this profile, but a prescribed international lawyer, extended to the theologian -- and by the way, he meets the conditions! And when we talk about this, believe me, I can't believe that it's just that something was wrong and that this government didn't know how to write because it wasn't right or they didn't allow me to write it in this final report, so this is the Court's opinion with reservations. However, it is also negative for this government and for the work that has taken place in this area in the year 2008, as it relates to the content of events or the handling of public money - if you want, it is very simple for all of us to understand each other - in a transparent, legal and regulatory way, including other rules that deal with certain issues. If we move on then, there is a lack of compliance with the rules on the award of public contracts - also obvious. Disagreement - which is bad, which is bad, because this is about subjective decisions and the privileges of some groups - of non-compliance with the rules on the allocation of transfers that have been spilling. You have a whole bunch of these things here so I don't read, but according to the Court of Auditors, it was wrong. And how am I supposed to say that's right and confirm that? I can't! And in the end, there is no question - I think that colleague Yuri spoke about this earlier - to confirm or not to confirm, because it would be embarrassing to the National Assembly or unhygienic that we do not have a certified closing account for a year. There is also no discharge in companies, if not, but also in those who are former. For example, for 2008 they are already in the middle of 2008 or at the end of 2008 - they are no longer insolvent, because business was bad at the time, either against the law or with anything. We're dealing with similar things here. Business, according to the Court of Auditors, even if we finally say whether it was a minus or a plus, could have been a plus and we will find that there was nothing wrong in the financial flow and that nothing has disappeared, but from these readings that I have read about, it turns out that there was a kind of irregularity, inconsistencies or intentional negligence - not to say anything else - in the management of public money. And that's all this is about. So I'm sure you can't expect my support. There has been a lot of talk about drawing on European funds and not delivering calls this year. I know the case when the invitation to tender was issued, even so far as it was written on or close to the skin, because some were expected to be able to run. It went there for 20 million, for two projects, in four tranches and so on. But - what did it find out? This money was not granted; because those who wanted to sign it did not prepare the documentation and the invitation to tender failed. The ones that are the loudest here today. I won't be with names, I won't be with congregations, I won't be with projects, but here we have to be right in one direction and another. I'm really unhappy at the part where we argue about whether we're good at drawing funds or not and so on. Of course, it is wrong not to try to do the most, and not only to exhaust everything, but to see if there are any other reserves, but also to bring something through different projects into this country. But there are more problems here than enough. But above all, it's not a problem with the show. We can do anything, and here with Minister Žagar and later we have had incredible discussions and at the end of various television shows and everything and so on - but only what is below the line, which has actually been realized and what comes through all these projects into this country. The fact that we have some internal rules, which I think are otherwise in line with the rules of the European Union, but yet they are more acute, complicates certain things more than possible. I don't want to go into specific things, because again it takes control and control of this money to be precise, but it can't be that it's for the control of a project that's usually like this - 10, 15 boxes, meters, two, three and so on - it can't be available for two months and one month to prepare. So to control that they check whether they meet these conditions so that they can come in line for payment and things are already running. This is incomprehensible to me, unacceptable, because of course this control must be faster and release these potentials. Even after all this, even now in this autumn time, when we don't have much time to "clean" the 2009 balance, in narrations, that what we have is approved, we can pump up to that point when we can do it. But this picture here is not black and white. It is not true that there are just no invitations to tender and so on, but there are many, many of those who plan, to those who ultimately approve, pay, and so on. But we're gonna talk about this, I believe. I won't support it. Or the other way around! I will vote against the final bill. But if the government comes with anything else on the basis of amended laws, with a correction, I might change my mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Tadej Slapnik will not be. Mr. Franz Jursha. No, no, no. He's quitting. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. He won't. Mr. Franco Yuri. No, no, no. Willie Trophynic. No, no, no. Dr. Pavel Gantar doesn't. Mag. Andrej Vizjak. No, no, no. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I was already afraid of getting out of this final balance sheet. Dear colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. Today, it appears, the second time the government will be defeated in two days in the National Assembly. Yesterday, the coalition agreement fell at the point of irreconcilability of functions. Today, the final bill prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is likely to fall. This is the government of Borut Pahor. The Government found in its 7th point in this accompanying letter, when it processed the final accounts for 2008 in the National Assembly, that the state of the State's public finances for 2008 due to irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors is not incorrect - colleague Anderlič-, the statement since the expenditure and liabilities mentioned are covered in another unit of the State sector. If I return to the final account that we have accepted in March or April of this year, I can find that this final account is actually prepared on the same concept and on the basis of the same findings or assumptions in the underlying argument used by the Court of Auditors. This is for the correctness of the statement. In view of the fact that the Government is composed of many who, in the previous mandate, have sharply criticised the way in which the final accounts for 2007, would expect the Government to do its utmost to make this model a concept that was applied to the final accounts for 2007 and which has also been challenged by the Court of Auditors in order to correct those starting points. After all, the government had a month and a half to prepare a budget rebalancing for 2008, where these findings of the Court of Auditors could also be rectified and regulated. For Mr Cwickl and the others who signed under this act, and who also criticised the solutions and implementation of the budget in the previous term, knew how to do so. The government has had time to settle this with a rebalancing at the end of the year and to make sure that this part of the statement is arranged differently - as the Court of Auditors thinks it would be necessary to do so. But the government didn't do it. Even more, the worst critic of the previous government, the previous statement of public finances was nominated even for a member of the European Court of Auditors, Mr. Cwickl, who signed under the document and forwarded it to the National Assembly for admission and with the knowledge that it is not the same as the Court of Auditors, was proposed or appointed as a member of the European Court of Auditors at the last meeting of the Government. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Mr Tanko, when you mention this for the third time, I will warn you to stop talking about it, because this is not the content of the final account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	Directly related to the signatory to the proposal for the National Assembly [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	who has his own function to perform as long as he has it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Mr Vice-President, I think I am the first to experience your reminder, and I am discussing this last item on the agenda today. And everyone else has talked about everything possible: the prehistoric and the future. At exactly this point in the agenda. It is said that the Government consciously went to submit and adopt such a closing account as it had submitted to the National Assembly. And in this case, it seems extremely problematic that this final account will be abolished by the coalition - the coalition of the proposer. At least from the discussions that have been detected here, I can see that coalition parties will break their own government's proposal. Interesting! I think a lot of people in this country should ask themselves about a lot of things. First of all, how it is possible for the Government to propose a final account, knowingly contrary to the Court of Auditors; and secondly, to propose people who accept such a case to the institutions of the European Union. It's a kind of misdirection in these matters. If you cancel this final account and then file your own proposals to amend the legislation with your own government, I also have a question of retroactivity. First time. And secondly, I am asked what this dream team has actually done this year that it has not already proposed any appropriate measures to at least further resolve matters. We will now adopt some acts with which we will re-establish solutions, year or year and so. Interesting. However, it is obvious that the methodology used by this government is such that this retroactivity is one of the basic models. Remember the Law on Local Self-Government, remember the taxation of management benefits and the shaking hand of the President of the Republic, who sent us a letter to all Members of the National Assembly, and now we will do something that will change certain items in the final account for a long time in 2008. I think there is a need to act differently in these and such cases. In particular, if I remind you once again that we have again decided on the procedure - for example, in the case of the tolling law, you have not supported it; this law provides for the upgrading of the toll system without a call for tender. No invitation to tender. And I wonder how any coalition can say so much and so many comments on what has happened: at the same time, when it adopts a law on public procurement in one area and another, and also a law on the revision of public procurement procedures, when it speaks of doing everything that will make transparency significantly greater, it will also bring to the National Assembly a law that will upgrade the toll system on Slovenian motorways, which is extremely outdated and at a non-European frequency, without a call for tender, without a public procurement procedure. I think the government and the coalition should first ask themselves how it's possible that there are such situations, I'll say, transcendent situations. Thus, on the one hand, nothing that has been done in the past is good, is not right, is not correct, nor is it properly published, nor is it properly stated, and solutions are adopted and proposed, which are in sharp contradiction with the legislation in force! With the legislation in force. However, if you propose laws that are even more acute in this area, they require even more transparency, in general. I think that all those working in these areas should devote a lot of work to the future work in the future, but obviously, these measures are different. By ensuring that this final account returns to the government procedure, you will certainly not contribute to the crisis situations [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] Because you're not going to do anything counter-crisis, but just one more story that the National Assembly is going to be dealing with barren procedures and barren issues. [[...]] With things that don't bring anything at all, but just [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich wanted to explain his debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	Yeah, that's right. Since Mr Tanko misrepresented my implementation, I had in my hands a summary of the audit report the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, and I quoted this from this paper. Of course, he manipulated and read only point 7 of the proposal sent by the Government, and in this part he gave more than an obvious incorrect interpretation, because the report and then the summary clearly states: "The Court of Auditors has issued a negative opinion on the proposal for the general part of the 2008 final budget account, because the balance of revenue and expenditure between the non-tax revenue does not show dividends paid... and so on. From this, the Government understood and stated that "the main reason for the negative opinion is too low budget expenditure for beneficiaries to invest in a public telecommunications network of EUR 101.5 million. If expenditure had been properly shown, the budget would have been €43 million in deficit in 2008. For the same reason, revenue in the funding budget of EUR 108.1 million has also been incorrectly shown, and therefore the extent of the State budget's debt following the Court of Auditors' finding is greater than the proposal for a final account." That's all I've been talking about. It is not possible to interpret this differently than I mentioned earlier. Now, is that why someone has doubts and reservations about whether or not they support this by eclamation is a matter of free judgment? As we say, these two statements differ substantially, and I insist on my own, and I will do so in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? Mag. Stonewall, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I would respond to Mr Tank's statement that the Government did not respect the Court of Auditors' opinion when preparing the final budget account. I think the explanation that the government sent to the National Assembly is the one that answers why this was simply not possible. The Public Finance Act clearly sets out what the final budget account means. This is a report on the implementation of the adopted budget and since the adopted budget for 2008 did not contain expenditure and an obligation, which is crucial to the fact that a negative opinion has been expressed, of course the final budget account cannot contain this. The claim that the Government had sufficient time to prepare a budget rebalancing and a budget error for 2008 to end, I think it is inappropriate because it is reliable within one month and one week, as long as the new government was available to do so, it was not possible to prepare and adopt a national budget balance under the current rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. All those who wanted and were reported, you've got your word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss the subject? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today, as part of the vote in half an hour. I hereby terminate this agenda item, as well as the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. We will continue it at 3:30 a.m. by vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Chambers, following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, [[I'd ask for peace]] I'm moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue to end the 17th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Restructuring Decision of the University of Maribor. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Mag. A visor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Respectable. This is an extremely important decision; the decision to establish a new university, the Faculty of Tourism in Brežice. Those who know the complete procedure for establishing a university outside the center know what a great achievement this is. In fact, many higher education institutions, including universities, especially the University of Maribor, are open to initiatives after decentralisation of higher education studies. It is open to initiatives to bring the study closer to the economy and to bring it closer to the school population. The engagement of the University of Maribor, as well as many, especially many municipal authorities in Brežica, has led to this decision that we have today. I am glad that the current government has also sent this forward, although I do not understand why it took one year for this thing to be here in Parliament. However, I am glad that this decision has taken place, which is important for both the University of Maribor and, of course, also for Brežice and Posavje and even Slovenia. This gives the University of Maribor a new member in the field of tourism, one of the most promising economic industries. However, the supremacy is given to the institution, which, for the first time, will bring schooling closer to it; secondly, it will enable faster development of the tourism economy and, of course, especially the Posavia tourist economy, will relieve the costs of a wide range of schooling and parents, and in particular this decision today is one big task for all to come. In fact, it is important to establish such a university, and it is even more important to develop this college as a quality or quality higher education institution further. So today it's a born child that we have to raise from the beginning to become an example in terms of quality, to become an attractive, prestigious college, to which students will love to enroll. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this proposal, not only that, we will do everything possible to see such proposals in the future in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 18th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end item 2 of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Mr. Mag. A visa on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	Your Honor! The Group of Members will support this amendment, particularly for the reason that it shares the belief that in times of economic and financial crisis it is unwise and harmful to increase the tax burden. We do double damage, we do damage to the economy for the first time, because it will be harder to sell its articles. I must stress that Slovenia's automotive cluster, which produces a lot for the European automotive industry, also lives on such laws as we are dealing with here today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with this first amendment, we propose a lower progression, which is said to be a lower rate of car taxes for all classes of CO2 emissions per kilometer. We believe that what the Government is proposing is extreme taxation, which is almost unique in the European space, so we propose lower, lighter, and yet some taxation that follows progressive CO2 emissions per kilometer. On the contrary, other Member States of the European Community introduce subsidies and thereby encourage consumers and the automotive industry. In contrast to these good practices of other countries, we are additionally taxing cars, and this is taking care of the environment at the time of the economic crisis. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose and correct the Government's intention to do what is done in the basic text with this amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Mr. Dr. Luka Juri on behalf of the Group of Members, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	Yesterday, when we accepted the declaration on Slovenia's active role in combating climate change, we all found that words must follow actions. And that these actions will sometimes be difficult, but inevitable, if we are to save us. The first action followed by those words yesterday is today's law, and it is awareness that we must turn tax policy in the direction that those who pollute more pay more, and those who pollute less pay less. Social Democrats will not support this amendment, because we support the law in its entirety, as it is now designed, especially because this scale, as it is now proposed, will reduce taxation for environmentally friendly vehicles and increase taxation for more wasteful vehicles. It will therefore be a restructuring of the tax burden, not an increase, on restructuring because environmentally friendly vehicles will be less burdensome. Social Democrats are also aware of the problems of the economic crisis. We know that this cannot be an excuse not to pursue a green policy. However, there must be a reason for us to introduce transitional periods. Therefore, we already have a transitional period of one year in this law, where taxes will be lower for almost all passenger cars than they are now. For this reason, we see no reason to accept such an amendment, which we consider to be primarily intended to seek political points, but not to seek a systemic solution for one initial concern, and this is the concern for people, which means that they care about the environment in which these people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that we've had, we've got on the table one of the "mangled" laws that the government has already introduced. This is a matter where it appears that the legislator does not know the issue. I must say that I was very happy this morning when my colleague Kumar of the Social Democrats himself found that the law was totally incompatible with the reality. The fact is, it's very thoughtful here, and that the SD colleagues probably don't know what they want, and I hope they'll vote like they voted yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	Polemic, Mr. Jelinčič. [[...]] Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	The fact is, when we talk about environmental pollution, we need to know that old cars pollute the environment significantly more than new ones. The law will lead to Slovenians not buying new cars anymore, but to importing old cars from Europe. It is also true that stronger engines today do not work more emissions, but lower emissions, less fuel consumption, less emissions. That is why it is necessary to have some intelligence in your head that it is known that a diesel engine from about fifteen years ago pollutes about seven times the diesel engine of the same power that was made today. But of course, the government doesn't know that, it doesn't understand. Once again, given yesterday - I hope that some will think about it and that they will vote as they voted under the mayoral law, as they said yesterday after their conscience. I hope they have a conscience today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, for 38, for 39. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Mr. Mag. Visa on behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Vice President. With this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that for certain passenger vehicles which have seven more seats together with the driver's seat and for which there is also a version of this vehicle in the load, the rate of the tax shall be halved. Why? In doing so, we want to take a step against small businesses or the general economy, thereby decommissioning those vehicles, which are also used for economic purposes for a whole range of services on the ground and so forth. We have a lot of these small vehicles, which have some extra cargo in addition to the staff space, either for material or for tools or anything. We propose that these motor vehicles are subject to tax as these motor vehicles are intended to generate revenue because they are mainly used for economic activities. None of us need a load version of the M1 passenger vehicle to transport persons or to transport them to work. Therefore, we also want to make one positive gesture to the economy through this and to ease the economy slightly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Mr. Dr. Luka Yuri on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Social Democrats will not support this amendment, because in the draft law that we now have under consideration, we already have a provision that enforces lower taxation, lower taxation for those multi-passenger vehicles precisely because they are more environmentally friendly, although the vehicle may completely pollute more than a smaller passenger vehicle, bring more passengers and therefore we have fewer vehicles on the road. We will also not support it out of consistency, because we have already shown the view that more specific taxation of trucks should be considered. And we are not the only ones in the National Assembly who have such an attitude. If we talk about the specific taxation of trucks, it would be inconceivable to lower smaller trucks and raise bigger trucks. It's one integrity, and we're going to stick to that integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	We're voting. The vote is under way. 78 Members and Members voted for 35, up to 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the third amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members, 33 votes to 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Mr. Mag. Here you go, vizka, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I ask for any of the amendments to support others, besides us, of course, who will support this amendment, this is the one. Rather, the basic text, which is a drastic new taxation of engines. Taking into account that motor cycles perform approximately four times the average kilometers per year as passenger vehicles, and considering that engines are subject to the half-season, according to cars, we can find that at the same engine power they are several times the lower pollutant when we talk about CO2 emissions. However, these engines are subject to higher taxation according to emissions than for cars, as proposed by the Government, about ten times. The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment reduces taxation and the progression of taxation for motors, which is still in place, but is at least comparable now after this amendment to car taxation. We believe that it is unfair for those who are also the first players in traffic, namely those who, say, buy a scooter, to be taxed more than comparable if they buy a car. Remember that under this law scooters are taxed for an additional 7% according to the current application. This will also tax mopeds from Tomas, which have been produced in Slovenia and have not been taxed so far. This reduces people's access to these means of transport or bicycles by motor, reduces the production of the articles in Slovenia, is less competitive or more alienated from people, burdens the economic operator who manufactures them, so I believe that the Government could have a slightly more cautious hand here and tax them less. The amendment to paragraph 13 seeks primarily to reduce this taxation of engines, following the first proposal of the Government. This proposal is the first proposal that the Government has made and has sent it into some coordination, which has then increased it twice. So he also took a professional role, but the government probably decided for fiscal reasons to increase this tax burden. We will support this in the SDS and ask for broader support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. The Group of Social Democrats of this amendment will not support it. For the first time, it is the principle of the law itself, of course we want to tax all motor vehicles in this class, namely motorcycles and passenger cars. We don't tax trucks with that. Second, of course, it is very relative, who pollutes more or less. If we look at by force, we have tax rates here, they are also polluters who achieve about such pollution causing such pollution, as well as personal vehicles of this power, and transport much less passengers. We heard earlier that there was also a possibility of reduction in the vans, because this is also relative to what is more and what is less. And the van is actually less polluting. Secondly, we have a chance to consider the third reading of the proposal. A number of initiatives have also taken place around these motorists' associations. I believe that this should also be reviewed, and if the proposal for a law in the third reading is to be read at the December session, we will also be able to look at this option and examine it. We wouldn't be supporting this right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I'll repeat that I don't "bleep" so closed and speak only one. Give me a second to think! You can't compare engines and save global worlds and pollution with engines. Don't be so funny! Let's see if you want between 150 and 3,000 euros to be more expensive. This is your goal and nothing else. Those who drive will drive. I now expect you to say that this is a measure by which you will reduce the number of dead motorists because they will buy fewer engines and so on. That's what you got! Be smart for once! They're gonna buy old bikes, 'cause whoever's driving is gonna drive. They're gonna kill each other even more with their old bikes. Why can't the Slovenian children have the Tomos moped, the one for 25 cubic centimeters that doesn't contaminate with which they can drive to the store? Why do you have to do it right away for 100 euros? Why do you have to run a 50-cubic scooter? So you're going to solve the pollution? Yesterday our President made it clear that we will not save, nor will Copenhagen save this world as long as the Americans and the Chinese do what they do, only the whole world will save him. And not now to demean and talk, you can't talk about the power of engines and pollution. You can't talk about being so polluted if they can't drive on a natural course for more than eight months. If after all the other parameters, at least once put them together and look at them, there must be three to seven times smaller pollutants than large ones. Count it down and count it down, it's simple mathematics. You'll get very little in the budget, but we'll do a lot of damage. This government is trying, but everything's not good, which it does, so let's face it. Everyone's got mistakes. The last one had them, and she's got them, and she's gonna have them. But with such content, you can see immediately, you just look at the calculation, 3,000 euros you want to increase the prices only on the basis of this law and the taxes that are prescribed. The other Group also offers some tax rates, which are much lower and more acceptable, with the same effect. No, tell me in truth that you want to take everything and disable people from the little joy they have. But to say that one of you should start selling and producing, help, electric motors, that's not. To work in Slovenia and to help with this. It's totally out of the question. We will support this amendment. And we won't be at the end of the marriage unless these amendments are accepted. And you're gonna do a lot of damage to everyone's memory.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. On behalf of the delegation? No, in a personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I agree with the explanation given by the amendment's proponents. Such or at least similar in the debate was also in various coordinations before this law entered the parliamentary procedure. And he's having a hard time adding something. It is true that the motoristic season is shorter than any other season. It is true that only one person rides them, not more than that in the van. If you look at the benefits of driving a scooter and the benefits of driving in a van, you will easily respond. The scooter is 100% used whenever you drive, but the van is rarely used. And a bunch of other things. If in the beginning it has been said that the fundamental purpose is for someone to pollute more, to pay more, and whoever pollutes less, to pay less, this amendment is exactly that. The one who pollutes less should pay less. The proposal here on the table, good, I am sorry that I cannot say this on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, I am speaking on my behalf and here some colleagues. I hope, if not before, that by the third reading, as was said, these things will be clarified. It's not about talking in your head, as it was obvious here. It is in mind to oppose such a proposal, which is more justified than the current government proposal. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you. It is certainly fun when in words extremely expressed concern for nature is masked by a purely banal milking of voters. Because that's exactly what you're doing right now. If you were really concerned about nature and emissions, then we would be discussing the issue of thermal power plants, which is our problem, and we would particularly be discussing the issue of freight, transit transport, which is in fact the biggest polluter and is the most destructive of Slovenian roads. Not about the drastic increase in taxes on engines, which, compared to the problem I have mentioned, i.e. transit and freight, are directly negligible, small, insignificant problems from this point of view. It's not about the environment, it's about purely ordinary compression, printing, or, as that humorous week, it likes to use the term "electoral mousse". And this is just one political experience for the further growth of political culture in Slovenia. Let everyone know that when they choose the left, that means higher taxes, followed by even higher taxes, and then followed by even higher taxes, and you will not believe, then the taxes will be raised. Because it's the only thing left can do. When it comes to strengthening the economy, however, it is wise to choose wisely. This is an experience the whole world knows. And today it will obviously be introduced to everyone who uses motor vehicles in Slovenia as well. But we will certainly be happy to publish these lists, and all motorcycles will be able to see who put those taxes on their heads. I hope they're in classic motorcyclists. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Traditions knew what to do then. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	I'm opening the application, please. Mr. Kontic, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I ask for a 15-minute recess, in accordance with the opportunity provided by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	I will grant your request. I'd just like to finish my explanation of vote, if you don't mind. Anybody else? Then I interrupt this point before deciding on the amendment to Article 4. We'll pick it up at 4:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Messengers and Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We decide on the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. An explanation of vote was given. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	In view of the fact that we have requested a recess before deciding, let me say that we have consulted in the Group of Social Democrats before the decision is taken, as well as with the parliamentary groups within the coalition, and have agreed to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, at this stage, I predict that we will find a more appropriate solution in the third reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving and deciding on the fifth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the sixth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Mr. Mag. Visa on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Vice President. If the mission of this proposal is a matter of principle for environmental protection, then this amendment must be supported. Why? This amendment wants to bring the taxation of motor vehicles on the electric drive to 0. According to the current proposal, the taxation of motors exclusively on an electric drive with a certain rate of tax, i.e. 0.5%, is foreseen. 0.5% probably doesn't mean a lot of money, but one symbolic message that's negative. That is to say, even if you do not broadcast as a motor vehicle, you are taxed for the ecological mission of this law. I think that's a bad message. I think that the explanation that went into the light, even all electric-powered motor vehicles, is used for their electricity operation, which also generates emissions. It is not true that certain electricity production does not produce emissions. Most production in Slovenia is a product of production from non-carbon or renewable energy sources. And I don't know why we would tax a minority of production under this argument, but not most. So most of them are from rivers and nuclear power plants. As a result, my assessment of this is worthy of support. There will be no fiscal effects here, or they will be neglected. It is symbolic, it is a message that those who buy an electric motor vehicle will not be subject to taxation under this Motor Vehicle Tax Act. I think that's reasoned enough and you'll listen to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	We're voting. The vote is under way. 77 Members and Members voted, 35 to 37. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the seventh amendment of the Group to Article 4. We're voting. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members voted for 31 to 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. Mr. Mag. Visa on behalf of the Group of Members. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. This amendment is essentially a compliment to the first amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the previous article. And the previous amendment has not been voted out, and yet this amendment can be, let's say, a single amendment. This amendment provides for a slightly lower rate of taxation during the transitional period and, therefore, for the possible preparation of all, both buyers and sellers of motor vehicles, cars, on the condition of higher taxes. That's why I think it's good to support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 78 Members and Members, 33 votes to 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment has not been adopted in the second reading of the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2008 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal, so it will support the final budget account for 2008. Why? In view of the fact that the substance of the dispute in relation to the controversial debate at the end of the 2007 accounts is the same as: whether the Government correctly recorded the expenditure related to the payment of investments in the public telecommunications network. Both governments, the former government and the current government, recorded this expenditure in the same way or did not record it as budget expenditure because there was no cash flow but was recorded in the Slovenian Compensation Society. In both cases, the Court of Auditors found that this was wrong and issued an opinion. This expenditure has occurred and is neutral if we look at the wider sector of the country. The Court of Auditors says that it should be from the budget, not from the Court of Justice, it was from the Court and not from the budget. Both companies are state-owned or state-owned. It is tax money and a dispute over the shadow of Oslo, according to the local word, if we look at the content and public finances. But if we look at standards recording, writing, auditing, then that may not be the case. It is therefore necessary to amend the law in order to be able to record this differently and to service it accordingly. I think that the undeniable fact is that what the current government has found is that the final budget account was positive, that we had an surplus of €65 million, and that this was one of the last budgets that was somehow completed with the surplus and that there will be a period of huge deficits announced by the Government with the 2010 and 2011 budget documents. Your Honor! I think it would be very unfair to reduce the decision on the final account as a decision on the conflict between the former and the current government, between the legacy and the legacy left by the former government. I think there's statistics on this legacy that are irrefutable. Statistics record facts. You can read the statistics so that I will not repeat them, even in the reports of the current government, in the budgetary documents of the current government, the legacy is good. And on that basis, it would be better to rule. I estimate that the final account is adjusted to take into account the irregularities to be addressed by the Court of Auditors. And this is where we can work together. To reverse the facts, but it's not okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 37. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 is not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 11th meeting of the choir that we're going to be [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Mr Tanko has a procedural proposal before I interrupt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I have received a call for the continuation of the 4th urgent session of the Commission on Petitions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u217	Members and Members, please, if you please sit down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u218	I note that this reference has been made beyond the rules of procedure, despite the knowledge of Mrs Eva Irgl, the president of the working body, and I note that this has led to a blow in this working body. I propose to the honourable members of the Commission for petitions and those who have decided to work in this manner in the National Assembly to reconsider your conduct. I propose that you cancel this meeting the one you have convened and take into account the second paragraph of Rule 20 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "If the President of the National Assembly is absent or detained, he shall be replaced by the Vice-President appointed by the President." For working bodies, the procedures are analogous. And if that's how you decided to do it, then things in the National Assembly can get very complicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u220	And again, I call upon those who have decided to work in such a way as to call off the Commission, because it is impossible for Mrs Pate to pass through the President of the National Assembly or Mr Magajna or anyone else to order a meeting of the working body. In the following case, we may also convene a meeting of the National Assembly as well as other working bodies in the National Assembly in this way or decide another solution that will [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. This wasn't a procedural proposal, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u222	Of course he was.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u223	This was only a message to Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u224	Honourable Vice-President [[.....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u225	I'm adjourning the 11th session, which we'll continue on Monday. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-20-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u226	Mr. Vice President. [[...]] I propose that the President of the National Assembly ensure that the Rules of Procedure are implemented. Like you do now, it's a real anarchy. And if you want anarchy, we'll continue.
