ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Radovan Žerjav, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Dr. Laszlo Göncz, Joško Godec, Guido Kres by 2 p.m., Marijan Pojbič, Janez Janša and Bogdan Barovic. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to the sitting. Mr. Tanko, would you like a word on the agenda? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I note that the title of the item you have placed on the agenda today is not in line with what we Members of the two groups of Members, together of the 32 proposers, mentioned in the request for a legislative referendum. In fact, instead of calling for a legislative referendum as a point of the agenda, you have included in the proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly that the Constitutional Court decide whether or not the application of the law would have an adverse effect. I would like to remind you that the matter is different than it was at one of the previous 9th extraordinary sessions when we addressed our request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Lawyers. At that time, as a point of the agenda, you placed a request for a legislative referendum, and this time you placed the point of "proposal of a decision". And before we begin the consideration of this item on the agenda, I propose, or also request, on behalf of the applicants, that you state the business and legal basis that, in these cases, two requests for invitation to tender for a legislative referendum have been otherwise addressed. I am of the opinion that the basis, the starting point for addressing this point and also the starting point for the decision of the working body is, in fact, the requirements for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. The working body has adopted a procedural decision at this hearing, which is usually the case, and has proposed that our request be made for constitutional review. The proposal is corrected in this part, but the creation of the title of the agenda item at this extraordinary meeting is not correct. It is not right because it is not - first the roof and then the foundation, but first it is the foundation and then we talk about the roof. And the proposal for a decision is the roof to this point, not the foundation. Therefore, I propose that the name of the point be changed, namely that the point is required to call for a subsequent legislative referendum on those two laws which we have tabled in the procedure. This is one process proposal. However, the second procedural proposal is that, as I have now proposed, the proposal also needs to be changed. The proposal for a point is a group of Members and the opinion of the working body by means of a proposal for a decision is an integral part of the procedure for addressing this item on the agenda. And the working body in this case cannot act as a candidate of the point, but one of the rapporteurs - just like the Government and so on. Shortcut [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Tanko, the distinguished leader of the Group of Members. Colleagues and colleagues. The requests for a legislative referendum submitted by a group of more than 30 Members cannot be made for a decision by the National Assembly, because this requirement is a de facto requirement in the sense that the referendum should be called for, a draft decision and a referendum, or if the National Assembly decides to take a decision to refer this request to the Constitutional Court for a referendum, with regard to the unlawful consequences that might have arisen at the time of the referendum. That is why we cannot and will not decide on this request. With regard to the proposal, I can say once again that the proposer of the point is the one who prepares the decision-making act for the decision of the assembly and this act for the decision of the assembly has prepared the working body of the mother and therefore the working body of the applicant. I would warn you that the applicants could also be the initiators of the request or signed for the invitation to tender if they prepared a proposal for a resolution to be discussed, but that is not the case. In such a way that the conduct of the President of the National Assembly is exactly the same and in accordance with the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which sets out the proposal to the person who prepares the proposal for a decision-making act. And there will be no change here, and that's always been the way and never the way it was. That is why I will no longer allow a debate, procedural or any other, and I am moving on to a vote on the definition of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u4	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u5	the agenda. [[...]] I propose to the Assembly that it appoints today's meeting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u6	President! Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u7	The agenda as received by reference. [[...]] We're moving to the vote. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Please, procedurally. We are in the voting phase, moving to the vote. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I've been interpreting your rules of procedure, as I think it's the only right thing to do. [[...]] There is no more discussion about this. Please, procedurally, before the vote? Let's make a procedural proposal first. Mr. Jelinčič, a procedural proposal before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Mr. President! This is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's a violation of the Constitution and more. The fact is that the mother's working body gave only an opinion on the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Let me tell you one more time, or you'll interrupt me again! Is that democracy or what it is? You're in charge of the whole thing. Please, if I may make a suggestion, then you will take my word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Here's your suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Please put to the vote at least to change the title of the act. The draft act was submitted by the two parliamentary groups, the SNS and the SDS, not by what the mother's working body did. The mother's working body gave only its opinion on a proposal for an act. That is to say, we must vote on that basic requirement, and then on the proposal of the parent working body. No, but there's Mr. Plevelj planting another pumpkin for you. Please put this to the vote. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I have already said, Mr Jelinčič, I cannot put this procedural proposal to the vote because it is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative and what has prepared the competent home labour body. At the same time, I would like to remind you to adhere to some basic rules when communicating in the National Assembly. Thank you very much! Before the vote, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Dear Mr. President! It would probably be normal for us to hold a debate on procedural proposals first, before the vote, and the matter will still come. I have called on you in my debate earlier to list and quote the business provisions which provide for the creation of a agenda item as you have afforded and the legal provision which allows it or which requires that the point be so designed. I'm guessing you didn't answer that. I am deeply convinced that the title of today's "Requirement for a legislative referendum" should be as requested by the signatories and thus comply with the requirement of Article 85 of the Constitution, meet the requirement of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative and comply with all the business provisions. What you have enjoyed with this manipulation at the title has not even been afforded at the April session, which we had on a similar subject to the invitation to a legislative referendum on the New Law on Lawyers. There you wrote "an invitation to tender", and we also put the matter into constitutional review because there was also a proposal for a conclusion of the working body. Today, the point is no different. The request was formulated in the same way. We have presented the same documents, and there is no basis in the Rules of Procedure, neither in law nor in the Constitution, for you to create the title or name of the request that we have submitted to the National Assembly. You don't have any grounds. If you do, I ask you to quote carefully the articles of the Rules of Procedure which allow you to do so, as well as the provisions of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. If you said to the College in May that you would do exactly as the Rules of Procedure did, then you would probably agree with this request, business requests, easily. It is probably not in your interest, either, that the members of the National Assembly would not get the correct argument for what you have done. We demand that you actually explain this to us - the provisions on which you did it and otherwise, as you designed it for an identical topic at the April extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Why two different matters, and we both resisted the conclusion of the working body. You once gave this as the title of the point and the second as a process matter. And I believe that the working body can only come up with a procedural proposal to address this point, this requirement. We have this on our agenda, and we will vote on this as we do in any other law that has not been enacted or anywhere else. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Although, of course, it is not the custom, it should not be the rule that on the initiative of the president of the National Assembly, on the basis of which the Rules of Procedure are governed, or the law, I will nevertheless do so for a change. I hope this doesn't get revenge later. I shall explain and conduct the meeting as required by Articles 12 and 21 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the procedure for the adoption of other acts of the National Assembly, including Article 66, which lays down the method of proposing at specific points of the agenda. That concludes the question. No more questions. We're moving to the vote. I won't give you another word, Mr. Tank. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! I find that, even though you are the chairman and representative of the entire National Assembly, you do not respect what is stated in the Rules of Procedure. If the Members wish to make a procedural proposal and question, they must have a word as soon as they request it. You violate the basic provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think you can lead to a successful conclusion with this kind of work of the National Assembly. In the vote on the agenda, we predict obstruction, the whole parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u19	So, strictly speaking, the obstruction is referred to in the Rules of Procedure only at specific points of the agenda. We now vote on the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič. We're before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the President of the National Assembly, with the support of all coalitions, violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, violates the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia when he does not allow the opposite party to give its opinion, he does not show the basic articles on the basis of which he carries out his usurpation of power here, even the Slovenian National Party declares obstruction when voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have already explained at the College of the President of the National Assembly what should be our opinion on what the agenda of today's meeting should be. Given that the point is not correctly formulated according to our assessment, I am predicting obstruction in the vote on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly, the obstruction of the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u23	In fact, Article 65, second paragraph, prohibits the provision of notices at a specific point in the agenda, not in the vote on the establishment of the agenda of the National Assembly, and cannot even be considered an obstruction. Since heavy words have been spoken, I repeat that my conduct is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and the Rules of Procedure, that I cannot compare or that what is required by the initiators or'requestors' of the call is to make their demands for a decision because the requirement is such that the National Assembly may not decide on it, but must call a referendum or send a referendum before the call for a referendum with a decision to the Constitutional Court. Of course, I violated the legal rights of the applicants to apply for a legislative referendum. There's no dilemma here. So, we're moving on to a decision. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. So we don't have a quorum. We are going back to the vote. We're voting. There are 38 Members and Members present. I'm hanging up and we'll pick it up at 11:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Please take your benches. We turn to the third vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 40 Members and Members present. I find that the assembly is not adjourned, so I am adjourning the meeting. We'll continue at 2 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. We are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. 47 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY COURT - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION CONCERNING THE REQUEST OF THE COURT OF COURT, IF BY DESIRING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM SYSTEM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR AND THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE LAW ON COURT SERVICE OR FOR THE REFERENCE OF THE REFERENCES OF THE LEASTING RESULTS. 32 Members and Members submitted to the Assembly on 29 September 2009 a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector and on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. With regard to this request, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposed to the Council a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by deferring the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service or their Rejection at Referendums, there could be unconstitutional consequences. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, the President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Wait a minute! Procedurally, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I have a question. I would like to know the status of the alleged obstruction previously expressed. Now I see colleagues present in the hall. What happened before? So that we can also know what three times a failed vote means. Was this obstruction at this point of the agenda, or was it just a absence? I don't know, it wasn't possible to understand exactly what our colleagues were actually telling us in the first place, but they weren't in the voting room.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since this so-called obstruction was announced, I have pointed out that this obstruction has not been properly carried out, in accordance with Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure, where the Head of the Group may indicate the absence of all members of the Group when dealing with each item on the agenda, stating the reasons for such absence. That wasn't the case. Thank you very much. Please, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much for explaining. Does this mean that a part of the salary will be withdrawn from colleagues who have not voted three times this month?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u29	This means that the mandate-voluntary committee will discuss this and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will adopt an appropriate definition. Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Tanko? Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The Rules of Procedure allow that the Group of Members may order obstruction in any vote. We have announced obstruction at the point of validation of the agenda, and I predict that we will also participate in this meeting. However anyone comments and wonders about this decision, the Group of Members also has a basis in the Rules of Procedure. And anyhow, Madam President, the interpretation of how you will evaluate this is not within your purview, but within the purview of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Well, that was a comment. It wasn't a procedural proposal. As I said, it's the responsibility of the MVK to decide the thing we talked about. The Chair of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Dr Vinko Gorenak, has the floor. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to explain in particular to those colleagues who do not know what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are or do not care what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are. The SNS Parliamentary Group has announced obstruction of voting for the agenda, the agenda is now adopted, the obstruction is no longer in the "spil" as it is called [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u33	In the game [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Yeah, I know, but some people don't understand it, so I said it the way they talk in their circles. So we're no longer in obstruction. Regarding wage-taking, I think, if this was a practice in some municipalities to have this practice there, however, the National Assembly is one as serious institution as it is. At least she's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As it is said, this will be decided by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Finally, the Chair of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Dr Vinko Gorenak, has the floor. Presentation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'm acting as a motioner, at least that's what the documents we've received say. In this regard, let me remind you that the Group of Members and Members of the SDS and SNS is 8 April or 1 April. Ten. 2009 has submitted a request for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. The Committee has dealt with the matter under the heading I have just said, but on the Committee a majority of 9 votes to 5 adopted a decision to discuss something else, namely to propose to the National Assembly a different item on the agenda, namely: a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by delaying the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service or their Rejection in the Referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. I must say that the Committee adopted this decision with nine votes in favour and five against, but at the same time I must conclude that we had a perfectly identical situation already in April this year, when a group of Members and Members proposed a referendum, if I shorten, on the law of defence, even then the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed this matter, and even then the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted a decision to go to the Constitutional Court with the question of whether there would be any unlawful consequences. At the same time, I note that the National Assembly is at its 9th extraordinary session. 4. 2009 had a request for a legislative referendum as such on its agenda. So, I have to say that at the same assembly under the same constitution and under the same business terms, the same Members, if you want, we make a different decision. I take it that you gave me 5 minutes as a proposaler today and you gave me 30 minutes on behalf of the applicants to put me in a position to play a clown behind this stage. First, I'd like to defend the position that we're going to the Constitutional Court, and five minutes after that, there's something else. I don't think we're hidden in Kekov. Therefore, I simply note that the National Assembly acts relatively as the coalition majority wishes, and I cannot find another at this point. Of course, you can't expect me to, because I wasn't a candidate at the time, either, but Mr Saiovic was a candidate in April. In short, we do what we want, which corresponds to the majority of the National Assembly, and the public must know that we do what we want to do as "hand made" or in our own way, do what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I must say that it is always advisable for committee presidents to be able to distinguish at least conceptually from their position as chairman of the Committee from that of a positionary or opposition Member. In this position, you have taken the Chair of the Committee, and I must once again refuse to do so at home, working exactly on the Rules of Procedure and under the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, and I will not allow this to be debated. I'm not giving you procedural debates. Mr Grimes, you don't get the debate, you don't get the vote. Tina Tržan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u38	I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u39	The State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a position on the Proposal for a Decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether the postponement of the novels or their refusal to refer to the referendum could have counter-constitutional consequences. It considers that the situation of non-conformity with the Constitution would continue and fully agree with all the arguments set out in the explanation for the proposal for a decision. Following a preliminary coordination with the representatives of the judicial officials, the Government proposed the amendments adopted by the National Assembly, which resolved the unconstitutional situation after three years, so it was necessary to adopt the novels. The Constitutional Court ordered the abolition of the unconstitutional situation for the second time. Finally, by decision of December 2008, within a period of 6 months, this deadline expired on 1 July 2009. The Government considers that the two novels are adequately and in accordance with both decisions of the Constitutional Court and regulate in a balanced manner the situation of the judges whose position is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It should also be noted that in drafting the text, the Government fully respected the agreement concluded with representatives of judicial officials after five months of coordination. However, it is clear from the agreement reached that the representatives of the judicial officials agreed that, due to the public financial and economic crisis, the provisions of the amendments on financial terms will be definitively implemented on 1 December 2010 and the increase in the salaries of judges in times of crisis will not - and so will their consent. Finally, we consider that the applicants' claims for the referendum are entirely unfounded. With the same arguments, the former government and former Minister of Public Administration, Gregor Virant, unjustifiably justified the position of judges for three years and thus caused the anti-constitutional situation twice. If the current government and the current Minister of Public Administration followed the same argument, the position of judges would also be today, and thus, for the third time, inconsistent with the Constitution. That respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court is a prerequisite for the functioning of the rule of law, the Councils of the State Council have also agreed with the Government and the coalition Members, which have not voted on both laws to be the subject of the legislative referendum. The Government therefore proposes that the request for an assessment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the constitutional assessment. The courts are certainly the foundation of a normal state administration and that we systematically undermine their reputation, which is also intended for a meeting such as today, certainly is not right. It is true, however, that in this country we all want judges to work effectively, by law and within reasonable time limits at a reasonable price, but not that, of course, once judges strike for unresolved status, but secondly, they are forced to fight their right in court by suing the country. The consequences of the system that this government has inherited have been found and are not good in court. The National Assembly is at the 9th ordinary session of 22. 9. adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, by which the legislator implemented the decision of the Constitutional Court, which established the following significant discrepancies with our Constitution, namely, Article 5, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, relating to Judges, and Article 10, paragraph 2, of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, as far as judges are concerned, and Article 44, paragraph 4, of the Law on Judicial Service. With the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, all these non-constitutionalities are abolished, as new payment classes are being introduced and the principle of the protection of judicial salary as a whole is constitutionally respected. At the same time, a mechanism for the coordination of court salaries is established in accordance with that decision of the Constitutional Court. With all the solutions introduced by the novels, the said unconstitutionalities, most importantly, are eliminated. And it was precisely this abolition of these contradictions that was the main reason for the adoption of both laws. The possible rejection of those laws, as well as the postponement of their application, also encourages the anti-constitutional situation, as the Constitutional Court has undoubtedly found. For this reason, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the decision that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 21(1), in relation to Article 22 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, should require the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on this. The public must also be told that Slovenia and Slovenia deserve an effective legal system and that this alignment, which we have achieved with the correction of the unconstitutional situation, is only one of the stories that leads to a final, necessary solution and to an increase in the effectiveness of the judiciary. I must remind you that a court law has already been introduced in preparation, which will further increase the effectiveness of the judiciary. This law introduces a more managerial approach, strengthens the responsibility of the President of the Court, introduces systems that will make it possible to judge more quickly and more qualitatively in practice, and will also produce an annual work plan for the Court. For all of this we will decide to support the decision proposed at the end of the vote at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal to assess whether a decision at the referendum on the Public Sector Wage System and on the Judicial Service Act would have a simplified and better knowledge of judicial salaries, with a view to suspending or rejecting the enforcement of both laws would have an anti-constitutional effect. The debate on this item on the agenda is irrelevant. In any event, we must decide whether the decision, the call for a referendum, or the decision that the referendum is not to be signed temporarily and that the Constitutional Court decides in advance within 30 days. Therefore, I believe that everything we have done since 11 now means more speculation than a substantive debate. There will be no doubt - why the request for a referendum in our opinion is justified. Surely the request for a referendum is formally correct and we do not challenge it. However, not to be doubted, justified, and not only formal, but in our view also substantively, it is also a requirement for a Constitutional Court to be judged or a referendum to be actually signed. Why? First of all, because for the two laws that the National Assembly had to adopt to eliminate the unconstitutional content of the current regime, as the Constitutional Court has indisputably stated. We had a marriage that we had before 22. 9. they must apply and to this law the Constitutional Court said in December 2007 that it is contrary to the Constitution in certain provisions. Secondly, since the unconstitutionality of the solution in force has lasted since the end of June and the invitation to tender for a referendum would necessarily extend this anti-constitutionality until at least November, that is for two additional months. Thirdly, since the possible rejection of laws in the referendum would result in a new anti-constitutional situation, the law adopted by the National Assembly at the end of September 22 September could not enter into force. Or whether and when the National Assembly could adopt a solution that was in line with the Constitutional Court's decision cannot be predicted. Before it could be adopted, coordination with justice would be needed, a proposal would be needed, a decision in the National Assembly, a veto, perhaps a State Assembly and a re-negotiation of the referendum. So to say that this is just a postponement for a month or two is simply not true. It may also be a delay of six months or a year. Since there is no doubt that the solutions to the laws adopted prior to the amendment of the laws of 22 September were in contradiction with the Constitution. There is no doubt, therefore, that they need to be amended and the opposition knows this and takes into account the Constitutional Court's decision requires referendums which are justified by an argument which is not entirely correct. It is unilateral and refers solely and solely to the question of judicial salaries, and it is not yet objectively and truly. The Constitutional Court found, as essential, that justice, as an indisputable third legislative and executive power, is an equal and equally important branch of authority, one which must also exercise equality and independence through legislation. At least four points which are indisputably established by this decision of the Constitutional Court. The amount of the salaries of judges, including prosecutors and lawyers, must be comparable to the salaries of officials in the other two branches of the Authority, which is not ensured in the view of the Constitutional Court if the minimum salary is classified in the 40th salary class as defined so far and therefore this ratio should be changed in favour of judges by raising the minimum wage class. The opposition submits that the Constitutional Court does not determine the height to be determined. It's true, it's not determined, but it states that it must be undeniably higher than the 40th grade than it has been so far. Our practice, as well as the warnings of the opposition and the wish of the coalition, is that the height is determined preferably in agreement with the affected, this time with the judiciary workers, and this was also done at the 47th pay grade. Second. The Constitutional Court states that the law must ensure the protection of wages and that the new pay system must not interfere with the absolute reduction of the salary of any judicial officer, but take into account not only the basis, but all the elements of the salary in full. If we do not implement the new wage system, but only partially implement it, this principle will not be respected. Third. The Constitutional Court states that the salaries in the judiciary in work relating to the effectiveness of the performance of the judicial function may, however, be possible, but must always be objective in order to assess them in advance, and irrefutablely from the executive branch, the conditions are independent so that the performance evaluation system does not ensure the impact that the executive or legislative authority would have on the judiciary, and in particular on the independence and independence of the performance of the judicial function. And like a fourth. That the salaries of the judiciary are linked to the system of their adaptation to the other two branches of government. This adjustment must be the same for all three branches and it cannot be allowed for the legislative or executive branch of the authorities to change this relationship by special decisions, as this would constitute a constant uncertainty for the independence and equal evaluation of the judiciary. The debate on the request for a referendum is therefore not linked to the State Assembly's discretion. When we passed the law on 22 September, we were bound by some of the criteria and frameworks expressly set for us by the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court says that these frameworks are subject to the repeated legislators, not only the National Assembly, but also citizens and citizens, when they decide on the content of the law at the referendum. This should also be borne in mind, and this is an additional reason why our request to have the Constitutional Court judge before the referendum on the content of the proposed referendum and its suitability from the point of view of the Constitution. So much for justifying our request for constitutional review, mainly in a constitutional and legal context. However, there are no more important arguments of a material nature, so I would like to say a few sentences about them. Therefore, the emphasis is on harmonising the system of salaries in the judiciary, and in particular on the adoption of two laws, this is the Wage Regulation Act and the Law on Courts, only on pay issues, is unfounded and not true. We agree with the court's salaries, there is no way to resolve all the issues. Above all, it is incorrect to warn us that we are accepting salaries in the judiciary at a time when there is a major economic crisis and when many businesses face extreme difficulties, including the inability to pay their salaries. This is a big problem. This is a problem that the ruling coalition is aware of. I am trying to save him, not always and in full the most successful, but without a doubt, by also taking the measures we have taken, allowing for a wide range of jobs to be maintained or increased. The Minister of Labour estimates a total of at least 20,000. And these are the measures we are taking, but it cannot be said that we must not take them in the field of justice until we have resolved everything in the field of the economy. It is claimed that, by the regulation adopted on 22 September 2009, the salaries of the courts will increase nominally as soon as they are adopted. It's a pure lie. Only 1 will make changes in the work. 12th, but not this year, but next year. As the law enters into force, a variable court salary, which totals around 3% of the salaries of the court, is abolished, and this account results in a reduction. It is also paid by 4% in the judiciary, as this salary has been reduced for us, all other officials in the state authorities, to make at least a partial contribution to the resolution of the crisis. For one wage class, there will be an increase in basic salaries for approximately 800 judges, but in order not to be reduced because the reduction would be contrary to the decision taken by the Constitutional Court. And it is a very one-sided claim that by applying the changes to the lowest value of the salary class, which applies only to district judges, it will increase wages by 7 classes or 28%. This will apply exceptionally only to some, and according to the information that we have and can argue with justice, only to a smaller group, because there is almost no judge in the current pay system who would have less than 42nd pay grade. Therefore, the expectations that the faster elimination of salary arrears will be increased by the amendment of the law are not our claim. Never, however, have I participated in all the discussions, but I have not heard that the judiciary, the Ministry of Public Administration or the Ministry of Public Administration would argue that the amendment of the Wages and Courts Act would ensure the abolition of judicial arrears. We realize that's not the case. We are aware that the regulation of liability in the judiciary is not appropriate and that it is necessary to amend the Law on Courts in this direction. That is why we do not claim to be more effective by regulating these two laws. We need to ensure this on a different basis. In recent discussions, there have also been warnings and opinions that they have been paid to judges, including in the Constitutional Courts, huge salaries and specific amounts. I think it's right that this has brought the public together to say that in the debate on the working body, it has also found out why. This was enabled in the previous system, which provided the possibility of variable work and effect. This was also possible for constitutional judges because the law enabled them to increase 20% of their salary due to greater efficiency and solved cases, and this could simply be achieved in the new pay system after 22 September, if it remained the same as it is, it will no longer be possible to apply. Let me finish with one more warning. I think it is worth deciding on a preliminary examination in the Constitutional Court, after all because of the costs of the referendum. I never do, because people's decision on important issues is worth more than a few million euros. However, if there is any doubt that the decision would be contrary to the Constitution, then probably 4 million, as far as approx. the cost of carrying out the referendum is not a prudent investment because it would not have produced any results. This is also an argument that it would be right to support the coalition's proposal to ask the Constitutional Court, before deciding on the referendum, to assess whether the adoption of a decision at the referendum, that is to say by deferring the law or by amending it, could be assumed that there would be unconstitutional consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. So, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that something will not be wrong again, that is, the Constitutional Court on Judicial Salaries, etc., is the proposal for a decision in the introduction, and this is the conclusion that we will not support the Constitutional Court, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The main reason is that we have not forgotten that the Constitution, which states that the people have power, is still in force in this country. If the coalition thinks otherwise, of course we have no influence, but we have not forgotten that. Let me say at the start that the previous government, even in the time of the previous government, we were trying to track a situation in which at least the judges of the beginning would be compared to the doctors of the specialist, I mean those who open up your heart and replace it or something that would be at least partially comparable to university teachers, that is, those who, in saying, have been "ordered" and, in fact, it has been for years and years, so the situation has been years and years. During the previous term of office, however, the judges took a step further or, in their own words, announced the strike, started blackmailing them to get higher wages. In the last decision of the Constitutional Court, there is nowhere to be said and to repeat twice that it will be over, because there are apparently repeated indiscretions and inaccuracies that the coalition is implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. Your Honor, this is not true. The Constitutional Court has never, ever, ever ordered you to raise your wages to the judges of the 47th grade. I'm asking why it's not 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, maybe 49, 50. 51st grade, because we finally know where the MPs are? How do you know exactly how do you know that you've hit the goal that the 47th pay grade is real? Are there any indications in the anonymity that Mr. Jelinčič and I received that you agreed to do so? Now I seriously doubt that you have agreed to do so with the Constitutional Court, even though the Constitutional Court denied it on Friday. So, where does the 47th grade come from? Why not 42, 43 and so on and so forth. Is that a deal? I don't know, so obviously we can agree on a coalition if that's true, including with the Constitutional Judges. But I believe communication is good, because it's not the last place your former political presidents are sitting. One more word on the Constitutional Court's decision. See, the Constitutional Court has been released twice in its previous term or in this mandate, already in December, to assess the conformity of the salary position of judges with the Constitution. It never said how much it would be. But it's decided twice that it's not enough. Well, he can decide now that 47 is too small, I don't know. So that's what you can decide. But reality is something. Given the real constitutional fact and respect for the rule of law of this country, it must be said that the decision of the Constitutional Court is respected. Absolutely. But we can say it's controversial. We can also say that such a decision is controversial. In fact, such a decision has been taken under the principle of 'Kadia sued, kadija sued', or whoever is also the defendant, or whatever. So the system of justice as an independent branch of power is closed. From the lowest judge to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court used this institute to apply its constitutional legal position and decided as it had decided. Nobody's in that position. Someone will answer me and say, yes, the Members have it if you set your own wages. However, it must be said that I do not know almost any Member in this or previous reference, who, on a proposal from anyone, the Government or anyone else, would vote against the need to lower the Member's salary or limit the Member's salary or anything. Why don't we do it? Because we know that there is a people above us and that in four years we will receive a lesson - leaving Parliament. So we all vote for it. But why don't the Constitutional Judges say, "I'm sorry, but we wouldn't make that decision because we decide about ourselves." I see a very important problem in this. Whose result, then, is this decision from the 41st to the 47th grade, which was adopted by law? That's the result of, I don't know, deals, talks, agreements. Ministers, the secretary of state and someone else, were talking about the terrible problems, the minister was talking about the sour apple that this successful government had to eat at the expense of the former failed government. No, ladies and gentlemen, I already told you on the board, you ate a fruit bowl of cream! And the judges were on that fruit bowl. The sour apple on your menu comes: Gorenje, Mura, the hornet glassworks, this is coming. I wish you good appetite! Look, earlier it was said, 1. 7 - 1. 12. - and this number exercise. Of course! We too can read the law: 1. 7. that's it, so back to back, 1. In the 12th year of 1012, the rest. But it's legal, 47th pay grade for beginners, that's 28%. That's legal. Who told anyone in Mura that it would be 1. 12th year better? Nobody. Nobody told them it was gonna be 1. 12th of 2010 better. Maybe it'll get worse. So the judges' salaries go up 28%, let's leave that in two parts. That's irrelevant. But that's the kind of law that's passed. Look, Vlada, I have to say again, the government is extremely misleading and misleading at the time that we adopted this law. In her presentation, she wrote that in Slovenia, the Supreme Judge has three thousand and a few euros to pay and the Members have five thousand. Where the hell did that come from? A few days ago, or today, when I was looking at the payroll, it was 4,600 gross. That's what it said to you. It means that this will pay 5,000 euros to the extent possible for the leadership of the National Assembly, the leaders of the largest groups of Members. Let us add that the Government is deceiving, because it also shows in the international public that the supreme judge has 3,600 euros in wages for us. That's not true. Of course, it is also necessary to say what has been heard on the Committee that the majority of the Presidents of the Courts have 7, 8 and over a thousand euros grossly paid. President of the National Assembly, State and Government - 6,400, 6,500. It was well said that this would be abolished. Of course, they will, because then the backlogs will rise and they will come back to the National Assembly, that some law needs to be changed, say, about the Constitutional Court, or something else. But "de facto" is the fact that they have such salaries and they strike with these salaries, they strike and they want to have more on these salaries. It's a real fact. Let's see who the judge is, actually. Can we compare him to an MP? Can we compare him to a minister, a secretary of state? So these are comparisons, because they are officials. Yeah, it's got to be the same salary. That's what they're asking, so you, so the coalition is nodding. That's the kind of marriage you've adopted. What about everyone else? Oh, no! Oh, no! A permanent term, from the age of 30, the first day of service, to retirement. I reject those who speak to me and talk about "we test them for three years, we test them for three years, we monitor them for three years" and I don't know what they're all about. But when I ask, tell me one who lost his job, and there's no answer. You can't have it because the system is ineffective. Because the next day, when a mistake was found, they went to the lawyers. But when we wanted to change the law and say they wouldn't go to lawyers, you said, "no, we protect their right to free choice of work." I guess. Sorry, so there's no comparison. The judge is not responsible for his decisions, he is not responsible for his mistakes, the taxpayers pay for it. The trial in unreasonable lengths, due to lack of work or poor organisation of work - the bill to taxpayers. You could have seen the Uhernik case on TV yesterday. And what did the former investigative judge say to the journalist's question, "Will you apologize after an innocent convicted man who spent eight years in prison?" "Absolutely not," said Sir. Absolutely not! Have you seen this ignorance? This is due to imprisonment in their circles, they live in another world, they don't live among people. The messenger goes before the people every four years. The Minister will come to the National Assembly whenever the coalition wants him to be resolved, and so will the President of the Government. The President of the country goes to the polls and gets replaced. He's got two seats. He's out. Judge to death! Who's fixing the wages? Is that true with the law now? Yeah, it's obvious. Look at what happened in May, June, or when we lowered our own salaries for one wage class! A letter from the Court of Justice came to the Committee and the National Assembly, "No, we don't agree, raise our wages first, and then you can lower us by one pay grade." Have you seen this plausibility? Self-confidence, self-esteem, incarceration, grief? An inefficient judicial system, I'll say a few words below. The judicial system as a subsystem in this country is not effective and is one of the least effective. However, there is no reason for this discussion by any opposition Member, since I have been absent from the National Assembly for 15 years, at least not from me. Does this judicial system not violate human rights? Yes, he breaks them, they belong in unreasonablely long hands! Does this system not cause great economic damage? Oh, my God! For failure to decide or for untimely decision-making. Economic damage, too. It's a self-sufficient, grieving system that acts poorly and the coalition rewards it. So it'll be better tomorrow. Why would he be? I don't understand. Finally, it must also be said that the ratios regarding the number of judges, as we have noted since 2003 onwards, are enormous in Slovenia the number of judges towards Germany. Some numbers show 1:10 or something less, but not significantly less, with the biggest backlogs, and they are said not to be in Germany. Is there anything wrong with this? Yeah, there's something wrong here, not in Germany. There will be no financial implications. We keep hearing that story. But of course they will! The system, which has been in force and is still in force, is clear and clear before this law is passed, and the former government has allocated enormous financial resources to them for a period of time until they have resolved the judicial backlogs. And these funds are being channelled into the base that they will also have in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2020 and to death or what I know how. The former government did not see this coming, but it did until the judicial backlog was over. That's one. Second of all, the second year is going to be 100 judges less. And it is said that this will not require EUR 5.8 million, as stated in government documents. We will see this for the first time on the budget you will bring in in the coming days. A few more words about comparisons. No one will convince me that a specialist doctor who operates on your heart and saves your life, or any doctor who has saved anyone's life in this world with difficult operations must be subordinated; according to the Ministry and Coalition, he must have less than a novice judge. The university professor, who is a few of us in the National Assembly, says they have to have less. The university professor is 42. - 46th grade, I'm talking about a professor and an extraordinary professor and a novice judge in 47th grade. That's a nice comparison. And the minister says that doctors, judges and university teachers will never be compared again. But the judges are the authorities, and they are the public servants. How's that? Just the legal provision that judges are branches of power, but teachers and doctors are not, does not mean that they cannot be compared. That's not true. And it's safe to hear from them, and it's certain they'll knock on the door. And they'll be right, I'll support them in person, and then they deserve it. We have already heard it today, and I don't know how many times already, because the judges will now be independent, because we've also guaranteed them this salary independence, and now they're going to be working like clockwork. Now it's going to be! No, it won't! The current system was very clear: the one who worked more, he got more, the one who went "to the checker" from 8 to 15 got the basic salary. You'll both get the same tomorrow. Yeah, for God's sake, why would he do that? Home, this afternoon, in the neighboring courts. No, he won't work anymore, he'll go home at 3:00. So this is an anti-guarantee to some better work. During the previous term of office, judges received some allowances, specialization, Master's degree, doctorate and so on because they said public servants had it. In fact, when it comes to salaries, they are compared to public servants, but when it comes to something else, they are not. In addition, they are compared with public servants, with salaries - but now we are the authorities, and now we want to have the same as the other officials. Overturned! In the previous term, they received an allowance for Master's degree, specialization and doctorate. That's what they demanded, if that's what civil servants have. No, but now they've given it up and we're going to put it in the basic salary, so we're going to come back tomorrow, and we're going to say, "yes, but if the public servants have an allowance for a Master's degree, a specialization and a doctorate, yes, and then we have to have judges, because then we're unconstitutionally placed," if the public servants had it, then the judges don't. Yeah, they're coming tomorrow and they're gonna say that! They said something today, too. Extras for night work, Sunday work and so on, "no, that's what we have to have." I will not give an MP in case, because we are working a little bit more at night, but we are also working, and the ministers are certainly working, and the secretaries of state have no extras many times at night - and the judges have no extras. Because what's beautiful in the pay system is taken from there, from the service basket, from what's beautiful in the functional system, and we're going to take out here to make things better. Not to mention the increased workload. So the current system is such that it stimulates the good and gives the basic salary to those who go to "shiht" and work only from 7 to 14 or 8 to 15. But the system that was adopted and sent to the referendum that we wanted to send to the referendum is the one that will punish the good and reward the rich - 28% of those who go to work from 8 to 15 and work at that time. Look, it's very unfair, actually, that in the time we're living, I'm not going to tell you again, Steklarska new, Mura and Gorenje, we're going to let this go. There are other companies coming. This is also the time in which we said to the pensioners: "No, your pensions will only be adjusted by half in 2009, 2010." Of course, it was then shown in public: "We were able to achieve half the pension increase!" - No way! Pensions will be partially frozen - this is the proposal. The salaries of public servants will be completely frozen. In a system like this we in the National Assembly, preferably a coalition majority, say plus 28% to the judges of the beginners, the others slightly less. The State Council really democratically decided on these vetoes, and as you know, it was 15:15. Don't think there was any terrible support. Disruption of the reputation of the judiciary. Yeah. I'm going to hear this a lot more today and I'm going to have to use the time of the proposer to say that it's not true. It's only up to the court to break its reputation! For one thing, by doing what they do! Let me remind you again of the perverted act that took place between July 1st and July 10th, when they took advantage of the minister and said, "2 million 500 000 euros in bankruptcy awards", which the minister called a suspicion of corruption. Not me - then I marked, then the minister first. The minister first asked the Kosovo Commission to verify that corruption was not suspected. So he suspects that's what this is all about. But that's what some judges did. Let me remind you that we are in this Chamber and for the last time on the committee, and I don't know where else, the left-wing Members, the right-wing options, whatever they're calling, and in particular on the left-hand side, we've heard that they're calling the judges, "Don't press charges. You can't do that." The minister publicly called, "Don't press charges!" However, it is a matter of lawsuits, so that they will know more precisely, 10 and more years ago, when the Members of this National Assembly reduced their salaries and it was then interpreted under those laws that it also applies to judges because they are officials. And after 10 years, when another government came, it was Janša’s government, and they said: “Look! Let's press charges! And the lawsuits began to be filed. Following the calls made by the minister and duly called on him not to do so because they are destroying their reputation, new and new lawsuits are coming. They don't respect or call the minister. So that's the supposition. I will then borrow the names of two Members. Mr Jelinčič will be the first, and Mr Zorn will be the second to see how this is going to happen. Look what happens now. I'll borrow myself. And I'll hypothetically put the three of us in these roles. For example, Judge Gorenak is pressing charges against the state and is demanding EUR 50.0000 in return. The record comes to the table of Judge Jelinčič, who is very independent in his judgment, of course he is a member of the legislative branch of power, the judicial branch of authority, which is completely autonomous and completely independent in its decision. The decision of Judge Jelinčič is clear. If he decides that I don't get it, it'll be a so-called judicature that will apply to everyone. However, if he decides that I own 50,000 euros, he will also get 50,000 euros because he is also suing the country. Of course, the country has a defence in the image of Mr Zorn, the lawyer, who represents the interests of the state and I imagine him sweating, sweating, representing the interests of the state in a proper, independent and professional manner, while at the same time knowing that if I get 50,000 Euros, he will too. This is therefore an independent cycle of judicial action. And that's the reality. But look, this reality can also be compared to a farce. It's a farce! But that's the way it is in the constitution, that's the way it is in the laws, and we have to respect that. I specifically emphasize that no one will say. But the constitution and the laws could be different. Members' salaries could also be arranged differently. Well, we could all have a different system. Of course, now we can say what will happen in the Constitutional Court? I have no idea! We will comment on the Constitutional Court, which is independent, as we know, by constitution and law, in a month's time. But for now, I don't know what's gonna happen. I don't think it's open. But, of course, I see the possibility and the opportunity of the Constitutional Court to just limit itself, to read the part that the people have under the Constitution, maybe even something is correcting back, but we will see it, we cannot prejudge it. Allow me, however, a monologue on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[The ad in the hall.]] Can you listen to me, please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Peace in the hall! Please listen carefully and collectively to the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Look, I'm going to ask myself, what does it mean to be humiliated and disappointed in this country? It's a people. There's nothing left for them. The laws, decisions of the Constitutional Court, final judgments must be respected. I've never, we've never troubled it. These are enforceable matters. We have laws like that, and we have a constitution like that. But is the Constitution something final, something from God given, something that can never be changed in life? I don't know. No, it's not, I'm sure it isn't. We had a constitution in the former country, and we had laws. In that constitution, it said there was a political party. Those laws stated that anyone speaking against this party would be put in prison by independent courts. Yeah, they did! They were independent because they were right, I'm not gonna say anything, but it was written in the constitution and the laws. We don't have anything. So it was constitutional and legal? Yes, it was constitutional and legal. Was that the constitution, and those laws were permanent? No, we changed them in 1991 and then. Who changed them? They were changed in this hall, with a different image, by the parliamentary constitutional majority. And that's why we're actually lucky or whether I, you and those who are watching us say this, what I'm saying. If that hadn't happened in 1991, I wouldn't have been here, you wouldn't have heard it, and people wouldn't have heard it. So what can disappointment and humiliation do? Should they go to the street? No! No! Again, the answer is no! The Constitution and the laws must be respected, everything else would be the law of the street. Humanity has power. But the people decide every four years. We decide Members several times a month, and every four years we go before people. So how do we proceed? What, then, can a humiliated people do if you want? Only a constitutional majority in this Chamber, six Members, can change constitutional laws, and no one else, by constitutional law, can change constitutional laws, i.e. by constitutional means. So this remains for the people. And most of them are not yet in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is given by Vito Rožej on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, in the Group of Members, we must admit that unfortunately, we are not surprised at the manoeuvre of the opposition's work. It is clear that the uncritical application or abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of our legislation is continuing. Continues with the power argument, not with the power of arguments. Because the latter are certainly on the side of Members and Members, who have been endorsed by both draft laws, for which referendum review is proposed and which have been referred in the parliamentary procedure in the first place because of the unconstitutionality which was caused three years ago by the same political option, which today calls for a referendum on laws that abolish this unconstitutionality, puts the rule of law above the rule of law! And that's just self-inflicted. That's just complacency! For the functioning of the rule of law, the question is whether someone can by his decision prevent the adoption and implementation of the law resulting from the decision of the Constitutional Court - is very important. The condition for the functioning of the rule of law is just respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which has twice decided that the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System and the Law on Judicial Service were incompatible with the Constitution. And the former government knew that, and for three years, it claimed that judges, i.e. the third branch of government, were not officials, but were public servants. In the debates, we could hear the "branch" as if they were merchants, shopkeepers. It has been made clear, not once, twice, that judges are in short the third branch of power, officials. And that's how this anti-constitutional situation was caused twice. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, the candidates for the referendum, the status of judges as officials, let us once again say, lays down the Slovenian Constitution. It states, of course, that it is a legal and social state, and also writes what you are referring to in your own request for a referendum to have power over the people. Unfortunately, under this provision of our Constitution, your literacy ceases. The Constitution also states, of course, that citizens and citizens exercise this authority directly and through elections based on the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial power. And you didn't read that, obviously. These constitutional provisions are also why the Constitutional Court has decided that the former authorities have prepared and adopted unconstitutional legal provisions. The latest government proposals and amendments to the laws that the applicants wish to offer to the people for approval or refusal were prepared in the light of the Constitutional Court's decisions. Of course, the government and the judiciary have not forgotten the financial situation in the country resulting from the financial and economic crisis, as the wages for judicial officials continue to remain unchanged for more than a year. And if you were really worried about the public cash register that would guide you in the presentation of the referendum, it would probably apply at the beginning of the space at your own doorstep. 14 former Slovenian Democratic Party officials still cost taxpayers more than 700,000 euros a year. Among them is Dr. Undoubtedly or at least an alleged high moral principle, which has just blamed this resulting unconstitutionality. That's not what you're worried about. That's not the problem. This is the duality we're talking about today. There are also strange arguments about the inadmissibility of harmonising the salaries of the judiciary with the other officials now, in times of bankruptcy and labour unrest; and this is what those Members who exist are talking about - I am sorry that Mr Gorenak does not hear this now - those Members who exist and who have voted at the beginning of this crisis against the Members lowering wages, so they have voted and have also signed under this request that we are discussing today. If it's not a double personality, then what is it? Of course, it is also true that we could otherwise apply the provisions of the Constitutional Court, which has not written anywhere exactly how nominal the salaries of that judge, the prosecutor or the lawyer must be. However, it says that you are not comparable to that of the other officials. For three years, the parliamentary majority existed, in the Slovenian Democratic Party with coalition partners, then the parliamentary salaries could be reduced so that they could be comparable to those of the judges of that time. And that's not what happened. And today, among the co-signatures of this proposal for a referendum is also a party, which I have already said once that she has voted, and not once, against the fact that parliamentary salaries have been reduced. And even today, there have been whispers that this should not have happened. Great, just so we know what principle we're talking about! The comparisons that we always have to look at the salary of a specialist doctor, the salary of a rookie judge, do not stand a proper comparison, because we all need to learn what it means to be an official or to be an employee. Although the doctor seems to us that it is possible to make decisions about life and death, in fact, he only decides about life. He's bound by his code to save lives. The judge, on the other hand, I speak in parables because we, thank God, do not have a death sentence, a decision on life or death, freedom or punishment, a prison. Here their powers are different. I don't have the greatest education myself, but I probably have a higher salary than a lot of doctors of science because my responsibility in this function, which I have, is greater and more what it is and what it was determined in previous references to the National Assembly. Thus, as regards these arguments for the invitation to tender for the referendum. The aim of the adopted novels, which we are talking about again today, is to align the salaries of the judges with those of the other branches of government, which, in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, must reflect the constitutional equivalence of all three branches of government in regulating the material position of the institutions of the individual branches of government. This procedure for the coordination of court salaries must be laid down by law and the representatives of the judiciary should be given the opportunity to participate in the adoption of the regulation. The amendments made by these two laws are not in fact the same as those proposed by the referendum. It is not true that any judge's salary will rise by 28%. It is not true that any judge's salary will rise by 7 pay grade, nor is it true that she will rise by 6. Tell me one judge who'll get paid by 28%! One judge who's gonna get paid by 7 or 6 pay grade! It is not because there are no judges in the 40th and 41st pay grade today in Slovenia. So it's not any argument that's been cited here, but it's a simple demagogy. And if anyone is really disturbed by these judicial salaries, which are higher than, for example, the pay of the President of Parliament, it should be made clear that this is due in particular to the additions from the Lukend programme. These are the facts. Not even among the judges of the beginnings, to be clear, are there any who would have been in the 40th or 41st classes, although it is true that a large number of new judges have been appointed in the past four years. Go see how many calls were made at the time, how many were named, how many new judges were appointed in this government's mandate, and how the justice ministry actually stopped the new calls, because the pressure on wages is too great. And we can also agree that the productivity of the present judges is too small. But if there is doubt as to how to regulate laws that will ensure greater efficiency of judges, if the problem exists, if there are doubts about the necessity of a permanent mandate, of course this can all be discussed on the Constitutional Commission, in a serious way, is reasoned, but not in such a populist way, a demagogue, which is immediately through the referendum. How, though, can people come to know all these things? Go ask the fathers of the Slovenian Constitution how long it took them to decide what provision of the Slovenian Constitution. Now let the people at one referendum be smart and decide. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the content of the law regulates the position of judges as officials properly and in a balanced manner, so we have also supported these laws. We have also supported them because, after months of coordination, the Government has succeeded with the representatives of the judicial officials due to the public financial and economic crisis in finding a compromise and, therefore, the provisions of the amendment will not be definitively implemented in the financial sense until 1 December 2010. And this misleading referendum on some huge increase in judges' salaries is possible to call someone who is really aware of their responsibilities for the situation and wants to put it on the shoulders of citizens who have completely different concerns in these times and, I think, a lot of other work and decision-making on things that their lives are doing even more than the position of the third branch of power. Already in the presentation of our Group's position at the time of the adoption of both of today's renegotiations of laws, colleague Slapnik pointed out that the former government or its representatives had misbehaviored the former government or its representatives, who had rejected these constitutional rights in the judiciary in the past term. And what did they do about it? This has also resulted in what has already been discussed here today, in short, the mass filing of complaints against the country to which the applicants today refer; in short, something they have blamed themselves on. I don't know if the applicants imagine how deeply ethical and moral they are or have we failed, because this systematic destruction of the judiciary with distorted ideas about the work of judges leads to the fall of the rule of law and I don't know who is willing to take such a responsibility. Also, this planned incitement to intolerance between the various groups in the public sector between public officials and officials is a populism way of destabilizing, at least after the destabilisation of this country, because of the fact that it is, of course, particularly irresponsible at the time of this economic crisis. While we have also talked about the awards of bankruptcy managers, it must be said that this is an anomaly and I would also agree with the opinion expressed here by the Minister of Justice, but it must also be said that you can, for example, read the information that the higher court has rejected more than 150 000 Euros of high reward to one bankruptcy manager. We can hope that there will be as many of these things as possible, there will always be no way to prevent all anomalies. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Justice is already preparing new legislative changes that will affect the greater efficiency of the judiciary. We also agree with the party that the organised appearance of judicial officers against the State is questionable in these times. It is about people who, with the highest degree of integrity of moral and ethical values, should create a circle of trust and offer their work to people and provide them with a fair, fair and legal trial within a reasonable time. We are also convinced that by adopting, by law in some way, we have given judges and other judicial officials a basis for a more rational and, above all, more effective implementation of the judicial service. As has already been said, we hope that the new amendments prepared by the Ministry of Justice will also ensure more efficient work by the judges, and this is truly effective, not only for the swifter and less deliberate conclusion of judgments, from which half of them are returned to the Court for re-trial, which the system has done so far - that we are in a clear position. The current system of awarding judges has stimulated as many judgments as possible. Whether they kept you in a higher court or not, it's a different story. With this, the judges were doing their own work, and they were also doing a great job raising themselves, drawing the funds from the Lukende programme, and in the reports, everything could have looked fine, but it didn't work out, but I hope we can all agree, but it wasn't some really effective sharing of justice, with the legal authorities, not just written judgments. And so there may have been cases mentioned here when the judgments were wrong and no one will apologize for them if they were done too quickly, if they were done too superficially, of course these things could happen. Therefore, the economic damage mentioned here can also be done. It is necessary, however, to look again at where the real reason lies for the fact that the judiciary is so - in the judiciary itself or in the legislation that allowed these anomalies to occur. As far as we are concerned, the legislative branch of government is what we can do, we can make such legislation and adopt such legislation that will not allow or limit these anomalies to the fullest extent possible. In view of all of this, the proposal for a decision that we have put into the procedure of the coalition parliamentary groups so that, in short, by suspending the implementation of the laws or possible rejection of the two laws adopted by the National Assembly at its last regular meeting, the required legislative referendums may give rise to unconstitutional consequences and a situation that is not in accordance with the Constitution - I am talking about Articles 2, 23 and 125 - need to be confirmed. I also call on the proposers to call for a referendum to support the proposed decision, and this may also be convinced by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. For there is no fear that all of them will examine their right and thus ensure the functioning of the rule of law. In the Group of Members, we will certainly support the proposed decision because we are convinced that the proposal for a referendum does not follow the constitutional principles on Slovenia as a legal country, where the opinion of the Constitutional Court should apply much more than an anonymous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Rožej said that the proposal for a decision had been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. You must have hanged the working body after negligence and imposed on the president of the working body that he also defended the decision in the National Assembly. It would be wise for those who propose such conclusions to stand behind these conclusions, not to go with a foreign hand into the nets. That's one thing. The other thing is that, Mr President, in my opinion, I think we should point out that in the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members, we do not have to argue with other groups of Members - this can be done in the debate. And the third thing. I would like to point out, Mr President, that, between 23 October 2004 and 24 October 2005, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who received EUR 54.962.34 and EUR 603, was also replaced by ministers of the former government. So this lady who proposes this is also among those recipients of this compensation. And it would be good if the Members were before anyone else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Mr Tanko, this has nothing to do with the procedural proposal. You'll have time to discuss and you'll be able to argue with anyone in this room. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u54	What's [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u55	But not now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u56	There are arguments, if we use arguments to tell one person what they used on the basis of the law, it is right to quote others. And let's say, Madam Minister, who is the proposer of this measure, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u57	You'll be able to quote that after you've come to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Just an explanation, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u59	No, you can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u60	The rose. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u61	It's not! [[...]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u62	that he'll know [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Procedural proposal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u64	that they are also among you, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u65	is not intended for clarification between Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u66	But he is not the only lady, because he can still list them: Richard Bauerman, Butolen, Kokuř, Partič and so on. And also in this mandate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u67	If, then, this is now the last warning, Mr Tanko, before I take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u68	There is quite a thing between your Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u69	First, it must be said that the proposal for a decision has drawn up a mother's working body, no matter how the previous speaker has stated it. It was prepared on the basis of a discussion and a proposal. And a second time. As for the controversy, I tell you that I listened very carefully to the previous speaker and the current speaker and that they did not differ after the controversy, so I did not interrupt them. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Franc Žnidaršič, DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support the proposal of the home labour force, because we firmly believe that the demand for a legislative referendum on the subject of the Public Sector Wage Regulation Act is pointless, and it will result in costs that we believe would be better directed towards solving the economic and financial crisis, on the one hand. On the other hand, such types of referendums can become an absurd way of saving salaries not only for judges, but also for Members, doctors, teachers, professors and so on. There is only a suggestion, gentlemen, that we should propose a referendum, for example, on whether citizens are to have the same salary or the same pension, without it being important to who is who, how much work, how much pay, or how much time they have to study to get a pay today, and is different from, for example, what an unskilled or semi-skilled worker. Our parliamentary group does not accept comparisons, for example, the salaries of judges: the wages of workers in Mura. Such comparisons were also possible in the previous mandate when the Government could, and it was possible, miss a cent for those same workers who today are demagogosically referred to in the largest opposition parliamentary group, but did not do so when it was done, let's say, for a one-off allowance. Pensioners, the largest electoral base, received a one-off allowance, including those who had 500 euros in pension. Our proposal to obtain, say, a worker in Mura, who has only 400, was not accepted. This means that today, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, it is essentially about a low level of comparison of the salaries of highly qualified judges with those of poorly paid workers in production. That's unacceptable. It is also, in our view, inappropriate to compare the salaries of other public servants. We do not do these comparisons because we are aware that others can do more than their basic profession. For example, a doctor can work on a contract and earn a few times a court salary, a judge should do nothing but his work, which we believe to have been too low on the salaries of judges so far, and that the independence of the judiciary and the judiciary is only possible with the appropriate reward. Whatever the situation in our country, the salaries of the judges, according to the Group of Members, had to be regulated. In doing so, we do not fully understand how the Law on Public Sector Salaries was adopted in the previous mandate within the framework of all those present. Of course that's not true. Some of us had already pointed out the pointless solutions to the public sector wage law and voted against the adoption of that law at that time. This law has been adopted by the Constitutional Court and we never discuss the contention of decisions of the Constitutional Court, because we believe that this is inappropriate, unreasonable, unfair, that I do not even say cynicism, because anyone in this country cannot be smarter than the nine constitutional judges who, for example, write a decision unanimously. Everyone can think about what they want, but to discuss, to question the decisions of the Constitutional Court is inappropriate and unacceptable to us. It is clear that the judges' basic salary was too low, and talking about how it is dramatically increasing, does not withstand criticism, because we are going to put the same amount of money into this pay as we are spending today for what is now the so-called performance that can also have more faces. But we think it is very important and for every employee in this country the most important, what his salary is, not what the incentive supplements are, and so on, because only the salary is the one that is also at the time of the illness the basis for calculating the remuneration, which is the basis for calculating the pension, which is the basis for the annual leave and so on, while the stimulation is or is not; and this cannot provide any guarantee that we can say that the payment of a profession is appropriate or not. The basic salaries must be adjusted and the Constitutional Court's decision requires us to arrange the salaries of judges in such a way that they are comparable to those of other officials in that country. The solution, as adopted by this law, is considered by the DeSUS Group to be one that brings this comparability closer to the extent that it can withstand, without comment, a separate branch of authority with which it has been agreed to implement the Constitutional Court decision in this context. As a result, the solution is as it is, not as different. We believe that it is right that this solution has occurred and that there are a number of reasons for the possible unconstitutionality of the referendum on this subject, which has already been highlighted several times today, so we will not repeat. Therefore, it is very right and necessary for the Constitutional Court to declare this also this time and to say whether or not we will have a referendum. But there's another thing I'd like to point out. In our parliamentary group, we believe that understanding the constitutional right to decide the people in the broadest sense at the referendum, taking such a record literally makes no sense, because then we can end Parliament, and the people will decide everything at the referendum, and also things that the average citizen knows nothing or very little about, as happened with the then imposed referendum, for example, about artificial fertilization, which concerned less than ten, on average, women, we have spent a lot of money instead of putting it in health, so that it could be done for those who have the right or right to have it. The same applies to another referendum. We believe that we are here to decide on behalf of the electorate, and we are prepared to accept their judgment on whether we have done good or bad at every election. The referendum, however, should decide on those matters which are issues of the nation as a whole, on issues which everyone can understand and which can then be decided by any electoral beneficiary on a case-by-case basis, without doubt as to what it is, and whether it will act properly if it inherits or does not possess the demagogic recommendations in the campaign and so on. In short, the proposal concludes that the matter is going to the Constitutional Court before the referendum is signed, we will support and in this regard respect the Constitutional Court's decision on this subject, whatever it may be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the Government, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have already given an opinion on the Law on the Public Sector Wages System in order to make the wage increase in the public sector's pay system worse and not harmonise, as ordered by the Constitutional Decision. The situation would therefore deteriorate further, on the fact that the Government intends to further reduce other salaries in the public sector, in particular staff members who do not have the permanent mandates granted as judges. We agree with the proposaler to call for a referendum to see drastic imbalances between judicial salaries, medical salaries and university professors' salaries. There will therefore be a great deal of dissatisfaction among other professional groups in the public sector and, as a result, the plaza of eligible requirements in the public sector can be suppressed. The public sector unions even argue that the Government has not consulted them on the proposed solutions and that they do not agree with some. On the other hand, the Council supports the proposal for amendments, which confirms that the Government has consulted judicial officials on the dynamics of changes. We are wondering whether judicial officials are more valuable than others in the public sector, who are also doing fair work and their demands are not heard in public. It is true that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and enforced, but let me stress all decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is also true that judges are already in a privileged position and are practically the only ones with a permanent mandate and thus a permanent job and social security. And it is also true that what I have already said is that times are not appropriate to raise wages, while thousands of people across the country are losing jobs and living on the brink of despair and social security. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are also aware of the need to respect the constitutional principle of the independence of the judiciary, so we have always listened to the proposal for their more effective work in principle: fair pay for honest work. However, according to our law, which was adopted at the last meeting, this guarantee is not granted. We believe that the solutions will not improve the efficiency of the work of the courts, as the stimulating factors for the work done in the previous system of wages are translated into higher fixed amounts, higher fixed wages. As a result of these changes, there is no guarantee that there will be less corruption and that some criminal will go to jail more quickly. As far as the referendum is concerned, we in the Slovenian People's Party's Group believe that this should be reserved for extremely important country-specific topics and topics affecting the sovereignty and integrity of the country. I'm sure that's not the court's salary. However, we also believe that matters should be settled in an earlier manner so that the request for a referendum would not be necessary at all. We will certainly not support the proposed decision, as we cannot support limiting the right to a referendum or clarifying the entire electoral body on a particular subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! It is perfectly clear and understandable that this decision will not be confirmed by the Slovenian National Party. It's actually a strange thing to ask yourself what it means and what it is. All together, somehow confused, confused, the constitution is not respected and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not respected, nothing is respected, what is legal, and then in the newspapers we follow the statements of the President of the National Assembly: if we put forward a proposal for a decree to be discussed by the National Assembly, we could vote on it. In short, he said he wasn't prepared for a decision, but that's not true. Here I have a decree dated 1.10.2009. Address: Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages [[and so on]] and the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. In short, the decree is here. Similarly, this point of the request for a legislative referendum was addressed on the home working body under point 1a and it states here: as a material you received the request of the group of Members and Members, the working material and the draft decree of 1.10.2009. It's in here. Interestingly, this is still on the Web site of the National Assembly, while this decree went unnoticed. But some of us have poor experience with the functioning of the coalition, so we get such paper evidence, print it, and store it. It was announced to the STA that this was not and simply because it was deleted from the computer system, this matter is in fact no longer. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in its 156th Article states that the President of the National Assembly shall include the proposal referred to in Article 184, that is, the proposal for a referendum, and the request referred to in Article 185, that is the same thing, the request for a legislative referendum on the agenda of the first meeting of the National Assembly. Well, that's not it. Because they have changed all the starting points and there are no requirements for a referendum at all. We have a conclusion of a parent's working body and we are discussing it and, of course, in this decision, it is in itself said that the referendum should not be. This is the starting point. Despite the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its Article 3 in the second paragraph, the first sentence states: "In Slovenia, the people have power." Maybe so. Only this people are divided into coalition people and the opposition people. Otherwise, it must be said that the number of coalition people from day to day is disappearing and land, and there is an increasing number of opposition people, and this opposition people will settle the matter in the next elections. Of course, the Government must ensure that they are not tried, that they are not brought to justice for such or other negligences, and therefore, as I am sure, the Government is pre-empting the judiciary with such a financial system and with these decisions that the possibility of introducing a referendum is denied. It will happen that judges with a life term will also have a life-long fixed salary. It is interesting, however, that, as far as we know, the content of this payroll law for judges has been coordinated in the Constitutional Court with Secretary-General Sovdatova. Such information was obtained and the coordination was accompanied by the Secretary of State Škrlec and also Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Of course, the Commander-General of the Constitutional Court of Sovdatov had a command, which should have previously agreed with Mr Zalar on how they would work. This one backed away, smart, it wasn't there, but it wasn't necessary. The Constitutional Court has taken part in the implementation of these amendments to the payroll law so that it can now be said that the referendum was unconstitutional; this is certainly already agreed upon. Moreover, it is necessary to know that, of course, the Constitutional Court, in its amendments to the law, has elected that a special fund or special money should continue to be paid for an increased amount of work to be abolished by this law for other judges. The Constitutional Court is supposed to receive these funds due to a large number of cases, and that's what a man would say is kind of close to corruption. One wonders what we're doing in this country. People say that judges learn from the Strojans how to pull the whole country and our system. The judges will have, the lowest, an estimated €700 higher monthly salary. Some judges who are now in the 48th pay grade and will go to 55th will have a higher salary of about 1,000 euros. And if we look at that the judges are about 3,000, if we multiply this by 700 euros, so we don't overdo it, it's 2.1 million euros a month. Calculate how much this is per year, and calculate how much it is in three years by the end of the term! And for money, the government can already allow itself to say to the judge, "You know what, we gave you the money, and now look how you'll judge us, you won't lock us up, you'll lose the paperwork, you'll plant the paperwork, the closet will be locked, and you'll lose the key. As if we do not know this from Slovenian case law. As much as you want. And it looks like there's gonna be more. The Constitutional Court has only written one contested decision since the higher judges had comparable salaries. But they lifted the wages of all the other judges, so that they would all go up somewhere. And now a judge with 30 years of age who will sit on that chair and sit there to the death, will simply have a higher salary than his professor, who was asked another month ago on the exam and said, "about six you only got." But no, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that he's gonna be stronger and richer, and then he's gonna say to the professor, "You know what, old, good, you only gave me six, but let's go get a beer, because I pay for it." The judge is making progress on his own as a public servant every three years normally and then in accordance with the tenders. That's what you call an extra raise. Besides, he's got a life sentence. And if we look at the difference between 3,000, there are even more than 3,000 judges, and the Members who are thus robbing them are Members 90. Calculate for yourself how many judges come upon one Member. We only have 18 ministers plus a prime minister. And each Member and every Minister, including the Prime Minister, is bound for a four-year term. If he is not good enough, the voters thank him and goodbye for the road if he is no longer in the National Assembly. It's impossible to throw a judge on the road. The judge has absolute immunity. It's untouchable. Its immunity extends to the criminal area and to the material area. That's what they say. He's not responsible for anything. We can no longer have someone, thank God, or the judges would have served her very much, I'm sure, and then they'd say, "huh, I was wrong." Once I was told by State Attorney Cerarev, when I warned her about her mistakes, she said, "Yes, it's human to be wrong." Yeah, very human, if someone's sitting on a felony for eight years, if they're charged, I don't know what kind of murder they're after. That's none of the judges' business. In order to take the lead in Austrian or German justice, they do not come to their senses, for in this case judges would have to pay a hell of a lot more, but they would have to work more, not drop everything out of their hands at twelve and then those who come from college to intern or something like that will continue their work. And they say, "Don't work too hard because it looks like we don't have much work to do." They say that this law will also improve by saving money, because there will be no more work performance allowance and an allowance for increased workload. That's great! This means that everyone will have the same high wages, whether he does something or does nothing. What does that mean? This means that those judges who worked, who worked hard, who carried the files home to earn more, even for that reason, will not get any more. And what will they say? If someone who sits around at twelve is at the market to get this better salad, they will follow his example. Clear! Why would we work if they don't work and have the same salary, the same money gets? Clearly, productivity will drop, the fact is that it will pay off the deed and there will be more sloths to be raised, as if they were not enough. It is interesting what our constitutional proposals for a referendum are written and said by the Constitutional Judges themselves. In December 2008, Dr. Cyril Ribičič wrote this about a referendum. "However, the Constitutional Court did not find and should not have taken into account, to please the adversaries who wished to regulate the height instead of the competent authorities [[classes, amounts, supplements, raises]] The court's salary." Mr Constitutional Judge has admitted that they are going to the Constitutional Court, gentlemen, of course from the coalition, but who else, from the opposition, do not know if we have access to it at all, and determine and demand and whisper, as Dr. Cyril Ribičič says. How this should be arranged, how it should be arranged, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is, who it If we move forward, we can also look at the rejection of a separate opinion on this referendum, the so-called referendum on lawyers. The negative opinion of the four judges, Mrs Marte Klanfer, Mr Mit Deisinger, Mr Miroslav Mozetič and Mr Jan Zobc. It reads as follows: It is, however, an intervention in the right of people to make decisions at the referendum, so important that it must be used with extreme caution and restraint if anyone wants to reject it. This is an area in which the Constitutional Court must act with restraint, and the prohibitions of universal decision-making must be rare, well-thought-out and universally justified. They can only be justified for constitutional reasons and not for political reasons. Here, in a political way, we are being reduced by justice, not only to us, but to the entire Slovenian people, the right to decide at the highest instance of democratic parliamentaryism and democracy, as far as it is in this country. He goes on to say: "that a skilled legislator can intentionally always prevent a legislative referendum." [[...]] And that's what's happening. I would only change one word here when it's written by a skilled legislator, no, I would say an uncompromising legislator, because our legislator, our coalition parties, are not skilled, but they are strong and they have a majority. They go as bulldozers, they destroy everything and they don't care, they don't care, because they know they're going to pick up in three years, which they can, what they can do then, but they don't care, because they're going to try some other law to guarantee their backs, finances, a good chair and the like. Next, these four judges say: "This is also the reason why the Constitutional Court, when deciding on a possible ban on the referendum, must guide the principle of 'and favour' the right to a referendum." [[...]] So the matter is clear, and the matter is clear, but of course it is not. A coalition group of all four parties prepared 63 pages of long explanations of how, what, why and what. Something like this has never happened before. And don't tell me, please, you've been making this yourself in a few days! The case has been ready for a long time. And he knows everything. And on page 29, you say, "... In view of the above, the National Assembly proposes to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, it should prevent voters from taking a decision at the referendum that would prevent the abolition of the anti-constitutional legal regime." So you demand that the Constitutional Court prevent human will. Gentlemen, what time do we live in? There's no more of that time, but apparently, we'd like him back. You're doing very well, but I don't think I'll know how long. The fact is, today we have heard a colleague talking about people's incompetence, that people don't know, Mr DeSUS, that they don't know what to vote, so we just have to make it clear and so on. Let us see what Mr Franci Grad writes in the book Parliament and Government: "The opponents of direct democracy also point to the inability of the people to make qualified decisions on difficult social problems." That's exactly what's going on. People are supposed to be stupid, so the DeSUS gentlemen wouldn't allow a referendum. It's true that they're stupid because they've inherited their flyers to get 1,000 euros a month's pension, which is absolutely impossible. And yet they sat down and put eight Members in Parliament. Maybe he's right. I don't know. It goes on to say: "The scope of decision-making on the most important social issues shows that representative democracy is no longer appropriate and sufficient to decide all matters in society, so that the most important social decisions cannot be taken only through political representatives who decide on behalf of the people, but must be left to the people themselves." What does that mean? That the referendum is indeed the highest will and most binding segment of democratic society. But no. There is no such thing, at least not in Slovenia. It goes on to say, Mr. Grad, what does the term "referendum" mean? He says: "In the expression of the referendum, we understand the form of direct voter decision on some issue which is important for society as a whole, but also for its individual parts." How important this proposal for a referendum is to society as a whole. People don't have to survive, judges are going to make fun of money. They will sit in there as long as they "fit", no one will be allowed to touch them and their decisions are final, uninviting and because "the crow crows don't turn off their eyes", they will continue to support each other. What is the way here in the National Assembly to pull it all together, but it's still scary. Mr. Battelli did his job, pressed him, and he was gone again than he had been before. Mr Guido Kres, despite the fact that the Human Party had announced obstruction, voted in favour. One wonders: Is this vote even legitimate and legal?Oh, my God! Is it or isn't it? Since the gentleman was non-existent, his head of the parliamentary group announced obstruction, but he voted against the one or maybe he is no longer a member of the parliamentary group. Is that possible? As I know, he has not left the Slovenian People's Party and is still a member. Interesting. Mr Saiovic said that all of this leads to a final solution. Haven't we heard anything like this?Oh, my God! I think in Hitler's part of Mein Kampf this is repeatedly quoted. I don't know if the current coalition is learning from that part. And if they're reading Hitler, let them read something else. Let them read his economic programme, which brought Germany out of economic straits, not the part where he spoke about lagers and the removal of opponents, as Mr Sayovic quoted. It's from that part. This is funny in the National Assembly. Once again, the Constitution in Article 3 says that in Slovenia authority has a people, despite the fact that some forms of people from Slovenian literature do not understand this and laugh, but do. They may understand when they are no longer in Parliament, when they are out of work and when they are on the road. And then even I'll be so humiliated and I'll invite them for a beer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u75	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I will say that I am personally convinced that the Constitutional Court in 2006 and 2008 has made it absolutely clear that the previous system of judicial and defence salaries is not in line with constitutional regulation, as the constitutional equality of the three branches of government is not regulated. Since the gap between the salaries of judges on the one hand and Members and Ministers on the other, I support the Constitutional Court's decision whether, by delaying the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, possible rejections in the referendum could have negative consequences. In the near past, the non-systematic resolution of the situation and the awarding of judges has given rise to a situation where the profession of a judge is no longer attractive even at the price of a permanent judicial mandate. It is noted that after a study and a legal and judicial examination, lawyers can obtain work that is not only better paid but also more respected. However, in the near past, ignoring this group in the introduction of a single wage system in the public sector has certainly not helped. Moreover, the legal solutions adopted in the previous term have been assessed, as I have said, by the Constitutional Court in violation of the Constitution, and we corrected this at the meeting on 22 September this year and aligned the law, in my opinion, correctly with the constitutional decision. Arguing by a decision of the Constitutional Court, if it does not require such a high salary increase, i.e. for 7 classes for the lowest judges of beginners, is incorrect for me. Of course, the Constitutional Court did not specify which class should the law for individual court titles determine, because this would interfere with our work, in the independence of Parliament. The content of the law is determined by the Parliament, which is the legislator, and not by the Constitutional Court. It is also unrealistic and misleading and even malicious to claim that the permanent term of judges means that they are untouchable. The permanent mandate is intended not to be subject to external influences, especially political parties and other branches of government, but does not mean that they bear any responsibility. More than once, it has been explained that the Judicial Service Act knows effective and strict mechanisms that monitor how judges perform their functions and mission. The last time, a good week ago, we explained several times that judges are subject to a detailed review every three years, where a special personal council examines their work in detail. And if the judge fails to achieve the expected results, he is subject to negative sanctions and is not making progress. That's not all. If the judge achieves really bad results, it is also possible to assess that he is not suitable for judicial function. And that means stopping you. Let me add, as the last good week has already said, that judges of beginners, whom we have discussed most today and the last time, are to be evaluated every year, the first three years when they are specifically under control. If they fail to achieve the expected results, they may be deprived of such a singing permanent mandate. Even though the duration of the mandate does not really protect against work or non-professionality. The number of judges who would have lost their mandate for this reason is not very high, since many find themselves not suitable for a judge, cancel their judicial mandate, return it and leave the judicial service. Of course, we all want the proceedings in the courts to take place quickly and in the short term. I hope that these times will come closer to us, but of course not by dismantling justice and losing even more respect for this part of our system. I support the Constitutional Court to decide whether there would be unlawful consequences and thus do not support the introduction of a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioners. I myself have been appointed to speak on behalf of the proposer, against my will. Therefore, I must cut down and say that the system of withdrawal of a permanent mandate, as you discussed, is ineffective. The judges, after the withdrawal of the term of office, and I asked the coalition to give me one name, and I haven't had one yet, go to the lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I hope that today as many people as possible have looked at the initial extreme nervousness and urgency of the President of the National Assembly, with which he was trying to conceal the bad conscience, because he knew precisely that he had withdrawn from his own legal practice, which he had developed at the exact same time in April of this year, and that practice had already deviated from past mandates when they had always dealt with a particular decision and, in particular, a proposal for a possible constitutional assessment. Why this rush, why this nervousness, and why the great aggression that we may have detected even with a large number of strong stupidities in some of the coalition’s performances? The answer is very simple: because of trying to cover up the fact that you have gone far beyond the Constitutional Court's decision, with the amendment of the law, with regard to these higher judicial salaries, and the way to do so in particular, and this is now only a cover for the enforcement of your completely sovereign political decisions of the existing coalition. This decision, in itself, is in itself profound, obviously unconstitutional. What's it really about? I firmly believe that, at a time when the state is facing an economic crisis, it should be a fundamental criterion in making any decision whether that law or act is development-oriented or could make life even more difficult for the economy, in particular its most vital work, these are small and medium-sized enterprises. And what you do with this law goes precisely in the direction of further economic disintegration of the country of Slovenia. It also interferes with the constitutional rights of entrepreneurs, legal entities, citizens and citizens. That is why this law is so controversial and, therefore, its application could constitute a violation of constitutional rights. Therefore, the referendum is necessary and therefore it is not in any way wise, meaningful, ethically acceptable to support the proposal for a decision you are making yourself. What did you go too far in? What does this law really mean? All the funds that have been, and are very large resources, all the funds that have been collected in the past and budgeted for the early resolution of judicial arrears, which is the cancer of the Slovenian judiciary, are now being converted into net judicial salaries, into a balance sheet in which the one who knows better and more jobs will no longer be rewarded, but will all, by some calculation, get the same. This in practice means, of course, that people, those who have done more and better so far, will be destimulated for their work. However, those who do worse, with less knowledge or less, will be rewarded. This means, in practice, this equation, which in itself is in some way the restoration of socialism in justice. But why does it interfere with human rights? Why did I specifically point out the problem of constitutional rights? Do you know what that means? This means, in practice, that the enforcement of your law will result in more judicial backlogs and even fewer opportunities for citizens and citizens, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises, to reach their constitutional right to judicial protection in court, to a trial within a reasonable time period, which also includes the implementation of the judgment delivered at the end. Those in the largest conglomerates can afford blackmailing small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Those who are the most vital part of the Slovenian economy will, because of your law, because you have gone too far, remain even more exposed to this kind of page of Slovenian transition. The very opposite argument, as you yourself have presented, is evident, is the fact that we have also offered a solution that would allow the rise of the judicial and all other salaries covered by this novel of yours to be raised, but of course we would not go to such extremes. We would raise them up for the class and leave enough room for manoeuvre to ensure that more quality work and more work are still further rewarded in order to encourage the speedy resolution of judicial backlogs. But you distribute all this money at once and to everyone, to the balance sheet, no matter how many people work in practice, no matter how much someone knows and how well that knowledge turns into judgments and the number of judgments they make. This, of course, in practice means that, in its essence, this law is deeply anti-developmental and reveals the anti-development attitude of the essence of the existing coalition, because it demolishes, further destroys by this law the weak, judicial protection of small and medium-sized enterprises, and of course of all citizens and citizens. And don't say that there are no problems in Slovenia. You all have words to fight corruption. However, this fight is effective only if it experiences its epilogue in court when it comes to the Slovenian economy and all other entities. You all have the full words of the fight against financial non-discipline, which is stifling the Slovenian economy, which is one of the serious problems of the Slovenian economy. But this fight is also effective, especially when it comes to those vulnerable, ordinary citizens and citizens, for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, if they experience their epilogue in court if there is no unreasonable judicial backlog. What helps the judgment given in favor if that company went bankrupt two years ago if people lost their jobs?!And in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, you have placed this at a time when Slovenia is already, because of your leadership, not to say incompetence and ignorance, faced with an extremely high, excessive level of poverty, when it is multiplying species in employment institutions and when it represents an disproportionate rise in basic wages precisely because it will no longer depend on the quantity and quality of the work done, an extremely poor example and spreads your policy - but it does not represent only a bad look for everyone we talked about today, because it will certainly also cause contradictions within these types because it will reward those who do not deserve it and hit those who would want to do more - but it also means a bad example for everyone in public administration who, for years, consciously cancel the work of income, which was intended to compensate for financial imbalances. However, once this has become legal and has started to level, this is now used in these debates as an argument that the whole public administration therefore has a disproportionate increase in salaries in the last period and should therefore be reduced. And in this context, you will now set 7 classes of higher wages for judges of beginners. In this context, you place higher wages throughout the judiciary as regards officials. And don't think people are stupid enough not to know what these salaries are. You all say they must be the same as the Members of Parliament. Yeah, okay. What are they like? Look, I'm just reading a few cases. County Court on Ptuj. This is data for July 2009, official website. 2 payments, every 7,142 euros. Or something even more interesting: the Ljubljana District Court 8,558 euros a day before the time, and then the Supreme Court in Ljubljana 8,936 euros and so on and could list. The highest salary in the National Assembly, which is exclusively paid by the President of the National Assembly, is €6,200. I also have an official copy here, so you can take a look at it. And by the way, the lady who so requested higher wages on television on behalf of judges said herself that she had a good EUR 7,000 salary a month before. This is said to be about twice as much as the majority of Members and Members present here. What does that mean? Is it necessary for everyone to take 1,000 to 3,000 euros to make their salaries comparable to those of Members and Members? That's what you're going to say, it's too much simplification because it doesn't concern everything. That's right. But it is also manipulated when a rookie judge is always taken and compared with someone else who still performs a special function in the National Assembly. It is also necessary to compare that with the basic and basic Member's salary, without all additions, without working bodies, without any responsibility to lead, without, I don't know, the Vice-President's seat in the National Assembly or the leadership of parliamentary groups. Then these things will be very similar. By the way, even for those who run a working body, there are very comparable numbers when it is not about the supplements that you were talking about. Let me give you €4,315 for January 2008. This has by chance been published publicly for one district court judge, with a special note that it is without specific performance supplements or additional work which have caused a rise in wages in some others. This is quite comparable to the salaries of committee presidents, and by the way, it exceeds a large majority of all other functions in the National Assembly. This is said in practice, what is clear is that already these salaries are not only comparable, but in many cases even significantly larger than the salaries of the National Assembly and that this whole story is about huge misappropriation. All you are really going to do with this novel is that all those funds that were precious, large, designed to eliminate judicial backlogs, will be poured into net wages. And in doing so, you claim that, yes, because the wages will not increase. Of course, but the structure will change. And how - to the detriment of citizens and citizens, to the detriment of legal entities, to the detriment of entrepreneurs and to the detriment of all those who wish to achieve their right in the courts, the right to judicial protection, the right to a trial within a reasonable time. And I would remind you that we pay this a few times. Because of the fact that there are no judgments within a reasonable time frame, no longer, unfortunately, the European Court or the European Union has punished us several times, not to say every week, because people did not have the opportunity to exercise their rights in the courts in Slovenia within a reasonable time. Now this situation is about to get worse. I just hope that someone will not develop a theory that this method of payment, which no longer stimulates additional work that no longer stimulates knowledge that does not stimulate anything that people do more, will accelerate the elimination of judicial backlogs. I hope someone's going to explain that, at least from the heart, they're going to laugh at each other, so they won't try to keep a serious face to themselves. All of this, leaving a joke aside, means something very bad for Slovenia. This means that, in practice, judicial protection, the exercise of constitutional rights in court will be more difficult or even impossible for many to reach than it has been before. This means that, in practice, some vital parts of the Slovenian economy can happen because they will not be able to obtain legal protection in court, because they will not be able to recover anything they have been exposed to, either because of financial non-discipline or other reasons, they will go to bankruptcy. And there will be an increase in the types of people waiting in institutions, and poverty will increase in Slovenia, just because you went into some marriage too far. Ladies and gentlemen, and because you have gone too far and far beyond the framework of the Constitutional Court, please do not answer it. Take responsibility for what you have done, allow the people at the referendum to decide on this law and, of course, follow another constitutional principle that a colleague who previously repeated in some way the quotations that I have already said in the Law on Lawyers have been released. This is that in modern society, in a modern country, in the modern legal order, as Slovenia has, direct people's decision-making has another very important constitutional function. This is to help implement the principle of power-sharing. Why? Since, under conditions, particularly the proportional electoral system, there are no major contradictions between the majority in Parliament and the government, of course, it is so important that someone else has the opportunity to directly intervene in this process. It's a fundamental democratic principle. And when the Constitutional Court, if you take your decision, weighs this, I hope that this will also weigh from this point of view, in view of the principle enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution that people have the right to decide directly, and in terms of the principle of the division of power, not only between the branches of government, but also in view of the fact that the direct decision of the people in this process, especially when it comes to the constitutional rights of the same people, since the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time, is the constitutional right of all citizens and citizens, certainly ethically and in Slovenia, to decide directly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman for your word. First of all, I'm going to allow myself a call from a colleague who has promoted Hitler's role in the German economy. True, Hitler helped the German economy in the 1930s by preparing for World War III. On the other hand, the third one is obviously waiting for us and may be predicted by the dramatic tone of our opposition colleagues. That spirit of arson, that's what we have to worry about. Incineration to all pillars and to all the institutions on which the state is founded, and in particular the rule of law. They're getting in the way. They are disturbed by these fundamentals, because today they are disturbed by judges, yesterday by the Court of Auditors, repeatedly by the Constitutional Court, several times by the anti-corruption commission, many times by the Ombudsman. We always find something that should be destroyed or at least neutralized by the use of the referendum tool. This is now also happening in relation to judges and directly in relation to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has stated that the Government respects the Constitutional Court's decision and tries to harmonise the payment system in a manner consistent with the Constitution and the law, without having any financial implications during this year and in the initial phase. Of course, in this spirit of incineration, this inspiration of Nero, who has been apparently inspiring the opposition in recent weeks [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Please, Mr President, there is a comment and a disturbance, and I would like to perform my performance without these disturbing noises from the rear. The opposition would like to organise and convene a referendum for that reason, and I think it is consciously working to create unconstitutional consequences, because it is mainly about creating such situations where the rule of law is largely based on the rule of law. But the two-faced demagogies of the referendum's candidates, who would have been directed against the constitutional and legally flawless coordination of the payment criteria of the judges with other state officials, go so far as to forget the opinion and the image the public has on us about Members. And they want to be judges, they want to replace even judges, even constitutional judges, without at least once a day looking in the mirror and seeing their own contradictions. I'm going to talk about these contradictions now. For instance. Would these same Members be willing to offer their own salary for a referendum? Why don't you hope so, gentlemen of the opposition? Do you know that most citizens and citizens would probably vote in favour of reducing our salaries? You know that, and you will never propose this referendum. Even more so, when we decided last year to lower the minimum wage, the temporary reduction of the Member's salary, at least one parliamentary group explicitly objected to this and voted against the reduction of parliamentary salaries. This group was one of the groups that are now proposing a referendum - the Slovenian National Party. I therefore ask whether, fellow Member Jelinčič Trimeniti, would be willing to give a human assessment of the merits of their own salary, which amounts to EUR 5022 gross? Mr. Gorenak said there's no such salary. Yeah, yeah, they are. It is Mr Jelinčič's parliamentary salary of EUR 5022. To be correct, my parliamentary salary is €4,200. Apparently, it bothers someone, they're afraid, because the phones will be ringing tomorrow. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] The voters' phones and polls will be ringing tomorrow and they'll ask me, "Is that right?".. [[...]] Yeah, it's true. Does that mean, like Jelinčič said, that we're playing with money?Oh, my God! If this applies to judges, so does we. Is that true? We know that's not true. We know that these are not astronomical wages, that we work for these wages to earn them, as all other officials deserve. As do the judges you lynch here, gentlemen of the opposition. Judges have substantially lower wages than ours, and we claim that our wages are not high at all. Oh. K., we agree. Mar is just and just. With what moral legitimacy do Members require a popular referendum only against the legitimate salaries of one category of state officials? So let us be self - critical, be honest with our own public, and move on. I know that my words will not be liked by my fellow Members, perhaps even on this coalition side, but let us be correct. There is a senseless use of public money in the National Assembly. Systematic. But it doesn't seem to bother anyone, at least the opposition. Some members of various groups of friendship, for example, despite the serious crisis, the severe social hardships of many, despite the events in Mura and Gorenje, enjoy exotic trips and exotic visits without which they would definitely survive, without any particular trauma, gentlemen. Let me just give you the most up-to-date case that is on the verge of scandal in these times. Between 23 and 27 October, three Members, as members of a group of friendships with India, and not as a permanent delegation in some international parliamentary bodies, plus a professional associate and translator, will travel to distant India. Members will fly to bussines class, the cost of taxpayers' money will cost between €16.000 and €17.000 for this kind of "embassy tourism". And this is just one example of the unnecessary cost-effectiveness of some of our unnecessary activities. Two of the three members of this flying group of friendships are members of the SDS, a party vehemently requiring a referendum on judicial salaries and today talking about labour salaries and social distress. I call it a great shame. And if you have the face to travel to India to "bussines class" and today to say you feel sorry for the Mure and Gorenje workers, I don't understand where ethics is anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u83	First, he answered with a raise of his hand, Mr. Friend. What would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u84	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u86	The Honorable President. You're monitoring the session. You're the first of the same. It is your duty to draw attention to lies, teasings and insults. Mr. Jurič, Yuri, I'm sorry, the name change is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Is muddy, underwhelming and lying [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Name the gentlemen as they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u90	I'm getting better. He was muddy, underwhelming and lying. On behalf of the Group of Members, President Zmago Jelinčič spoke only comparatively about what Hitler was doing in World War II and before it. He said how he had achieved economic development and condemned atrocities at the same time. And you're setting up here like we're some Nazi fascists in the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Mr. Friend, this is not a procedural question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u92	If you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u93	This is your replica and you have no right to do this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u94	If you let me go all the way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u95	No, I don't allow it anymore. Please, if you'll stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u96	It is your duty to warn him, for he himself issues the interest of Slovenia when he advocates Italy and Italy and this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u97	There's no replica. Mr. Ziherl, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u98	I would like a procedural proposal that my colleague, who is also Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, should study the Rules of Procedure and be critical enough to measure all things with the same vats. First, as Vice-President himself has every opportunity and opportunity to make a statement on each delegation and to express its reservations [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Mr. Zicherl, this is not a procedural proposal, and please, if you don't argue about a delegation that's going to go anywhere. Today we are talking about a precise agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u101	It works for everyone. And I'll say another sentence at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u102	I would just like a colleague who is Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy to be self-critical. If he participates in the validation of delegations, he cannot trouble this delegation now. But if he's not at the session, if he's got 15,000 urgent other things to do, that's his problem. All these delegations, which have been approved to date, have been approved under all the rules existing on international activities [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u104	a new rule is being drawn up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Mr. Ziherl [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u106	Mr. Ziherl [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Someone else is going on an exotic trip. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u109	in Havana, but it will not be at the same meeting [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u110	That's all I'd say in the end. You've all taken advantage of the Rules of Procedure. These were not procedural questions. These were your discussions, your replicas. I'm not gonna let that happen again during my session. The exact agenda is set. We've got it on hand today. Mr Silven Majhenič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Access by judges to improve salaries with a sentence was not acceptable. They've been betting for 10 months, not just six, like they used to say. This is unprecedented blackmail, and they do not know it in Europe. The case stems from 1993 when the salary fell by 20% to Members and also to other officials, including judges. Judges have a permanent mandate, which is not to be ignored, but also have general immunity. But we don't have all these Members, if they already like to compare themselves with us. We're on the test every four years. Otherwise, the back actions would be absolutely as real as they happened, even for the other Members as well. You're saying the wages don't go up because the number of judges is going to go down by 116. This sounds very populist, but I wonder what will happen to the judicial backlogs, which are already huge in reducing the number of judges, but it is not realistic to expect reductions in judicial backlogs in due course. Judges say they understand that the economy is in crisis. See, if we understood that, we wouldn't sue the country for a difference in retrospect, which means huge costs for the country and less resources for the development of the economy. You're saying that wages will increase from 2010 to 2011. Where did they ensure that we would sail out of the crisis at that time? And judges will have their raise based on current experience. We will freeze the salaries of the public sector, regardless of the consequences, and look at the judges over their fingers. Surely this problem with the salaries of judges would not have happened if judges had suggested it during the period of the merger, they woke up at the wrong time and time, which proves that they do not care about the financial sustainability of the country. You're also talking about material independence. I'll give you that. But it must also apply to the police, to the judicial police, to customs, and to those who would belong to them. Judges, prosecutors and lawyers are now officials who are organised against the state, but this branch should take care of the state's reputation rather than demolish it. In all of this, when everyone is doing their best to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible and in the least pain, the judges care little and only see themselves. With this message and action, however, they encourage every country to sue, irrespective of the consequences. This, however, sets a poor example for our society, and it is expected that the example of judges will follow the entire chain of public servants. It will be so hot in the fall, for the bones have separated themselves from the hedgehog very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u112	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franz Puksich. [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I note that today, however, some reasonable and objective assessments concerning the situation in the judiciary have also been heard in this debate. It is certainly right that we are concerned about the fact that many procedures go beyond a reasonable time limit. It is certainly right that we are concerned, and we, as legislators, should also be concerned that, for example, our complainants at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg are generally successful and then the state is obliged to pay very high damages. Surely it is right that we are concerned about all these things. It is also certainly right that we are concerned when we know that trials are, in principle, too long. But these are things that need to be done in a wise way. And these are things that need to be regulated by individual laws. And it is not that all these weaknesses would be attributed only to judges, but that is what is being done here today. But perhaps some kind of procedural law is bad and should be changed so that procedures can run faster than they run. And even more so, there are many things that need to be addressed better and more rationally in the legislation that concerns this area. But I am concerned, and I think that there are many others in this National Assembly that we are witnessing again today to so much populism and so much demagogism as we have heard today by some opposition Members. Of course, this does not belong to the National Assembly. And not just today, for several years now, we have actually witnessed the public's conviction by the SDS and the SNS, which today requested this extraordinary session that judges are some kind of socially harmful caste. That it is a group of lazy people who are doing little and bad, and for which they are already receiving very high wages. There is no point in expecting those who say this, even today as Members, to be aware of what it means to respect the rule of law what you are doing here today. I hope that it is unworthy for Members to make such assessments in the National Assembly as have been heard here today. I must appeal to us that we must be aware of the responsibility that we have as Members when we judge the third stretch of power in this country. Therefore, I hope that there is someone else here who is a little ashamed to hear such claims about the judiciary, about the judges and finally participate in undermining the rule of law. And when the rule of law dwindled, what scene would then take place here today? Something was said about the hot fall that awaits us. Something was also said that suggested the street. It's not fair that we do these things that way. But it's a very serious profession, it's a serious profession. Those who remember what you may have been, some of us are here, in that mandate 1990 - 1992 in the Constitutional Commission, how many words have been spoken in favour of us exercising a permanent mandate of judges and for what reasons. Suddenly, it became so quantifiable if the judge had a permanent term of office. It is really hard to participate in such a discussion and to listen and hear so much nebulosis and so much inaccuracies and so much disrespect for the judicial branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Mr. Gorenak, Mr. Proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u115	On behalf of the proponents, these are SD, DeSUS, Really and LDS, which you have authorized me to represent your views against my will, I must point out that the words "socially harmful caste" are not appropriate words for judges. I didn't hear that in the debate and I'd like to ask, on your behalf, please don't use that. Of course, I also have to say, when I spoke on behalf of the SDS, I wasn't talking about the street. I asked myself a question, and I answered it immediately myself that this is not appropriate, that we do not want it, and that changes to the Constitution are urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u116	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Now I don't know when I heard about the street - maybe someone already knows this river, why the chicken goes across the road - because it doesn't know that on the other side it's the same as on this side. But I will start here because I am very concerned and, on the other hand, disappointed, and I hope that the judges and the judicial branch of power do not judge and value us in this way, as we do in this Chamber today, as well as last week, when I was at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, that is what we do with them. I hope not. For me, both things are perfectly legitimate, an initiative for a referendum that Members can legitimately take advantage of and the opposition has taken advantage of, on the other hand, an initiative or a proposal for a constitutional review, or this referendum is not unconstitutional. Therefore, I simply do not understand why you are taking advantage of the general social and social situation in the country and here in order to be so biliary and - to use this word as one of the proponents - you are discussing judges and the judiciary. And this is how those who have been grazed for years on a state-run manger, in one way or another, are debated on important high official functions, and receive quite favourable salaries, as well as privileges. And that really seems a little stale to me, but that's humiliating and sad. So I'm going to say something because I wrote down that no one is going to say that I misheard what I heard in this week or those ten days from the mouth of those who propose a referendum. Today, too, it has been repeated, "this coalition is incompetent, it is unprofessional, it speaks nonsense, it is a systemic corruption with this law, it is a second-class functionary" and so on, not to mention. I heard that last week on the committee and today some things repeated here in the National Assembly. That is why, as colleague Juri said, it would be good for those of you who make such an easy assessment, not only on the judicial branch of authority and judges, but also on us colleagues in the National Assembly, in the morning, before you go to work, to look in the mirror, really, before you say those words because they are not worthy, to be really unworthy of the National Assembly. Let me get this straight. I support the decision-making initiative because the previous government and Minister Virant did not want to, I will use that word, he will not, and he has had the opportunity to settle this matter with the salaries of the judges. And I'll tell you about the 2006 and 2007 case. If he could have arranged this for the secretary of state, and among them, the proposaler was so vehement today, which, for ten wage classes with the Civil Servants' Salaries Act, raised him to the 90th and sixtieth classes, because the whole stimulus you received earlier, almost half of the personal income in stimulation, in the pay grade, could have done so for the judges as well. He didn't do it. But he did it for part of the officials, those who were then in the government and around the government. Perhaps even I was the only one who did not vote in favour of this law, and the opposition voted. Not only for this reason, but for other reasons, I did not vote for the Public Sector Salaries Act at the time, precisely because of this humility, this subordination, because the former government and the Minister behaved as such, because they also set us, Members, classes, not that we were able to talk about it, but the government has set wages. She set her own wages and refused to do so to the judges and the prosecutors and the lawyers. And the previous government and the former minister should take this as a lease and we simply correct a mistake or commitment to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which the former minister did not wish to enforce or implement. He had the opportunity, however, to discuss the new law all year long.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Mr. Dr. Gorenak. In what name?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Of course, they've given me the authority to propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Then I hope, Dr. Gorenak, that you will speak so, on behalf of the proposer, the committee is called.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Yes, of course, I've been authorized and I have to explain. I only explain that Dr. Virant is at pay, as you mentioned. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u122	You're probably not going to speak against the conclusion, are you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u123	No, not at all, because I have to represent him! The State Secretaries for the time of that government before 2004 were in this country, as I recall, of 60, seventy or even OK, forty-four. [[...]] Legislation at the time, which was in the time of the previous government, brought about a situation in which the country still has as many State secretaries as the ministries plus the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Or in other words: from 64, the number of State secretaries fell to 18 in the time of the previous government. This is also the only reason here is the only reason why the former government, or then the applicant, paid the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! So Minister Krebs said that the wages would not rise, that they would not rise until 2010, even though we tried to prove to her that with 1. Seven. 2009 raises for one or two payment classes, depending on who. And that's a fact. But it's probably not going to mean much more money, because, as you say, it's going to be less judges. It would also be good for a little more accurate information - how much less and why. Some say that if we are so opposed to raising the judges ’ wages, we should lower our wages first. Let me remind you, even those colleagues who did not have you in the parliamentary seats, the previous term was that the first salaries that fell on the proposal of Minister Virant were the parliamentary salary. It was only then that everyone else, or the last term of office, rose above all. And we have also voted, as far as I know, to lower our salaries because the country is in a crisis or economic crisis and we have problems in a hundred and one area, although you are not reducing public spending. Even more, you're making a great deal of it, even though we've warned that if we're giving up paying too, there's probably somewhere else to be done and we're not just gonna do anything with coffee. And as some of you have said, it is not fair to talk about judges - I am aware that judges must be paid well for their success in their work. It is therefore far less understandable to me that we went to amend the law or that, on a proposal from the Government, the law has been amended, so that various additions, which have been motivated, have been abolished, which have meant greater efficiency of judges. Smart policy would probably take some time to analyze these things, what actually happened with the changes in the pay system, and also measure which judges were more active, which they did more. Now, of course, we have put this back in some levelling room, although the Constitutional Court has said nothing about it and has not decided that any regulation which would stipulate that part of the judge's salary is also dependent on his work performance is not inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If you finally decide to pay judges first by 8% - as I have already said, for one or two grades with 1. 7, you can probably admit that this is the case - will their performance be increased by 8%?Oh, my God! And then when they increase by 7 payment classes in 2010, that is 28% - how many more cases will be solved, how much less backlogs will there be, how much more performance will there be? Because - as you say - you have eliminated all motivational elements or most of them, which might mean greater ingenuity or bring greater ingenuity to the judge. If you were mean, you would say that Minister Krebs, in cooperation with her colleague Zalar, is raising his salary to the Minister's wife, who is a senior judge and will be charged with this Act by 1. 7. Salaries for two payment classes, then 2010 and 2011 for 7 classes; the same for his brother. But it is likely that the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission will know more about this and, I hope, take action and do so if so. But these may be mere conjectures and, of course, nothing will happen, or this has nothing to do with what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am very pleased that no one in my family is employed in the judicial branch of power, so I am not discussing the salaries associated with my family. But I am kind of surprised by the debate we are hearing today and also by the procedures that have been followed through today's meeting. First, the announcement of obstruction in the vote on the agenda, and then the presence of this item; but I am not sorry for the presence, because it is good to exchange views and views. I was sorry for the obstruction because we were late or two and a half hours waiting for us to be able to secure the concoction, but my colleagues are also busy and, of course, they know nothing about the pay. Although I hope it will be slightly different this time because the obstruction has been announced in violation of the Rules of Procedure. And what's this story all about? It is known by the time of the request for constitutional review to be sent to the Constitutional Court. It is known that if we procedurally complicate the matter, we can delay this deadline, and if we miss this deadline, we have an inevitable referendum, because it requires all the conditions and what has happened to us in the past has happened to us. And today we are actually discussing the conclusion that the Constitutional Court will decide whether the implementation of the referendum and the possible rejection of these two laws would have an anti-constitutional effect. This will be decided by the Constitutional Court, and so it is! If it decides not to have an unconstitutional effect, of course, the referendum will also be announced at your request. And it is not true that this requirement has been eliminated. This requirement is still alive and, as I said, if the Constitutional Court decides otherwise than we expect the proponents of this initiative for constitutional judgment, then the referendum will, of course, be announced. And in mockery of the National Assembly, we also received an amendment at the bench. We will discuss the amendment later, but it is not logical that you should prepare an amendment with a content that tells us that we do not consider it constitutionally controversial to present a referendum. This is a joke, to say the least; but since the procedure is such, we will probably also get this amendment and discuss it before the end of this meeting. If, of course, I was asked whether I was satisfied with the judicial system, the third branch of power, I would have to admit - if I listened to the public opinion - that I was not satisfied that the proceedings took too long, that even so that the police said they had done everything necessary and the court had not done what was expected of them. The main point is that this system needs to be adjusted, redesigned, but with system regulation. However, I do not believe that the main conditions or reasons for this unfortunate state of affairs are the salaries of judges. And we say that with this, the salaries of judges will be comparable to that of parliamentary salaries and that, in this case, the salaries of judges are too high - the officials of the third branch of power are too high. This, of course, tells the public that our salaries are too high if they are in line with our salaries. And if we ask the public if our salaries are too high, we'll get an answer that they're too high! Reliable! And when you want to compare it again with the workers' salaries and with the problems that workers face, it is a game that can be very dangerous at this point, and so on. A worker who earns €600 net or €540 net will never understand that a Member can get €2,500 net and our salaries will always be too high for them. Thus, the problem in the system, in the system, is such as you have accepted it or, above all, in the previous term, when you boasted that you have regulated the system of salaries of public servants. You've made a perfect circus, not just in health care, somewhere else, and the problems are in view of what we're witnessing today. Well, it's very simple to speak so over your thumb and speak and judge. Sometimes it would be good for us to look at our work and the assessments that this Parliament receives in every single public opinion survey and to have a lot of work and, above all, we would behave differently. Today, we are discussing whether the Constitutional Court should decide whether the implementation of the referendum and the possible rejection of laws could constitute unconstitutionality. And this is the only decision that can be taken today, and I hope that we will also vote on this decision. Later, when the Constitutional Court says so, and I hope that we trust in the Constitutional Court, because if we do not trust in the Constitutional Court and do not trust other institutions, then the warnings given by my colleague Dara Lavtizar Bebler are completely in place. So, I trust the decisions of the Constitutional Court, however it may decide, will be binding on me, and if they find that the referendum is not disputed, I will be among those who will agree to the referendum invitation, but which requires the referendum itself to be declared. I await the decision of the Constitutional Court, and before that, the vote in the National Assembly, which will also take this decision - I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u128	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! I hope that what is written in the course of time is true and that Dr Vinko Gorenak is a representative of the proposer as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and I do not know that four coalition parties would authorize him to answer on behalf of the proposer. On behalf of the Committee, because the committee has so decided by vote that today we are discussing a proposal for a decision on the request of the National Assembly for the Constitutional Court to judge the request for a referendum - and I will not continue because we know what we are talking about. I have already said on the Committee that I support such a proposal for a decision because it seems important to me that the National Assembly test all the ways before it requires people to decide on a matter that politics cannot simplify. In accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, a procedure has been carried out whereby a constitutionality assessment may also be sought during the referendum request. I will take the decision of the Constitutional Court as it will be, and if the Constitutional Court decides in favour of our substitute, then the referendum will not and will enter into force. If the Constitutional Court decides otherwise, the referendum will be held and I will attend this referendum, as I have done so far with all the referendums, although people do not feel a great affinity for participating in the referendums, especially when they feel that the policy has not shown sufficient determination to regulate public matters. Now, what do I see the problem? The problem is that in these matters, which we are currently discussing, in fact, the powers of the three branches of government are measured: the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government are not highly quoted and can compete for the bottom of the scales. Therefore, it is not right for us to be plagued by the inappropriate judgment of the individual branch of power as it may be heard. Why I am convinced that all three in the country are essential to the functioning of the legal and social state. And instead of worrying about improving the system of functioning of individual branches of government, it seems like we are trying to get everything to the lowest possible knowledge of performance and ability. I am following the Ombudsman's reports, the Human Rights Court's decisions in Strasbourg: we are everywhere warned of an unreasonable trial. Other things do not exactly show that we have all matters in court arranged so that we can be content with them. Or, as a result, there is still a need to inspire mistrust among people in the judicial branch of power, but there is another question, and I am sure that this is unacceptable. Especially if it comes from the legislative branch of power. It was said that, in the previous term, the payroll law had settled matters and how the Minister of the former government had lowered the salaries of Members. Yes, because this was the very interesting thing about the previous term: that the executive branch of the authorities easily removed both the legislative and judicial branches of power and did not worry much! But given what has been said earlier, why so enormously the salaries of State secretaries in the previous term have increased, I would advise the interpreter to listen to the arguments now said: the mass will not increase, only the internal relationship will change. Then, too, this explanation could be linked to the other one. But this current explanation regarding the mass of salaries for judges is not acceptable to the opposition, while those other arguments for the return should be. There was a lot of talk about what some were paying off, and the name of the Minister of Public Administration was quoted. Then I would ask those who are so very concerned about it. It was said before, the law allows it. However, the talk was about the high costs of some trips, which are not an integral part of the mandatory presence in the loved bodies of various parliamentary assemblies. But it was said there: What the law allows, this can happen. The law probably also allowed ministers of the Bajuk government who had worked for six months to have the right to compensation and, if I recall correctly, at least two former ministers had the right to compensation for even two years because they had one year after the law, and the second year after the law, because they were supposed to have just before retirement. I remember one as a very vital founder of the new university. But these are, of course, completely different stories. I now consider it to be a grave intervention in the freedom of association and so many worldly marriages, because now young people should also think about whether their marriage mate is looking in the same direction for a study. Because then it can happen that both officials in the judiciary or that two of them will be teaching at the same university, teaching at the same university, or teaching at the same school, and this may be a problem. Such cases were in the middle of family ties, as we remember that one was the Vice-President of the Government, the other was the President of Parliament. Yes, what now, Mr. Grill! Exactly what is true for you must not apply to us, but we are all citizens of the same country, and when you talk about family ties and restrictions on what someone can or should not do, then it is also necessary to refer to the law and write a competitive clause, probably that someone should not do so. I myself will support this proposal for a decision and, of course, I do not intend to support the amendment, which was previously divided into parliamentary groups, and I consider this amendment as a contribution to the development of a sense of humor in the National Assembly. But if you want, there's something else I can tell you about comics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u130	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that it is clear to each of us, and probably to all the viewers and viewers who have started to see this extraordinary session today, that there has been a clear agreement between the judges, the government, the coalition that this referendum should not in any way be reached. Although the President of the National Assembly has apparently violated the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the Constitution, and he has explained in his own way, he is leading this meeting in the way that is now taking place. Why prevent the referendum? This referendum should be stressed that it is not directed at judges, as some try to represent it, but rather that referendum gives citizens and citizens an opinion on whether it is the right way for each judge to be given such a high pay grade at the outset. It is often possible to hear that the judge must also be trusted that he is professional in order to carry out his work in accordance with legislation, constitution, etc. I believe that even if you wanted to, you couldn't do it, because experience does it. So, of course, I wonder if any of those who make this claim so vehemently public would be able to operate on a doctor, a beginner surgeon - in case of any major surgery. I'm afraid not, but believe me, sometimes some judgment can be of vital importance to a lot of people. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states in Article 3 that power is in the hands of the people. This is what we decided to do when we made our own stand, and this is what we fought for, and a lot of people lost their lives at the time, but today I wonder whether the people in Slovenia really have power. I'm afraid not. We are once again witnessing the abuse of the Constitution of Slovenia and also of the Constitutional Court. The referendum issue that we have put into the procedure at the time of the submission of the signatures of the two parliamentary groups is quite clear and, as we now compare this issue with the text of the Constitution, I must say that there is no link between a normal citizen and a number of lawyers anywhere in the world so that such a question as to be decided at the referendum could be violated by the Constitution or would be in any form of unconstitutionality. However, it is more than obvious that an institution such as the Constitutional Court can, in fact, explain on any subject whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. And also their constitutional decisions, which they issue, are written in such a way that legal cases are not fully understandable, but their decisions must be respected, and I agree with that, I do not wish to politicise them as well as the decisions of the courts. It is right to respect the legal order that the Constitution is respected, but does this mean that the judges - let them be constitutional - are they also infallible? Are you hoping someone will say that? I'm afraid not. What will you say about Mr. Uhernik's case? It comes from the New City or from the surrounding area, he was innocently convicted, he spent many years - a tragedy for him and even his family - and now no one apologizes to him! How do you feel about the fact that the court is unmistakable, including the Constitutional Court; that is, the Constitutional Court, which will essentially be pronounced on itself, is now given here as an institution above all. Last but not least, it will come to pass that we do not need the National Assembly, that we do not need anything, the Constitutional Court, and now, after the new Court of Auditors, that they decide whether or not the armoured men have the appropriate configuration for NATO standards, and for everything else. I'm afraid we're not going the right way here. It is said that wages, or so you justify in the coalition, of course also in the Government - by the way, the Government has been present here since the beginning of the session, and has not even spoken a word about trying to comment or deny our statements, so that I am also surprised - but it is said that the judiciary is independent and that it is, of course, conditional on their salaries. What, though, is the salary that ensures their independence? Is this the 70th grade now? I'm afraid not. The independent judge is primarily the one who feels loyal and, above all, that he is honest in heart. No pay is guaranteed independence. You say that judges do not have the opportunity to make additional profits, that they are limited as Members. That's not true! We cannot have MPs, except those who carry out pedagogical processes, any additional earnings. Lukende’s case, where substantial funds are allocated to judges, allows those who want to work to work in the afternoon, on Saturdays, Sundays, and at night, so as to increase their income accordingly. Lawyers are privileged here, of course, including courts that set up a bankruptcy manager. We have listened to the enormous amounts that millions of euros go into! It's all a mutual arrangement! It means that in cases where the company goes bankrupt, when workers are not paid, bankruptcy managers split into hundreds of thousands of euros. The bankruptcy managers - for the public to know - are essentially the undertakers. Instead of giving the money left by this company to people to be paid back, it is shared with those who then bury the company to the end. And this is once again the work of the court and those who, of course, have a license as a bankruptcy manager. And when we are discussing this, in the previous term, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marolt Robi, who has been briefed in the previous term on how he is preparing legislation for bankruptcy managers, has this license, and has not been a bankruptcy administrator for this term once. So much for explaining back. That's why it really surprises me why we're so afraid to make this decision at a referendum, to let people make these decisions, and I believe in people. They'll make the right decision. And even when there were indications today, would you like to put in our parliamentary group a referendum on parliamentary salary. Now! We have no reservations, as in the previous term there were no reservations when we voted against wage cuts. Members of Parliament have reduced our salaries, or are they, in the past mandates - on what grounds? Now the judges are demanding payback. In the past term, we have reduced our salaries and even in this. There is no reservation that it would be necessary and that it would really contribute to a better state in the country in order to do so. That's why I can't support the decision you've just forced him here. This is unconstitutional, especially against the will of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u132	Mr Miran Györek has the floor, a bad minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Slovenian national parties presented by our President, who are now absent, which Mr Juri has abused to be able to confess to this account. [[...]] Although I also believe, Mr Yuri, that you are the last person to talk about the costs of the Member and their salaries. Because my last name reminds me of the various costs of swinging into an account. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] countries, on overpaid mayoral salaries and so on. [[...]] But let's just leave it. Now that's irrelevant. It's more of a referendum where I have a constant feeling that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. It's gone. Replica, Mr. Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u135	After mentioning this, I will not explain to Mr Györek things he obviously does not know. But the fact is, I've highlighted something that was said in front of that counter today that our government could learn from Hitler about economic policy. Everyone can read that in a magnetogram. I understood this as raising the economic policy of the then German leader. If that's the wrong interpretation, I don't know. I think I got it right. It was said, Mr. Györek, that we could learn to master Hitler. That was a clear and unequivocal message. I hope it's wrong. Because such things are very delicate and it would be more appropriate for me to misinterpret those words. But I'm afraid I'm not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today's agenda is to discuss whether a referendum on wage law would have counter-constitutional consequences. Let me repeat what I have already said on the Committee and what we have actually been saying throughout the coordination with judges and other judicial officials. In its two decisions, the Constitutional Court found that the regulation of salaries of judicial officials, as in force today, is contrary to the Constitution in three main points: it is unconstitutional in the way in which the salary scale is aligned with inflation, the so-called escalation, is unconstitutional because it does not allow for the protection of the judicial salary as a whole, and it is unconstitutional because the salaries of the civil servants of the judicial branch are not comparable to those of the other two branches of government. This is the content of two constitutional decisions, and this government, at the time of its term of office, had to face problems resulting from such unconstitutionality. This has been going on for almost three years and a set of four laws that have been proposed to this national assembly and have been adopted here, this is a constitutionality in its entirety in a constitutionally consistent manner - and the Government is convinced of it - has abolished. This set of four laws is now broken down into three sets: the two laws that are now the subject of the referendum, if I may say so, to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which has been vetoed in the State Council, and to the Law on State Defence, which has not been vetoed and is therefore in force after it has been published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on State Defence provides that the salaries of state defenders are subject to new ranges, new pay grade, new number of advances, all of which, of course, remains in the air because the system law to which this law refers is not at all ready for implementation. This law is a law on the system of public sector wages, and this law is now on the agenda before you and it is decided whether it is worth signing a referendum or whether a referendum should be signed or whether the consequences of such a referendum should be decided by the Constitutional Court before such a referendum. This is another element in the event that today the National Assembly decides to sign a referendum as a new anti-constitution occurs in a possible negative outcome of the referendum or when the law is rejected at the referendum. Today, many words were said about the time when the coalition allowed itself to regulate court wages. There was a lot of talk on the boards about that. I already said what is clear from the Constitutional Court's decision that the last decision to fulfil the obligations of the National Assembly as legislator and the Government as a proponent expired on 1 July this year. In the second decision, the Constitutional Court tightened its finding and gave the legislator a time limit for the annulment of the findings of non-compliance with the Constitution. In the event that these two laws are sent to the referendum and that their validity at the referendum is rejected, this deadline will not be respected and the unconstitutional consequences I spoke about in the introduction will continue. The fact that the current regime is not in conformity with the Constitution, as I have already said, has been decided twice by the Constitutional Court. Today we have heard some arguments, as well as a number of personal disqualifications, suggesting that the members of the Minister's family are connected because they are in the judiciary, that there has been some secret coordination in the Constitutional Court. Madam Members, I can tell you that there are no secrets. The text clearly states with whom the negotiating group has been coordinated and on what it has been coordinated, and it also states that coordination has taken place with representatives of the Constitutional Court, but with respect to the salaries of Constitutional Court officials, not on judicial salaries. These are two different things. And when the statement is addressed to the legislator and to the Government, you will have a system here when -- if I use this literal comparison -- "kadia sued, kadija sued", suggesting that the Constitutional Court could not be objective in this assessment, I must categorically reject such objections. The Constitutional Court has not annulled the provision for constitutional judges. This is not what the Constitutional Court has done to date. The Constitutional Court has repealed the regulation relating to the judges of the ordinary courts. The Constitutional Court rules a special law, the Constitutional Court Act, and these are two different branches of officials. Officials of the Constitutional Court are also not in the same category as court officials. This is reflected in the annex to the Public Sector Wage Schemes Act, which is classified in the second subgroup. That is why I cannot accept these kinds of perceptions and, as I have already said, I categorically reject them. I have already said and commented on the committee, and it is obvious that this should also be done in plenary session, indications about some of the salaries that some judges are supposed to receive - 7,000 euros, 6,000 euros, 8,000 euros and so on. Yes, such payments exist, this is not a secret and such payments are due to Lukenda and are due to the supplement to the increased volume of work and are due to the supplement to regular work performance. All of these are instruments and institutes that this government has not introduced and is abolishing. And after these laws have been passed, or after they have entered into force, the laws you now have on the table will no longer be visible to judges. The government is of the view that, according to the nature of the judicial work, the incentive system for higher wages is not effective for greater efficiency. This has been shown by the figures and also by the judiciary officials to stand united in the view that the system of stimulants, as introduced by the law on the public sector wage system, which is in force today, does not give effect and is not adopted positively among the judicial types. In doing so, because the Slovenian public will not feel that the regular performance and the increased volume of work is a special large number, I must say that the supplements provided in this Title are the highest. These aren't the numbers that would get judges to bring the files home at night and do their job on weekends. The judges have done this before Lukenda was introduced, and the judges are doing this today, and I am sure that the judges will also do so in the future. It is true, however, that the attitude towards the judicial branch of power in the past has caused considerable tension. It has also caused a lot of negative effects that we are dealing with today. That's not what this government wanted. The verdict was one of these consequences. The lawsuits, of which much has also been said today, are also the result of this situation and this relationship. Lack of communication to coordinate wage problems. These lawsuits did occur last year, not 10 years ago, when injustices occurred. The judges explained why, and I don't think we need to do that again. The point is that these actions reflected dissatisfaction with the attitude with which the authorities of that time acted towards the judicial branch of power. This government believes that it is necessary to cooperate in a creative manner with the judicial branch of government. Creative cooperation does not mean unconditional abandonment. We shared the impression that we took our work very lightly, gave in to what the judges demanded, and this is now. That's not true! Let me remind you. The judges' demands were that the court salaries should be the same as the minister's. Today, no judge in the country can get a salary equivalent to a ministerial salary. No judge if the law you have on the table today comes into force. The Public Sector Wages System Act, this latest novel, which we are deciding today, defines as the highest salary paid by the Chief Justice of the Council who does not even reach the highest salary. And when we talk about the enormous rise in court salaries, let me reiterate that this is a fraud and that it is a manipulation. More than 800 judges will be paid for only one salary grade, without those extras for increased work volume and regular work performance, which together can apply about 4%. So they're going to raise their salaries just as much as they're going to lose because of these supplements. They won't win much with that. And if you ask the judges whether they are satisfied with the arrangements that this legislation brings, you will get the answer that they are not satisfied, but that they understand that we are living in the times that they are today. As a result, the representatives of the judges in the negotiations, which were neither simple nor short-term and not at all irresponsible, as they sometimes wish to show themselves, finally agreed that full harmonisation of wages should not be carried out until December next year, and also because of this and, in particular, because we are living in times of severe economic crisis. As a result, by then there is an interim option, which the Minister of Public Administration has already mentioned many times and which follows a completely neutral financial impact on the budget. Everything that was addressed to the promotion of individual classes was obtained from the removal of additives, as well as from the removal of certain management sites that we have abolished. The fact that the judges are infallible - I must say that I have never spoken. I wish the judges were unmistakable. That would be ideal, but we have to be real, everyone who does is wrong. And also for judicial errors, there are procedures by which these errors are to be remedied. That, of course, we must strive and strive to create conditions in which judges will judge quickly, effectively and, above all, fair and fair, we must, of course, have all the time before our eyes, and we must keep staring at it. The wage reform that is back in front of you today is following this objective. Maybe it's not ideal. Maybe the judges would deserve even more pay. The aim that we are pursuing is that Slovenia deserves and must have a judicial apparatus that will be professional, which will be effective, which will judge within a reasonable time and which will judge in particular fair and constitutional terms and laws. In the light of media-exposed events, there are often evil interpretations that would suggest that there is complete justice in some kind of divisive state. I have to deny it! That's not true! The courts are working and the judges are judging by the constitution and the laws. That this work is not always fast enough, but it is an old fact and is a systemic cause. It's not that the judges wouldn't want to work or be lazy or that they'd all be lazy. The judicial system shall have mechanisms to verify whether or not the judges achieve the established criteria and expected objectives. Already today, a representative of the biggest opposition party has talked about the fact that judges are being examined, but these reviews are supposed to be very ineffective. These examinations are not very ineffective. I can tell you an example -- you said, "Tell me at least one example." There were 14 on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Seven. 2006 published a press release stating a specific case in which the District Court lost a permanent, so-called permanent, judicial mandate and lost its job. At that time, the Ministry also noted that there are effective mechanisms within the judiciary that allow judges, when they fail to achieve the expected results, to be properly sanctioned. These systems are working, these systems are working. It is true, however, that there is always room for improvement in such a large system as is justice, and we are looking forward to these improvements. The government understands that wage reform is the first step towards achieving better effects in the area of justice, the first and also a very necessary step. Indeed it does not come at a pleasant time, at a time of crisis, but, as I have already said, the government has not been able to choose for itself at this time, nor has it had a choice to wait for better times - because of the deadline that has been set. As I have already said, within these options we have taken into account the macroeconomic situation in which we are, and in this regard we have reached an agreement with the representatives of the judiciary. It is because of everything in the government that we are assessing - and so today is the position of the Government, which has been officially transmitted to the National Assembly - that by retaining the two laws that are before you today, there would be unconstitutional consequences. For this reason, we appeal to you to consider this in your decision and to leave it to the Constitutional Court to verify and assess whether such consequences would indeed occur. Constitution is not just an empty word; it is the foundation of every democratic society. And that the Constitutional Court's ruling on a referendum question as to whether or not it could have an anti-constitutional effect should not be disputed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Franci Kek has the word - he's gone. Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I have recently read the study by Dr. Urban Vehovar of the Court of Justice in Slovenia, and this book also summarizes an interview with one of the Slovenian judges, which says that the judge's salary is acceptable according to the Slovenian average, but the judge adds that the court's salary is not acceptable according to the work of Members who receive payment for all meetings and commissions. That's what the judge who interviewed Vehovar for his doctoral dissertation says. Of course, I ask which Member has a paid meeting paid for by each additional committee and committee. The judge who made this statement can be either a great liar or a complete misunderstanding. One and the other is possible and one and the other is very bad. The Slovenian justice system is certainly in line with European criteria. Look, there are two million of us, and we have a thousand judges. Slovenia is an absolute European recorder for the number of judges per population. We have 55 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. By comparison, Austria has 22, Britain has only 3 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. What we hear many times is - one of the reasons is this - that judges deal with routine and administrative tasks. There are some estimates that the judge spends about 70% of his time on such routine tasks. It is therefore imperative to reduce the number of judges on one hand and to increase the number of assistants or relevant technical and administrative workers. But the thing is, these workers are paid worse than the judges. The comparison can also be very graphic: it is like a doctor of science doing the work of a secretary, but of course he would be paid by his academic title, which he wears, not for the work he does. We must also ask ourselves why the judiciary is at such a low level of reputation in the Slovenian space. I think that at least because of us Members, even though we often hear these kinds of revelations. This low reputation of the Slovenian judiciary is due to the fact that they do not carry out their constitutional task, this is a decision without delay. We hear them, Slovenian judges, fighting for wages, strike, but we don't hear them fighting for the reputation of the profession, for a faster and fairer trial. Of course, some of the reasons apply to all of us Slovenians, who like to justify ourselves. If there are 700 to 800 thousand cases in court, and given that at least two people are involved in each case, then the whole of Slovenia is brought to justice among itself, which means that we all have some experience with the Slovenian judiciary and that all Slovenians can also formulate their opinions with great certainty on the judiciary and judges. Of course, there is no illusion that Slovenians can be satisfied with the Slovenian judicial system and the Slovenian judiciary. Here I would also quote Mr Aleš Butalo, who wrote, years ago, when he was a deputy Ombudsman, in the case law of the Court of Justice and the judiciary in internal and external relations, among other things: "The number of judicial proceedings is increasing, which means more and more contacts between individuals with the judiciary. As a result, people are increasingly aware of the importance of acting or deciding a judge. In foreign literature, I have found some reasons to justify even external control over the work of judges or courts." Where are these reasons mentioned by Butala? "The growing size and complexity of the court branch. The poor professional and personal qualifications of certain judges. Arrogant, bloated, oblivious to many judges. The fact that the withdrawal of a judicial function is rarely used. The bodies established within the Court itself to resolve complaints by lawyers and witnesses are often ineffective." End of quote. Today there has been several mentions of documentary on TV Slovenia by Tanja Gobzek The Fatal Mistake and I hope that those who cook the Slovenian judiciary in the clouds have also seen this documentary. The man has been imprisoned for eight years as a result of injustice, his family destroyed, his defence is willing to pay him a total of 150 000 euros in compensation. The investigating judge, who was the first in this chain or one of the first in this chain to make this fatal mistake, is not prepared to apologize or admit a mistake. In some ways, the former Minister of Justice, the Minister of Sturm, who apologized on behalf of the State for this judicial error or break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I must say that we are probably all alone in this Chamber, that we deserve the Slovenians and Slovenians a timely, effective and, above all, a lawful and fair trial. In life, it is customary for honest work to receive a fair payment. This story, however, is upside down, regrettably because of past mistakes, when we now regulate the payment first, so that we will then demand honest work. I am sure that this law, which I myself think does not have to be dealt with in a referendum, is linked in whole to a court law which, of course, has a lot of these matters that people most disturb, is intended to arrange for us then to have a coherent whole, which in the past should ensure a better situation than we have now. .................................................. More than once, it has been mentioned that the salaries of the judiciary are not as quoted by some because they are malicious quotations that do not correspond to the actual state of affairs. Whoever read the Saturday annex of the Journal, and we have also checked it in practice today, sees that the judge has a beginner at the age of 30 with a judicial examination, with three years of practice of EUR 950 net salary, and that, by law below, this salary should be comparable to that of Parliament. Comparing the salaries of judges with salaries in the labour-intensive sectors is certainly not something that could last in 2009 given the effort in terms of education. However, I agree that the wages of those who live in this country are at least 200 to 300 euros too low. If, after 18 years of practice, a judge who regularly and qualitatively does his job does not earn EUR 2,000, then it will be difficult for you to convince me that we are talking and voting on abnormal wages. Today, it has also been said that Slovenia is a country where people rule, which needs to be asked for an opinion. If we, the 90 of us, do not know how to decide this important matter properly, then the people have the right to ask themselves, not what is the case with the salaries, but whether they have chosen the right Members and Members. For if every day we ask the people for every matter, because it has authority, then we do not need Parliament. However, every four years, the people are usually given power, to some in a position, to others in opposition, especially because they expect to be able to make a decision on such matters as this. I think today is our best decision if we leave a dilemma to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has already reminded us twice in this matter that we have a certain debt, that we need to fix certain things, and that is what we are doing now. The truth is that in Slovenia there are many judges according to the number of inhabitants. We are also very disturbed in the coalition by the fact that waiting lines in the courts and the fate of the cases are so great. On the other hand, we must also consider whether the Slovenians really have become a people of justice and obviously, as in Parliament, we have little in our daily lives to agree on. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice is doing well and is making great efforts to make a number of arrangements through arbitration procedures. That the quota of money to be spent by judges by 2010 is set, frozen, that we have a goal in this country to reduce the number of judges on a normal path over the years by a hundred and more, and in particular that the law in anchors applies certain principles that must give results and give them also across Europe, with us comparable countries, that is, above all, the greater responsibility of the President of the Court, the more established management approach, in order to be able to judge quickly and qualitatively through effective procedures, in order to finally get the annual work plans of the Court, and that time standards will finally be introduced for the trials. And if today we can talk about district judges, but if we compare the districts across Slovenia among ourselves, we see that in certain district courts the judges have no work, that there are no waiting lines there, especially in larger centres, species are abnormal, that with the principle of so-called district courts and the redistribution of judges we can achieve better, quality, especially faster and affordable results. I must say, we are largely prisoners of history. Minister Sturm and Minister Virant tried. They knew there was something wrong with this system, but I'm afraid that with this Lukendo, with which we've come to such wages as you're mentioning, we've only misjudged this fire and, above all, we've just thrown in an extra fire, that the situation is even worse today, no sooner is to be judged. The payments made by some judges are abnormal, and no one forgets to say that, of course, because of the rapid process of the judgments, it is later shown that in certain cases more than half of the judgments in higher and higher courts fall. This means that we have planned the story in the previous term in the wrong direction, and I think that this is a matter that we need to discuss and agree on in Parliament rather than bring people to a referendum that would, of course, cost around €4 million to €5 million. What does that mean, converted into court wages, and we can think about it. And I think that today it is necessary to decide, wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling and, like this court, which is one of the independent pillars of power, decide and then act on it. Of course, I want to decide this issue today, not leave it to people who probably know less about it than we do today who are arguing about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u142	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today I have repeatedly listened to this main argument by the candidates of the referendum on judicial salaries and this was 'the area has a people'. If any of you ever took this blue book into your hands again, article 3 would read it to the end, especially the one you quoted. In Slovenia, the power of the people, citizens and citizens is exercised directly and through elections based on the principle of the division of power into legislation, executive and judicial. So those who read the "instant constitution" sometimes read some article to the end, and you'll see that the story has a little bit more dimensions and wages. So we would impose this important decision, which we do not know how to resolve, on this problem ourselves, on the people, as my colleague Sayovic said earlier. And today such good parables have been used, about fruit bowls with strawberries, and about the fact that the sour apple on our menu is just coming, and I think the bone will end up stuck in our throats all together, not just you or us. And it has already been said today, all the time there are comparisons with workers' salaries, with the salaries of workers in Mura, Gorenje. My friend Saiowice said it before. Let's be honest, let's count that 4 million next to the referendum. However, €4 million is not so small. Today we have this referendum, tomorrow we'll have the next one, in two weeks we'll have the third if we're already speaking demogosically, then let's be demagogic to the end, and let's give that four million euros for the referendum next. [[...]] 4 million euros if someone has not listened or has deliberately overheared it. And the question, or question, was raised, why is the judiciary so low today? Let's add one more question, why is politics so low today? By reputation. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, that is exactly the answer I expected from you. [[...]] What am I trying to say? We place our wages and reputations in the same basket all the time. I would be happy if we would ask each other in this House all day long and answer why our reputation and the reputation of this House are so on the dog? Perhaps it is also because Members of Parliament answer to the other Members of the debate in five tables. Maybe, I don't know, it would be nice if we ever wondered why we had such a low reputation. The mandate-holder commission has last appointed a group to prepare a draft amendment to the law, which will determine what the status or status of Members' rights should be after the expiry of the mandate. I have no doubt that you will decide on this as well for the referendum. Why? Because they don't just do bad things, they don't do bad things, but they don't do anything. Look, this is another question that would apply to the referendum, because, as we say, these people don't do anything for one year or longer. Look, very briefly, today was really explained by the Government, there were arguments, I consider both requests to be legitimate; and the request for a referendum cannot be disputed, it is your decision. I just think that it is unwise to make such an important decision, which politics cannot find agreement, cannot decide, to impose on the people. That seems irresponsible to me. And as you say, your request is legitimate, but be honest when you give arguments, be consistent with the arguments. Do not give an argument for the salary of the worker in Gorenje or Mura, because then also tell how much this referendum will cost. Four million euros. It is right that we are honest when you talk about it and when you argue, argue with arguments. Demagogia has never been argued before.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u144	There can't be a replica, Mr Jerovšek, because you haven't discussed it. You know, it's in the Rules of Procedure, a very old thing. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Mr State Secretary, also Madam Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President and here present colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is quite similar as it is several times in one year. I have already expressed my thoughts on the fact that I thought that only sometimes the debate of some is so pessimistic, so black-sighted, so negative. In the end, I realized that, obviously, the problem is not only in the debate, but that sometimes and often the problem is within us, in our character, in what way, when we look at a matter, or in what way, and how we discuss it. As already mentioned by colleague Melita Župevc, I have also specifically marked the fact, as a member of the Committee on Finance, that this is an important financial issue which some of my colleagues have not pointed out in the debate, whether or not to spend additionally, I am sorry to put it that way, but unfortunately, it has this feeling here to spend an additional EUR 4 million for the referendum, if we can trust the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Opinion. I believe that there is no dilemma here at all, and there is no doubt that at this time of economic and financial crisis anyone would discuss anything else. More than that, as I was changing my colleague on the Committee on Internal Policy, I could not believe my ears, what I heard, that somehow the truth, as has been said today, is that we bring ourselves to a level of debate in the National Assembly, at board meetings at such an extremely low level that someone, I think, the people who debated are highly educated people, or even more, say to the ministers or to the secretary of state that they lie that their words are lies and all the other kind of inappropriate debates. I also believe that the people who listen to us, including all those who are representatives of the judicial branch of power, are certainly in some way threatened. When I read in one of the articles this morning an interesting Indian river that says, "Don't talk or judge a neighbor if you haven't walked at least one mile in his shoes." When I listened to the debates, I did, and I was able to learn and check whether maybe anyone here was in these shoes of a judge, which one of us here, members of the National Assembly, was perhaps one of the Members or Members, so as not to offend anyone, but somehow, as far as I checked, none of us was a judge in court. There could have been a judge anywhere else, a sports judge or whatever, I'm not arguing here, but none of us have tried these shoes, I don't think. Therefore, let us be right here, and as colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler put it well, it is a serious profession, it is a serious profession, and also all the matters that have been handed down today by fellow discussors, or as Mr State Secretary Mr Boštjan Škrlec said, "Slovenia must have a professional, effective and fair judiciary and judges who will judge within a reasonable time." Therefore, from all the debate, I would like to reiterate that this, some sort of conviction, if we are just talking about the judiciary, that the complete judiciary is in awe, that this is not true and that this is not true and that it is not right that now, somehow after the new year of the new government, it is a new parliamentary call, suddenly everything is in disarray. Everything's bad, everything's negative, nothing's good, nobody's doing good. It was even said that the debate was such, due to some kind of injustice, not a good government. Don't complain like that. Let's be right, let's help. I have already said this several times, and I will say this again today, and let us here support what voters and voters expect us to do, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to do our utmost to help those people who are on the verge of surviving today. We are also helping to avoid spending an additional EUR 4 million on the referendum call for a referendum. But here too, not only do we speak, but we also listen well and hear what has been said. I think that today again, last time, the Minister of Public Administration spoke about this, very clearly and decisively, today, Mr Secretary of State and Madam Secretary of State, and also at the Committee's meeting it was made clear that there was no further use of the funds to raise wages. On harmonising this imbalance, this will only be realised and harmonised in December of the following year. And so on, I don't repeat myself. Therefore, I will certainly support the proposal, which will be for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So, for the sake of having a professional, efficient and fair judiciary that will be judged within a reasonable time frame, I am also thinking here that for sure it will be in the best interest of all of this. This is what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. No, he's canceling. Vito Rojej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps my current debate will be a little more fragmented, of course, as was the presentation of the opinion of the Group of Members, but some uncertainties or doubts have already been answered by the fellow Members. I might begin by explaining that, in the opinion of the Group of Members, I mentioned that we had put a decision into the procedure of the Coalition's Group of Members, I was talking about a decision that we had not tabled in the plenary and we put it in the parliamentary procedure. In short, on the board. As a result, Mr Gorenak, as Chairman of the Committee, who is also in a paid and paid grade, presented this opinion, which was the opinion of the Committee. I would also like to explain, in these procedural explanations, that, of course, my colleague Jelinčič did not read the material well for this meeting when he claimed that on the 63rd pages, as members of the coalition, we justified the correctness of this decision. Together, in these 63rd pages, there is also somewhere one letter with his signature, which is at least half of what he weighed in hand, the fruit of his parliamentary group and the reasons why he himself would like to convene this referendum. But I would like to explain this in particular because I think this is an illustrative example of how this referendum initiative is supported by arguments. Furthermore, I would like to go to the number of judges, which is so high with us compared to Germany, let's say to the number of inhabitants, and of course also to say when this number has increased to this limit. We are probably Slovenians more of a justice nation, so it probably seemed reasonable for the previous government to sign up a lot of new cities, these calls, and so this number has grown slightly. And now the new government is holding back the appointment of new judges, trying to reach an effective judicial system in other ways, and, of course, we can hope that this number of judges per capita will gradually decrease in our case. Among the achievements to say in the notes, the previous government, was the former Minister of Justice, Mr Marolt, who was supposed to make a great deal of effort as a bankruptcy manager to get his fellow residents to a fair, not some super-proportional payment. Of course, it is likely that it is true and possible, but at the same time it is not possible to say that for almost 100 people alone, the "office" of employment at the Ministry of Justice itself has increased, as it was one performer, if not already the contracting authority. If we are talking about some general mass of wages in the public sector, I also think that its role would be difficult to label as purely and exclusively positive. In his presentation of the opinion of the SDS Group, colleague Gorenak referred to a hypothetical case and wished to illustrate the comicity of the situation or the inadmissibility of the situation when judicial officials sue the country for the difference in unpaid wages. I wonder, of course, about this Parliament, and I will say, let's say in a hypothetical situation, just as you have borrowed a colleague from Jelinčič, is it correct to say that on the rights of judges, on their status, hypothetically speaking, let's say Member Jelinčič, who for example, hypothetically speaking, had poor experience with these judges, hypothetically speaking, and perhaps, for example, was hypothetical in the 1970s, for example, closed for two years, hypothetically, because of, say, the organizations of Graba for the sake of, say, two old Turkish guns from, say, the National Museum. I speak hypothetically. Can we believe that he will now be able to make the right, unemotional decision in this situation, and will not in short make any mistakes? It's just as hard. I do not wish to deny that a lot of the situation in the judiciary can be questionable, and that there is such a large system as Mr State Secretary has already said, always that in such a large system there is always to improve certain things, but many of these things are set out in the Slovenian Constitution, and I agree, as has been said by the proponents, that the constitution is not eternal, that of course there is a possible debate on how to upgrade it, improve it and change it. However, I am convinced that the referendum is not a means to change this constitution. This has already been mentioned here and it has been correctly established that it takes 2/3 of the majority to do so. And I am sure that it is to be achieved, of course, with appropriate arguments, with debate, after all the procedures that are intended for this, not quickly, not on the chorus, but with soundness of mind and soundness of mind. If better solutions are found for the justice system, for all the other things governed by our constitution, it will also be possible to find a two-thirds majority for this. I think that efforts to improve the justice system would be more likely to focus on such changes than on constant threats, calls for new referendums, whose purpose I fear is not to improve this part of the government, but, above all, one source of unrest and a permanent state of crisis in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u148	Thank you. He asked Dr. Vinko Gorenak for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. In terms of the replica, of course, two explained to Mr. Roger. The fact that I am acting as a motioner, you need to know, when we discussed the same matter, the same Members, the same constitution and the same laws, is the same parliamentary group, which is mine, submitted a referendum on the legal tariffs. He ran exactly the same procedures, the committee discussed this, received a coalition request to stop the referendum or a constitutional opinion. And then, under the same laws, the same constitution and the same Members was proposed by Mr Saiovic. I don't know what logic you made me proposer today. So I'm talking about the coalition's abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I couldn't say anything else. And I need to give you another explanation. I was also very concerned whether Mr Marolt has any involvement in the creation of so-called insolvency law or under domestic bankruptcy legislation. In fact, the minister has often claimed that the situation is simply such that he was preparing this law for his fellow residents because he is a bankruptcy administrator. I was very concerned if we had any cowardly eggs in the government of Janez Janša, so I asked Minister Zalar a question and I am pleased to inform you that Minister Zalar answered in writing and you can get it on the portal or that Robert Marolt, former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, was never, anywhere and never in the Republic of Slovenia, was a bankruptcy manager and earned EUR 0. So I'd like to ask that these flooding around him stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Rozje won't work, it's a replica of the replica. Direct. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Mr. Anderlich, I don't remember giving you my word, I really don't. [[....]] Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I must say right away, my opinion is that the work of judges is certainly difficult and responsible, but there are also judges among judges who work more and better and those who work less and less quality. And that's a fact and there's no escaping it. After today's debate, one feels that we are listening to the coalition, either as an advocate of judges or as lawyers, as judges, and as an opposition, we are actually defending the rights of citizens and citizens. I will say so, no need to read judges, certainly they will know, and so far they are still, to take care of themselves. So there's no need for that. But we can be concerned about everything that is going on. On 22 September, the Coalition adopted certain legislation regulating these salaries. And what happened to that? This has resulted in the collapse, in my opinion, of social peace in the public sector, but also, if you say so, it does not belong to the public sector. And I say, they belong to the public sector when it suits them, but when it doesn't suit them, and then they're officials, and that's the same thing as before, that's a fact. The Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs herself, said at that meeting when we decided on these amendments to the law on judicial salaries, and I will now quote what she said: "Inadmissible, unfair to working in Mura, to working in Gorenje would be if the current government raised salaries for judges in the crisis year 2009 and crisis 2010." That's the end of the quote. That's a fact. You can read it in a magnetogram, and I absolutely agree with it myself. Of course I agree. But I wonder what's gonna happen then, after all these years, when this payload gets loose, these pay raises. Given the state of the situation as it is in Slovenia and in my opinion it is catastrophic, say as you wish, but the fact is, the type of forgiveness, the freezing of pensions, the freezing of wage cuts in the public sector, there is no strategy, there is an increase in excise duties on oil derivatives, general dissatisfaction is spreading throughout the country. I'm sure you all agree with me, and there's nothing to show that things are about to change, that things are going to get better. What are the court's backlogs? Are they, or aren't they? The fact is, they are. There are judicial backlogs. The former Minister of Public Administration, Mr Virant, has managed to increase the efficiency of the work of the judges through this Institute of Regular Labour Performance. You're tearing it down now. With the amendment of this legislation, this system is collapsing. In fact, bring down everything good the previous government has done. You're changing the law in order. But I'm afraid I have to say you'd do just fine, but you wouldn't. Earlier, the Secretary of State had said something like this: that this law allows about 800 judges to advance for one pay grade, and they will lose this Virant stimulation. That's what was said. So it's about, in a way, equalizing by salary and what that means. In my opinion, it will be possible to work less, to win, but I will have the same money. Because what he now got, that difference, was stimulation for work. Now you're out of stimulation. It refers quite a bit to the decision of the Constitutional Court today. Look, I read this constitutional decision. The Constitutional Court's decision did not require that the judges' salaries be increased by the percentage that was said here today, i.e. by 28% or more. But it said the situation was settled. I'll say so - last year or two years ago it was settled with Virant's law. It worked out very well, in my opinion. You may have different opinions, but payment by effect is in my opinion the most honest way. Especially because of the backlogs, because this is what is the most angry of Slovenian citizens and citizens. What are you doing? You're setting up a balancing tool without any performance. Now I'm going to touch the referendum, because I think it's very important to say something. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been cited several times. I went to look for her myself so that I could read what a colleague and a colleague had read before. Look, it does say in Article 3. "In Slovenia there is power of the people. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters." How do you explain that to yourself now? What does it mean directly? Just what we want. However, what elections are based on the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial branches means indirect decision-making. This is the difference between us and you, how we perceive the power of the people in Slovenia. The statements made by some coalition members were also in the direction that we should not allow the street to prevail over the Constitutional Court. See, the coalition is or you took power in Slovenia in 2008 and was or were awarded 60% support by citizens and citizens, a complete coalition. But that was in 2008. After one year, in my opinion, you have agreed to 30% of the support of citizens and citizens with the wrong policy. That's what public polls show. Is that true? I don't know, but I made my own opinion. The fact is, you're making a mistake. And the rise in court salaries is one of a number of these mistakes that have recently occurred to this coalition. And now the opposition, which believes her more and more Slovenians, as public polls show, oppose this, but you again with your voting machine and with that majority, on which you will ride all four years, you have run us over. And what's left of the opposition is to ask those people who, after public opinion polls, say that this authority, this government, this coalition don't believe and trust anymore. And that was what led us to ask people what they thought about amending this legislation. Now maybe just a word or two about the costs of this referendum. I believe that by amending this legislation you will spend a lot more money by simply letting go of the extortion of justice. Moreover, First Minister Pahor also announced a referendum on the border with Croatia. There would be no need for this referendum to take place if it were to negotiate better and better. So, to talk about the means and put it on the scale, "this referendum is expensive and it's going to be a waste of taxpayer money, no, that's fine, because we're proposing it." That's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u153	This meeting is about some of us trying to say that it is wrong to place responsibility for decisions of the National Assembly, which must be sovereign and responsible, on the electorate, others say that it is wrong to ask the Constitutional Court whether we have decided correctly, because it is the only way to prevent a minor or greater evil. In this case, at least in my opinion, putting this decision on the table would be too much of an evil for the electorate and I am therefore deciding to support the proposal. And there is something else about this thing that I firmly believe we should pay more attention to in the future. The proposal to amend the Referendum Act, which we have been aware of for quite some time, cannot get 2/3 of the majority, so there are, of course, more reasons why this does not happen. We have discussed this in the previous term, and we are likely to do so. For I myself am firmly convinced that giving some things to the referendum is not permissible. Even if you ask the referendum whether you are going to get an answer for paying taxes, of course not. Therefore, modern constitutions or regulations in most countries have defined what is not going on in the referendum, and we too have been ordered by the Constitutional Court to put certain prohibitions into law or to adopt legislation in a way that will address these issues in a way that certain issues are not admissible for decision at the referendum, because there could be difficult remedial consequences for the country. And in this sense, I also understand that the debate on wages, however much I would like them to be higher for all, but even if they were the same, it would sound Bolshevik and somehow in the spirit of how we are all equal, we all have the same needs, and we contribute, how it was already "We contribute as much as we can. We get what we need." That's about it. But, unfortunately, that's not how it works. The Constitutional Court just said, "Take care of this matter." Although I am pleased that an agreement has been reached and that both sides have agreed on how to eliminate this imbalance, how to determine the lowest or highest grade in terms of that. I believe that there have also been some discussions here that this was not the sovereign decision of the Government and the proposals made by the professional public, but that it has come through these negotiations to some compromises, and of course I do not judge whether it is this class or another. But I think it's extremely inappropriate that we always try to talk about everything at every point. At this point in time, all we have on the agenda is a question of whether we support and ask the Constitutional Court whether it meant when it decided that these issues should be settled, as we have arranged, whether it is tolerably arranged, to say so, or appropriate to what it is. I agree, it did not write down the class, it did not write down concrete things, because then it would not be necessary for the government or the social dialogue or the discussion between the partners, as it was between the judges and the government and so on, but would write it down and say so. I am firmly convinced, even though the Constitutional Court thinks so, if judges think, if the universal public thinks that they are the salaries of officials, then the Members, ministers or anyone else, should be comparable to any other profession. They're not! The fact that he is always being abused in public and today I have heard some terrible discussions about how everything is wrong, how much too. And let's let ourselves weigh and so on. These are apples and pears. It's a different entry into the system, it's a different condition, it's a different mandate, and so on and so forth. But obviously the most appropriate thing in Slovenia is that officials are the ones who are responsible for everything. I tell you that if you go to the referendum now and ask whether Members should pay to sit down, now that autumn and winter and snow have come, to pay for the warm day to pay. What he's paying for is why he'd get paid because they're still parasites to this society. It's not right! It is not right that in this way, as on the other hand, to create an illusion that if we reduce or place judges in the lowest ranking, I do not know where, in this social scale and in the functionaries, Members, mayors, I do not know who else in this rank to make the situation better. True, something will be saved, but this worker in Mura, this worker or worker in Gorenje, or anywhere, will not have one cent higher. Because this is not a question of these relations, but it is a question of relations in society on the one hand and of course the market situation in which those in this cruel world of capitalism are found at this time. I am sorry that it is necessary to debate and that the Constitutional Court has forced us to debate today. Obviously, solutions at a time when it was being argued that in a single system of public sector wages, we would actually do something just positive to solve this many problems and that was clearly not the case. [[...]] Judges scolded their rights, if we can say so in another court. Now, I don't know whether it was also appropriate for those judges in the Constitutional Court to discuss this or not, but to discuss it. It forced us to get a retrial. Now I mean, I wouldn't have turned to the Constitutional Court, not the people, if I had the chance. But at this point, at this stage, I have no choice but to give my conscience and my vote for Law 22. 9. I am again questioned in the Constitutional Court. Whether with these arguments and what we have on the table, I hit what's right or wrong. This is a lesser evil than I said before. I don't want him to get, like I said, a feeling of being squeamish and greedy on one side. Today, it is more than obvious that greed and other things are far more than honoring individuals than certain values. In this case, it is certainly not in place to discuss how we are just one social group that wants to jump out on a social scale to reward them with more money. I hope that this is so that efficiency will increase, that results will be measurable and that we will not talk about mass. It pisses me off. It should be said that the change in these wage classes will change and some will increase wages. That's a fact. Barants with numbers, once a mass, pay once to officials in the judiciary, secondly to pay a rookie in justice and so on, do not give the right answer. The real answer is that the Government, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, has, on the basis of discussions with this branch of power, reached solutions that would be such as to address some imbalances, but not, as I understand, to the satisfaction of all, but also some are still dissatisfied. So I would be very grateful if, even in the future, instead of talking about ourselves, we were talking about ourselves when we were talking about what we think about others, we were just talking about ourselves. And I would be grateful to those who speak of officials, Members of Parliament, and I do not know how privileged we are and so on, do not speak in my name. Don't talk because that's not true. Every job, every profession, every branch of power, we value separately, just as it is wrong that we are some professions - I firmly believe that if I talk about the Slovenian Army, for example, some other professions have been given by the pilots among public servants, that I am not talking about health or anything else, and then there are enormous stories. I don't know what it's like with those shifts and all the other stuff, but when I'm done counting, some weird numbers come out, and let's make it hours of the day, let it be days of the month, and then the number at the end of the month, but that's how it is. [[...]] It is true, however, that in Slovenia, which also grieves me, instead of encouraging each other and every social group to compete, to be more successful, to earn more and to go up the ladder, to deal with looking at each other in envelopes and saying, this one has too much, they have too. But all together at this time, let's say, in the welfare society that I thought we were slowly entering it, that we would all be able to survive with dignity, and some would be even better if they were more successful in fulfilling their tasks in terms of the functions they would have, let justice be in any other branch of government. But I would also like much success for those who are on the market and those who are on the market, I would say, guaranteed benefits cannot come because the market does not allow them to do so. I will support the proposal for a decision, because that seems to me the best solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to continue with what my colleague Majda Potrata discussed, among other things, on the question whether it is perhaps some kind of conflict of interest when we listen on behalf of the proposer for today's meeting and this item on the agenda of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we listen to a person who has absolutely no interest in speaking on behalf of the committee which has taken a decision, but who is always speaking in contravention of what the Committee has adopted and who opposes the role of the proposer, the representative of the proposer. I think we should ask ourselves sometimes in the National Assembly whether ours really had to be at such a low level that we could afford to come into conflict with ourselves. I think it would be moral if, at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the person who took on the role of representative of the proposer would reject this role and propose that this work be done today by his Vice-President or Vice-President. This is happening in some cases, and I have had the opportunity, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, to experience this as an alternate member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, when the president said, on this matter I propose that it represent the position of the working body of my Vice-President or someone else, if the Vice-President does not want to talk about it. So here it is, I think it's one of the things that we might be able to open a debate today. In view of the fact that we have heard today that this legislation, which is supposed to be called a referendum, was created because the wife of one of the state officials happens to be a judge, something incredible! So we have adopted a whole series of laws because the wife is one of the state officials of the judge. Those who hope and allow themselves to say so must say that it is indeed beneath any criticism and that I cannot really believe that anyone in the National Assembly can afford such a thing. The second thing I would say is a referendum to be decided by the Constitutional Court whether it is constitutional or not, in fact, by a referendum on the decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, this is not what you proposed, not a referendum on this legislation, but whether the Constitutional Court was right at all to rule that the position of the judiciary in the Law on the salaries of civil servants is contrary to the Constitution. So we're supposed to go to a referendum to vote on whether the Constitutional Court was right or wrong. That's how far the opposition in this country allows itself to go. See, in very similar cases, not in the case of judges, but in the case of minority rights, when the Constitutional Court, we citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, require that Austria, in particular Koroška, comply with, takes into account, implements the decisions of the Austrian Constitutional Court. We are very demanding, very consistent when we demand that a foreign Constitutional Court, that the decision of a foreign constitutional court is taken into account. However, when it comes to taking into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court in our country, of course, we suddenly become more patient about it, or I will say impatient about what the Constitutional Court has ruled. For example, last time we had a similar case concerning the right of Roma to have their own representative in one of the municipal councils in our country. The Constitutional Court ruled that this must be the case, and we listened again to the whole tirade, the hours and the hours about how it was rude, irregular, unfair, and I don't know what else. I think that we have come so far as to allow ourselves to say that the Constitutional Court has decided on the question of judicial salaries for reasons of its own interest. After all, we heard an explanation and an explanation that this was not true. However, I must say that he is doubtful enough and that we should sometimes ask ourselves how far we can go. Last but not least, I think it is necessary to reiterate that citizens and citizens who may now listen to this will know that the salaries of the court will not be raised by the application of this legislation, which is discussed, but will be raised by postponement and that, by 1 December 2010, we will, of course, still have to monitor what is actually going to happen to the salaries of the public servants and, of course, we are also public servants. I must say, in English, the term "civil servant" seems very appropriate. We call ourselves officials or public servants, but I think the term "people's servants" should actually be "civil servants". Because we are aware that we are in the service of the people and in the service of the State and that when doubts arise as to what we must do, we must first ask ourselves what is good for our country and not what is good for us as individuals. Finally, once again, the enforcement of judges' salaries has been postponed until 1 December 2010. By having plenty of time at our disposal for a long time. We are available to see how the recession and economic crisis will take place not only in Slovenia but also in the world. We need to know that the improvements that appear do not necessarily have to be lasting. The macroeconomicists of the whole world warn us that we must be careful about this, and this also applies to ours and the wages of all other public servants, or "people's servants". Don't forget to say anything else. If we constantly spread among people, between citizens and citizens, the belief that the judges are weak, that they are not working, that the backlogs arise only because of theirs, let us say lazyness, thereby destroying them, not only violating their reputation, so let us not only undermine the importance of the judiciary, but rather undermine the reputation and, above all, the stability and stability of the entire state system in this country. For this reason, I think that whether we are satisfied or not satisfied with what the Constitutional Court has ruled, we need to think first of all about the fact that our country is something that we have created together. And by demolishing the fundamental pillars of power in this country, we demolish the country as a whole. Finally, I would like to ask another question that I think is completely rhetorical. What change in the law on judges' salaries, however, would our opposition be this moment after year? I'm sure it's none. Because of this, as soon as 15 millimeters change the salaries of the judges, they would jump right into the air and say, "That's not going to happen." Regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Court ruled on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, acting as the proposer, is the committee that has proposed the adoption of a decision for the Constitutional Court to judge [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u157	Sure. That's why I'm not going to object to this decision in my performance. I will reply to Mrs Pecan later, in the role that I will be a debater during the time of the Group of Members. Now, on behalf of the proposer, only this. Mrs Pečanova, you must understand the situation, you were probably gone before, so let me explain the following. In March and April this year, exactly the same procedure was carried out in the National Assembly. We talked about the Law on Lawyers and we had the same situation, the same Members, the same laws and the same constitution and the same committee of the same Gorenak, who led the committee. That's where it happened - what? At that time, we did quite differently. The proposal was not a committee, but was a proposaler, Mr Saiovic. This seemed perfectly normal to me at the time, logically, because after all, he was a signatory to that, not that I was a proponent. Today it has happened the other way around, I stress, with the same Members, the same laws and the same constitution and the same rules of procedure and committee and the composition of the committee. Despite the fact that the government, the coalition, is sending to the committee, I would say the first team, which I am proud of, I must admit, and I am glad to send the strongest Members. In the end, let me tell you in writing, and I am not obliged to do so, at the time you decided who would be the rapporteur, but then you could decide that I would be the one. But you can expect me to play a double role and go out, and once I come in with a thin tie and once with my present. It wouldn't work, no. I mean, you can understand that, and I will be very correct not to attack the conclusion when I speak on behalf of the proponents. No, I'm not changing my tie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Don't answer from the bench! The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't be that long, because my arguments, why I can't support my proposed proposal against my sitting colleagues, have been spoken or sang so many times today, but of course I'm getting stabbed by two, a big argument for me. First of all, of course, if we were to be serious and if people's advocates were really the right ones, then we could talk in the National Assembly and respect legal standards or, finally, proposals. Secondly, of course, it is a waste of resources where it is not necessary, especially at the time of the recession. I also feel very strongly about how words can be used so softly or notably when it is said that judges can always take care of themselves. I don't know, I don't have this kind of practice, far from it. My argument that I very much agree with the fact that trainees, especially trainees, are getting paid, is particularly in this, and it would be good if some of them would look at what a trainee in court means. This is not everyone, the person who would remember it, but it is young people who reach about 30 years of age who complete their studies, who pass their final state exam and then in, I will say, the years when they create families, they pass their responsible duties and then receive a net salary of EUR 980. Then judge what the evaluation of the work of trainee judges is, after all, the judges who grow up then with each year very, very responsible or review their work into a progressive ladder. These people decide all these disputes that take place or come to our courts. Here it replaces the beginning of a reform or also rationalisation or the responsibility of accepting a public service called a judge. However, with the appropriate reward and responsibility of all of this. The law, the proposal, which we have also adopted, also opens the process of planning the annual plans, reviewing the implementation of the annual plan, which we do not remember, and not many other very, very important individual content of the work, which judges will also have to take into account. Therefore, it seems to me, of course, that the award of basics is worthy of what they are ultimately responsible for, it is appropriate. For all those who listen to us, I must say that we are likely to set a bad example. For me, the work of such a worker in a factory or a judge or a doctor is equally worthy of his knowledge and profession, especially the responsibilities of all of us. That's why it's very difficult to say that you're one of the advocates of the people, and the other one we're just so little. I don't know. I think we are all advocates of the people, because we have all been elected, and we answer them. But it is up to us to know this responsibility and the decisions we make, not least to defend ourselves before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u161	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. I wonder, of course, what is the object of the opposition today, and unfortunately, I cannot go much further than the problem that, even today in the National Assembly, we are monitoring a new attempt to destabilise the government and the country, to take advantage of the crisis for political conversion and to satisfy the naked voice and drive of power through the creation of emergency situations. Let's go a little bit back to history and remember that one of the breakthroughs of the thirties and that in those crucial thirties there was also an economic crisis, many were unemployed, without social security, without security. And in those circumstances, a lucid man remembered the idea of burning parliament. We know this act in history as the burning of the Reichstag. This is followed by dictatorship and millions and millions of dead. I have a strong feeling that the intentions are better, and the script is about the same. Through the economic and social crisis, which is undoubtedly present in this country, a wave of cheap populism will destabilize the country in essence. We're not going to give up on this point. What unites us is the determination to force an impossible situation, a part of this impossible situation is also seen by the consequences of your authority's actions, so that we do not leave the rule of law in order to bring this country out of the crisis and to remedy the tense social situation in this country. We are therefore determined to do so in the manner necessary, with respect for the Constitution and the law, with respect for this institution, which we call Parliament, and with respect for something that is deeply rooted in the Slovenian constitutional order, and this is the principle of the division of power. You know, at the time of your government, a Slovenian political weekly wrote that Slovenian courts exercise their judicial authority with the words "in the name of the people" but that does not mean that the authority of the street. In today's debate, many things can be attracted. I also admit that, with a sour expression at this time, I attach to the need for public servants or officials to increase wages. I don't like doing that. Also because I believe that this is the case between public servants and judges of a kind who abuse trust. A type of person who does not perform his work in accordance with the expectations of the public, in accordance with the rule of law, but simply because we must do so in order to respect the Constitutional Court, the principle of the division of power in that country and in the final stage of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to do so, as the President of the Republic, the President of the Government and the Ministers, so that Members and Members can also swear to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps there would be significantly fewer and significantly fewer attempts in this National Assembly to overturn constitutional order and the rule of law with cheap populism. The requirements for the referendum are legitimate. Through the referendum, people are directly realizing their will. However, such as the actions of Parliament as the highest authority, democratic authorities in that country are limited, limited by the Constitution and laws, so it is necessary to limit this requirement for a referendum on the basis of respect for the same constitution. Therefore, I will support today's request for constitutional review in my conviction that I will also help to prevent you from destabilising the country at a time when cooperation should mark us, because there are challenges to be faced by this country, this nation and this community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Frangež, at times, you have been on the edge or even slightly beyond the comparisons that are correct for the National Assembly, according to my assessment. I did not stop because you stopped doing this, but I will tell you because I am very sad or bitter when opposition colleagues who continue to say what they are intended to do and what the coalition wants to do. Please take note of this. Thank you. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Anton Kampush? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This time, but no, Mr President, because during my Group of Members. I'd like to answer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u164	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] On behalf of the SDS. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u165	However, I would like to respond to some Members who have said some of the facts or half-truths or to the Secretary of State who is not at the moment. It was said that the lawsuits currently being filed, which are currently in proceedings, are the result of the discontent of the judges, but the dissatisfaction of the judges with the previous government, i.e. Janš's government. If that were true, and if the judges were pleased with your government, then they would respect and respect what the Minister wanted and publicly called. The minister publicly called, "Don't press charges." The Vice-President, Mr Potrč, also said on the Committee on Internal Policy that he did not approve of such a system, that judges are pressing charges. But look, the judges don't respect either the minister or the coalition MPs, but they go into lawsuits. This increases from day to day. Therefore, this claim must be rejected. Work performance. It was said that work performance would be abolished, translated into basic wages, accelerated order in the judiciary, better, faster trial and so on. I don't think so. Look what happened. During the time of the previous government, when we introduced this performance when we gave these supplements, i.e. to speed up the resolution of judicial backlogs, despite the sentence, be careful - despite the ruling of the judges, the number of judicial backlogs has rapidly decreased. Some of the lowest courts operate without any backlog. That's why he can't hold it. At the time of the strike, due to greater work performance, many judges have done much more and have saved many judicial backlogs. Now we're going into a state where judges get the same salary, whether they work more or not. Thus, this cannot in any way accelerate the better or better work of judges. I am pleased to hear what I did not hear in the first debate when we considered that all the work performance allowances were actually turning into basic wages. We haven't heard that, and that's progress. That's definitely what you have to say. Again, there was a speech that judges were subject to verification. I am very grateful that the Secretary of State has mentioned a judge who is supposed to lose or have a permanent term; although I do not have a name yet, it will probably be accessible or not, I don't even know that. But I suppose this judge is already a lawyer. I'll even check that out and tell you next time. This means that the system of performance checks, correctness and I do not know what else is ineffective. That's what it means. It doesn't mean anything else. As far as the system of Members is concerned, it is still quite effective. Every four years, up to one half of the Members are expelled. Well, that's not real. The talk was about the EUR 4 million we will spend on the referendum and so on. Yeah, you don't think by today's decision we're gonna make them? No, so by today's decision, you're just asking, do you want to ask the Constitutional Court whether the referendum is yes or no? If the Constitutional Court says yes, the referendum will still go, so you will not prevent any 4 million today. Well, as far as I know, a referendum doesn't cost you $4 million, so look back. Someone was talking about that I was cruelly offended - not using my name, but that I was taking a rather harsh stand against the Minister on the Internal Policy Committee. I don't know who said that anymore. I just replied to the minister who said, "You're cheating, you're lying" and I don't know what it was, and she referred to some of my quotes. Of course, I also told her back that she was lying. Well, it was one-to-one if we're right about this. And that's what I've justified. In fact, she said nothing would increase the amount of money for the judiciary, and the government's paper said it was $5.8 million next year. Probably not if the number of judges were smaller, but that's "if there is, maybe it will or won't." In that context, I answered her, and I just gave her back what she said. Even today, we have heard countless times in this hall, and the court's salaries will not rise. Let's be more precise, the court salaries will rise, and back by 1 July 2009 by 1, 2, whatever, pay grade. Everything else is guaranteed by the adoption and validity of the law for 1. 12. 2009 That's why we can't say they won't get up. They're gonna get up. That is certainly something to be said. There's something else to say, the efficiency will increase, someone said. There is no guarantee that efficiency will increase. Why isn't she here? That is why, in the time before Virant, which you are so troubled by, which introduced work performance allowances, the judges had a payment system that was also fixed. At that time, and especially since 1994, when another Government, in which we did not participate, as I recall, has changed the system of functioning of the judiciary in that country. At that time, there were massive backlogs. So they were created at a time when they were fixed and stable wages. It doesn't work together. In no way does it go together to increase efficiency at the time of the reintroduction of the balance sheet. No, efficiency increased at the time of the sentence when they had work performance allowances, increased work volume and so on. And there's something else that doesn't make any mistake. The magnetogram is perfectly clear. Some of you have been reading to me some street and so on, just like you told me some of this on May 5th in some of my TV statements. I asked myself a rhetorical question about what remains of the people? And I asked myself, street? And I immediately replied: no. I immediately replied no, and I added that there were constitutional mechanisms, and I said how they could change that state. And I didn't say anything else. However, Mr President, after the next speaker, I would like to report for a replica of Gorenak. But then in the role of proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. Here all we have to say is that we have today to deal with this agenda item, which is running very strangely. On the basis of the same requirement and on the basis of the same Articles of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, we have two completely different scenarios within six months to deal with the request for a referendum. Two completely different scenarios. And perhaps such a decision by the leadership of the National Assembly does not contribute to the consolidation and development of parliamentary practice, but rather to the dispersion of parliamentary practice. Not to mention that a decree has also disappeared from the procedure, which has been dealt with and adopted by the mother's working body. With regard to this item of the agenda, it is only necessary to say that any group has some legitimate requirements also under the pay system, including judges having some legitimate requirements, but it is the task of the group concerned to try to regulate these matters in a proportionate manner. By this I mean that I do not object to examining this point in contravention of the decision of the Constitutional Court. I know this has to be dealt with. The Government is the one who has to take the matter in such a way that the measures are proportionate. It is said that by some decision we do not make an extraordinary solution, as we did in this case or as the Government did in this case. As a result, the coalition has also adopted a solution that is disproportionate. As a result, both the state councillors and the request for a referendum were made for both the veto in the State Council. The proposal and the solution proposed by the Government and adopted by this coalition are certainly not proportionate here. It is not proportionate to the request of the Constitutional Court to regulate this area and is not proportionate to the situation in which that country is located. The proposal you're considering, which you've accepted, is an excess. Regrettably, the matter has already been made in such a way that all the criteria of measurement have been dropped. So far, in this pay system, justice has also been designed to measure quality in order to measure efficiency or scope of work. With this wage reform, that is no longer the case. Everything focused only on measuring the presence, I will say, the recorded presence at work, efficiency and quality of the work is no longer. Why the government has decided to make such a solution is another question. Probably not to improve efficiency in court. Flexibility, at pay, she probably stopped everything from getting lost on some average. How, though, will the government resolve the effectiveness of the judiciary? There's probably something that needs to be done in this area. But it appears that this proposal will go in this direction, that part of the cases that are now before the courts will be referred to notaries, notaries. This will reduce the scope of cases belonging to the judiciary. It's just one of the solutions, and it probably happened. The other is the problem with the lawyer. I'm sure some of the cases here will be transferred to the attorney general's office as well. And here there will be another extraordinary solution, changes in tariffs both in the field of lawyering and notary. This system, which you have now somehow set up and conceived, will bring at least two more impressions on this judicial system. This will make it particularly difficult for those who have judicial services, legal services, notary services the most difficult to afford. This is going to be a new leap of excellence. Here all those who find themselves will be affected, which will require bankruptcy payments, labour rights, violations of labour rights and so on. We certainly can't impose a government solution here. Regrettably, too, it is reaffirmed that the words spoken by representatives of the Government are clearly contrary to what the Government is proposing. Someone earlier said nicely that the minister said there would be no change in the salaries of the judiciary. That's exactly what happened. There's a case we can make back there. When the issue of regression was raised for non-employees, the minister said that it was crystal clear that this was an excess, that it did not belong to these Members. But in 2004 she also quietly cashed the regress. But at the time, she didn't understand crystal. And unfortunately, all we can find is that the things the Government proposes not to hold. Words are completely different from actions. A lie, or what is different from a word, is the paradigm of this coalition. The paradigm of this coalition is to say one thing, do another. Proposals, conclusions, laws, solutions are diametric, contrary to what the government says. Not for the first time. Practically with each solution, which is also proposed in the field of taxes, burdens and the like, things are different as they are written. It is precisely because we are assessing that it is wise and necessary for this matter to be examined at the referendum as well, that we have proposed a proposal for an amendment decision to settle the matter in such a way as to call for a referendum. We probably don't just need voters at the time, and we trust them only when the elections are in the National Assembly. These voters may also have wisdom when it comes not only to the election of the National Assembly but also to the assessment of what action those elected to the National Assembly have taken. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] I fear that the matter will lead us to the fact that the elections will no longer be necessary, but you will accept a solution when some mandates are permanent. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I have no doubt that we all have more or less the feeling that all the essential things have been said, but I think it is worth answering for a few reasons. Firstly, I too say that the paradigm of this opposition is to speak half-truths, to deceive, to use only some facts that answer to the opposition, and to silence others, to make accusations that are semi-true and that it is often difficult to discuss and reason with the facts. Such an example is, for example, a debate on whether it is right for a coalition to require a constitutional assessment and whether that means compliance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Constitution or not. Yes, gentlemen, it does. For this reason, when it is decided, it shall be decided either directly or indirectly at the elections or by the division of power. When it comes directly to elections, it is also the National Assembly and all the powers that the National Assembly has. And this is also the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is also in a broader body of the third judicial branch of power. This is a correctional proposal. To talk about whether we want to evaluate people's rights to decide. That's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment or this law has been adopted. It was adopted in 2007, its proposer, also in substance, was Dr. Virant. I have cooperated with him on the content and together, or one of his proposals, was also Article 22, which expressly allowed for the opinion to be asked by the Constitutional Court in cases where a majority of the votes could be considered as a threat or likelihood of non-constitutional solutions. It troubles you - if you do it, spit in your own bowl. And I think it was a good solution, and I welcome it, and I don't think there's anything at stake. You know very well that it would be very easy to have a few quick questions on which to call a referendum and have a referendum that would not have been successfully resolved for the development of democracy, because simply people - citizens and citizens would not consider it comparable to their own position. And regulating the pay at the referendum is, in my mind, such a question. Anyone who thinks he's going to settle his salary with a referendum is going to make a big mistake, and he's going to propose and make decisions later than before. Smart arrangements between the affected need to be made to compare, as far as possible, the existing situation in different branches of government and to settle these matters. I think today may have been under-emphasized that we don't know. The question was, "What would be an acceptable solution for you as an opposition?" It was understated that we were obliged in the coalition, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, to amend and increase the basic salaries of judges. I agree with you as much as anyone can say. Since the Constitutional Court certainly did not say 47, whether 40 is legal or 43, perhaps one or the other. We just had to increase them because it was an explicit request from the Constitutional Court. And you're asking this question. The salaries of judges are constantly compared with that of Members. You are well aware that the pre-amendment ratio was from at least 40 bases to at least 55 basis classes for parliamentary salaries. Now it's 47 to 55 and this relationship has split. But there's still an MP with the lowest salary, salary class 55, a judge with the lowest wage class 40. And for both of us, we all know there aren't many in the system. Let's say it honestly. As far as your claims about the balance sheet and the backlog are concerned. It is true that we have all tried, including Dr. Sturm's minister in the previous term, that with the constant new proposals of the laws - and we are from his area, I would hope to say, we are considering the most laws because every idea came into the legislative process - wanted to reduce the judicial backlogs. Thank you very much, Mr. Vizjak, for coming to disturb the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u170	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u171	When I read the Court's latest report, I found that the backlogs have decreased a lot and that they have decreased overall, I think about 7% on average, that they are still very, very high, that the higher the rate was years ago, and that the court considers this to be an important result. But far from that, even after four years of your rule, I am not saying that you are guilty of understanding each other, but even after four years of your rule, the problem of judicial backlogs is not solved. And it would be good to deal once with the serious question of how comprehensive activity can solve them. I am simply saying that there is a certain percentage of the reasons for this also in certain legislation that we have adopted and which has caused many serious property disputes that arise from year to year: denationalisation, housing law, including victims of war violence. For example, we have passed the Law on Returning Investments in the Telephone Network, which, according to the public defender, not in my opinion, some tens of thousands of new disputes have been caused, although they can be typical. Disputes from working relationships have increased due to the difficult situation faced by companies on the one hand and workers and their unions on the other. So to say that it is only in laziness or inorganization of justice that the backlogs are not saved is not true. You know what, as you speak in the way you speak, then your thoughts are reflected in this direction, even if we are always connecting the issue of the sustainability of the mandate, and if you say that the work of the judge is not comparable to some other professions, then I will not mention the Member's, because at this point the comparability is also controversial. But comparability is disputed because the Member and Judge, the lowest, have only 7, 8 classes of differences, and these 7 times 4 are also 28 percent that Mr Gorenak could use to say what was wrong with salary reform. And let me finish. I think it would be right for us to take a decision to ask the Constitutional Court for an opinion on whether a referendum could have anti-constitutional consequences. If you ask me whether the amendment you tabled is suitable for decision-making, then I must say that I personally think it is not, and I am sure that Mr Tanko is also very well aware of it. This is just as much as if an amendment to the bill to be adopted should be tabled, so that the law is not adopted. The fact that we do not want to adopt the law gives us the opportunity to vote in favour of one bill and the other against one. The same is true of the proposal for a decision that we have proposed. I therefore believe that it is right to proceed with the decision and I expect that we will give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to decide whether the decisions taken at the referendum could have constitutional consequences, i.e. the situation which was explicitly declared by the Constitutional Court in its July decision this year as a situation contrary to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u172	Mr. Tanko, procedurally. But before you begin, first I ask for a procedural proposal and then forward. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dear President! I'm going to design a procedural proposal as I think it's right. Members, we decide for ourselves how we will come to that final debate of the procedural proposal. But first, I'll give you an explanation. Given that the President or Vice-President of the National Assembly, who had the final word on behalf of the SD Group, said that I, too, do not think that this amendment is somehow appropriate and does not stand, I must conclude that it does not. I personally know it's an amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u174	Dear Mr. Tanko, you're discussing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u175	No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u176	and you have not and will not make any procedural proposals. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u177	Of course I'll give it to you, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u178	Procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u179	Sir [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u180	Or I'll have to take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u181	You just do what you think is right, so... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia want a word? Please, Mr. Snitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. In the political debate on judicial salaries, we can quickly see that judges are easy targets. Many people are dissatisfied with the outcome of the proceedings already because, by definition, one party loses. In criminal proceedings, he usually loses anyone who comes into criminal proceedings if he is convicted. That's the perception of the public. Judges are not politicians either, so they are not in these halls, so they are not on the committees and therefore they cannot actively engage in the debate and defend their views with political arguments, because if they do, they are quickly received by the adjective, when they are politicians, that they cannot be independent in their trial and that they are therefore biased. As a representative of the Ministry, which is also responsible for the functioning of the courts and as a non-participating person, I should like to allow myself to take a personal stand against those officials who, according to my personal assessment, are the foundations of the rule of law. The judicial branch of power is the weakest branch of power. It itself has no leverage over the other two branches of power, but on the contrary it does. Both the executive and the legislative branches of the authorities shape the fate of the third branch of power. And this is what we have done in recent days, when we adopted the Public Sector Wage System Act, when we made one very long-term and far-reaching decision: a decision on the value of one branch of power between the other two branches of government. For this decision, I am sure that the Government has done what is responsible, and Parliament has devoted a lot of time to this before taking this decision. And I am also sure that he has made this decision responsibly. Today, this decision is put to the question whether voters and voters in the referendum should speak about it. In previous implementations, I have made an extensive statement of why the Government is convinced that the implementation of the referendum and the possible postponement of the implementation of these laws would result in unconstitutional consequences. On this occasion, however, let me touch on some of the other points that occurred in the last part of the debate. With regard to the indication that the effectiveness of the courts has increased due to this variable part of the salary received by the judges, which amounts to 4% of the salary when it comes to the Lukend project, let me say that the Government is convinced that this is not the main reason for the abolition of the judicial arrears. Why? For a number of reasons. One of them is that the housing organisations and the court have unanimously declared and stand firm in the position that such a way of motivation in the judiciary is simply not effective. The judicial officials, as a rule, do not carry out this mission, and when I speak of their function, I do not randomly refer to the mission, so they do not perform this mission primarily for the sake of money. Today, the rookie judge receives a little more than a thousand euros of net wages. This is information that is repeatedly misused and misinterpreted in the public. They're talking about huge salaries. A rookie judge who judges in all cases of the District Court and judges himself in all cases of the District Court, and regrettably, gentlemen of the opposition types, I do not know the name of the Member who mentioned it, must be able to judge in all these cases alone, so the judge gets €1,100 or €1,200 net salary. The issue of evaluation of judicial salaries is the question of which judges in Slovenia we want. Do we want judges to carry out their task in a responsible manner, in accordance with the moral standards required? And my answer is that we mostly have judges like that. Judges who are judges today are working and carrying out their mission for exactly the kind of payment you have heard a little while ago. Those judges have been waiting for years to negotiate and coordinate with the other branches of the Authority for appropriate placement in this value system. Twice, the Constitutional Court has decided that the cases or attempts to place these valuables have not been in accordance with constitutional principles. We've fixed these relationships this time. So how many have we fixed, let me say that. No judge of the Court of First Instance shall reach even the lowest salary on this proposal, which is before you today. No judge has a higher salary than the highest salary. No judge shall reach the highest salary of any Member or Minister. He can't reach her. It's one class difference between these salaries. We have heard that such placement in the value system of the three branches of government is disproportionate. I cannot agree that it is disproportionate. The difference between the minimum wage of a Member and a Judge is still 7 classes. In the marriage proposal, the arguments why such a difference must exist are given in detail. Today, there were many general evaluations and few arguments in the debates. This difference takes account of these facts that have been highlighted in the debate today - the sustainability of the judicial mandate, of course, this applies something, that is something worth mentioning. But sustainability is necessary and properly evaluated in these 7 classes of differences. It's the responsibility of the judge. There's been a lot of evidence that if internal systems of responsibility are not effective, the discharge of judges is not enough. Judges are not disciplined, to be understood from such indications. Indeed, this government has taken a different approach - we have negotiated and coordinated with the judges. Why? Because we are convinced that the constitutional principle that all three branches of government are equivalent should also be taken into account in the coordination process. And that's why we didn't force ourselves to discipline the third branches of power. In the long run, I'm sure such a decision is the only right one. As I said at the outset, good, quality and independent judiciary is the foundation of the rule of law. And today, when we have listened so many times to the quotations in Article 3 of the Constitution, I should quote Article 2 of the Constitution. Immediately after that article, which says that Slovenia is a democratic republic, Article 2 states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. And there is no state of law without independent and professional judges. And there's no such judge if there's no payment. It goes on for a while and then stops. And if you look at the statistics on the departures of judges from the courts, you'll see that in 2008 more than 50 left. That says something, too. Not all were disciplined in order to leave. The judges were very dissatisfied with the situation they had in the value system. Today we have also heard a lot of disqualifications at the expense of judges speaking. Personally, I don't support a sentence. I was in the justice line when it was an opportunity to take sides with the strikers, and I didn't decide that because I don't think that's appropriate. However, I see the fact that you have pointed out today that the judges during the strike have in fact eliminated the most judicial backlogs and thus tried to argue that this is actually the effectiveness of the existing pay system. Sorry, I have to say I think differently. I see in the fact that the judges have done a great deal during the sentence, confirming that the judges are carrying out their mission responsible, that they have struck a symbolically - with a gesture, and that they have done what their mission requires them to do. It is easy to disqualify, and it is easy by means of populist methods to scold the population against one branch of authority which is not actually able to defend itself properly and which is, by its very nature, such that it must be unpopular in at least one half of the population. But is this the right way? I don't know if it is. If we adhere to the principle of populism, then if we follow what the public opinion requires of us, repression will only have to be stepped up. The media want criminal proceedings with convictions, and the penalties are never too harsh, and let them be even stricter. But in case the court ever dares to forgive anyone, it's already on the verge of disaster. But let me draw your attention to the other side of the medal. On the side of the medal, which was exposed today, but in one completely different context. The question of judicial error is the other side of this medal. Today, we have heard of the case of a man sitting in an innocent prison for years because he was wrongly accused and convicted of murder. It must be said that this happened in the 1970s. During the time of the regime, which we have repeatedly defined by negative values [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u184	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u185	But something else needs to be highlighted. The exoneration judgment was based on the activity of the same court, which today has received so many criticisms. The Supreme Court allowed the reopening of the proceedings, the Prosecutor withdrew the indictment and the Judge, who was then the First Instance Judge, actively sought to reopen the proceedings. The legal system, unfortunately, makes mistakes. That's right. And that's unfortunate. And an apology to this gentleman, who passed an innocent long-term prison sentence, was also confessed by the former Minister of Justice of that time. It is true, however, that we must bear in mind that our role and our task is to create and maintain a judicial system in which there will be as few mistakes as possible. A high-quality judiciary requires a calm environment. Not scoundrel, not populism. This is a serious task, a serious function which I hope the vast majority of today's judges are seriously and responsibly carrying out. For this reason, I think there is no need for us to seek to present some extraordinary situations. We have regular routes, one of these regular routes is also the judgement of the Constitutional Court, which we are deciding today. I therefore hope and hope that you Members will support the Constitutional Court's decision on this referendum initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u187	Mr President, thank you very much for the words, honourable Members and Members. I have just concluded negotiations with the public-sector trade unions on the conclusion of an agreement, once again in 2009, because of the inability of the previous government to implement the payment reform, in August 2008, in a way that, in my view, today's indiscreet, it is unacceptable for the government to reach the public financial position of this country because of its pre-election time. Minister Virant's assessment that salary reform costs €40 million. During the term of office of the previous government, only the first imbalance was eliminated. In December 2008, this government received two: the awareness that the crisis, the awareness that public spending is also growing due to the commitment of the previous government in 2009 and 2010 with a growth of more than 10%. And, to be sure, the previous government has committed itself in a manner that has concluded a collective agreement for the public sector, which in 2010 provides for the definitive elimination of wage imbalances, irrespective of the macroeconomic situation in the country. This is all before the elections, this is all about winning the elections. The savings of public servants from 2004 to 2008 were, as we have calculated, two hundred and forty million euros in 2008 and the salary reform costs five hundred. In the crisis year 2010, the current government, if it does not wish to violate social dialogue, has to ensure that more than 200 million euros are eliminated, while the economy is limping and therefore the third public sector trade union negotiations are already under way. And we got something else December at the table: another mistake by the former government. The decision of the Constitutional Court, which the Government had to start implementing, set a deadline of six months, so by June 2009, we had to abolish the unconstitutional situation of the judicial officials, who, at that time, remember, had been on strike for almost a year, because the former government had ignored them because it did not simply recognise their position as provided for by the Constitution. This decision was at our table at a time of severe crisis, in the negotiations that took place at the time with the public sector unions, where we have already successfully moved the elimination of wage imbalances to 2010 and therefore had an extremely difficult starting point. The Government's starting point in the coordination process with the judges was indisputable from the first to the last day. And this situation is also evident in the novel. In the crisis year 2009 and 2010, even though the anti-constitutional situation, namely for finance, should not have any effect on the state budget. And the amendment adopted by the coalition answered the question of the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation in a financially neutral way. It is extremely important that after six months of agreement with judges, with the judicial officials, the representatives of the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Slovenian Judicial Society and the Slovak Committee of Slovenian Judges and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded on 16 June 2009 that the process of coordination of judicial salaries resulting from the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, i.e. your decisions which were unconstitutional in 2006 and 2008 have been agreed upon. And two. The signatories, so the judges, who, in today's multi-annual monologue, said you reclassified them in a way that most of them did not deserve, agreed that the draft law, i.e. the two novelties you wanted to challenge at the referendum, should be put into the legislative procedure and put in place definitively. 12. 2010 Therefore, due to the financial crisis, due to economic conditions that do not allow any rise in public sector wages, the anti-constitutional situation will be realised in 2011 with the consent of the judiciary. And you wanted to deny it again today. I would like to reiterate my thanks to the understanding of the judicial officials that they respected the situation in this country, despite the fact that, with April 1, 2009, as all officials, we reduced their basic salaries by 4%, i.e. Members, ministers and judges and other judicial officials. These are the only officials, according to the only from the public sector who have a reduced salary by April 2010. And given the agreement that I hope we will be able to reach with the public-sector union for wage policy in 2010, we will also extend the impact of these rules for officials in terms of wage reduction. All the allegations today that the proposed solution would disrupt social peace in this country stand on the assumption of misleading allegations, not just of you, but of my predecessor, Minister Virant, speaking calmly and without any sense of shame in all the media where he performed: The absolute mistake of this government is that in crisis situations it raises the salaries of judges. But no, again, this is also the former Prime Minister, Mr. Janša, said many times, Mr. Gorenak, this is your line where you report that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u188	Comrade Minister, the controversy is no longer possible and I would like to ask that we do not repeat the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u189	The arguments were addressed to the current government. As one of the representatives of the Government who led the coordination that was hard, it is because the novels have no financial implications before 2011. And even then, when we reduce the number of judges by 116, we will not increase the amount of wages for judicial officials, it is worth re-emphasizing. Because we do not want people who are addressed with lies to take this as the truth and report to the judges that they are the only ones who will receive higher wages in this Slovenia during the crisis year. And Mr. Tanko. My moral integrity you introductory I have the opportunity, unfortunately, only now to answer Mr. Tank's eyewitnesses who attributed my immorality to me [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u190	Madam Minister, Mr Tanko no longer has the option of replicas and please take the closing argument. By the way, it has already been put forward by the State Secretary of the Government, so that we can continue our work, as he will have a final argument, if he so wishes, by the proposaler Dr Vinko Gorenak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u191	Mr. Tanko has reported to the current Minister of Public Administration [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u192	Dear colleague, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u193	If you won't let me, I won't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u194	to follow my advice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u195	I can only say that it is a matter of purely misleading and taking integrity at a point where Mr Tanko did not say that this was a severance for my departure from the working relationship for an indefinite period of time in the public service. And that I have been a private lawyer since 2005 and this is pure, pure, pure deception and the moral integrity of an individual. I had to answer that because the silence of the facts is the practice of respected colleagues from the SDS party. Once again, I would like you honourable Members to support today's proposal by Members that the Constitutional Court judge the unconstitutional situation that might have arisen if both novels were rejected at the referendum, because the Government has made great efforts to finally establish a constitutional state, although [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u196	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u197	effects. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u199	Yes, thank you very much. Dear President! I think I had the right to this procedural procedural proposal before. If we are looking at Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, I believe you know him, you should have done so before you gave your word to the Minister. But no matter what, I'm going to make essentially my procedural proposal. In accordance with Article 78, second paragraph, of this event, which took place just before you gave the floor to the representatives of the Government, I request that, in accordance with the second paragraph, I may object to the Member's withdrawal and request that you put it to the vote. My request is based on what is also enshrined in the Constitution, and it is unequivocally stated in Article 9 that freedom of expression and thought is guaranteed. You did not allow the opposition Member to submit a procedural proposal. If you are not gathered, if you are not essentially strong enough to lead this meeting, mentally capable, then suggest that one of the vice-presidents take the lead. That's my suggestion. In fact, we are in the National Assembly when we are discussing the salaries of judges and we are, in fact, a unique country when judges are suing the state. And we're also the only people in the world who are probably the only ones who don't have workers, and citizens don't have the right to say it at the referendum because that's your decision. In short, stupidity and nonsense have been said on your part today so many, even eccentric violations, that I propose in the second part of my procedural proposal to leave the post of leadership and essentially surrender leadership at this moment - you are shown to be unelected, that you do not have the will in fact - one of the vice-presidents. However, I want us to vote on both proposals. As I said, I also have a business basis for this. Thank you so much for understanding and thank you for not interrupting me!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u200	Maybe I should, but I was just wondering how you'd play out a procedural proposal. Of course, I will not put your procedural proposal to the vote. The Member who was deprived of his vote could object to the vote. The opposition shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. And that's it. I will therefore not put your proposals to the vote. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that you did not overlook the fact that you did not wish to give me the floor to propose anything else when you took my word, and I have not been reminded twice, as stated in Article 78(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I must conclude that you have been very eloquent in breach of the Rules of Procedure because you have taken away my word without having previously received or prepared any basis for this. At the same time, I object that you have not taken the floor of the Minister, who has filled all her predecessors, even the previous government without giving a single concrete argument. The former government has left a good legacy. 2007 budget surplus, 2008 something [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u202	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u203	Something very similar. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u204	Peace in the hall! We're expecting a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u205	Above all, the Minister should focus on bringing this government, the minister and this government to an end to the budgetary imbalance that has suddenly arisen in this mandate. He was gone before. I propose, Madam President, that you give a warning to the Minister and that the second time that she is so offended by the MPs of the National Assembly, even though she herself was Vice-President, she is in this house that you take her word. And not just that you're going to take any other action. There is also a measure of removal from the sitting or part of the sitting. In the National Assembly, representatives of the Government are thus unable to discuss with members of the National Assembly. Another respectable colleague, I did nothing to offend you, and I did nothing to discredit you. From 23 October 2004 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u206	Comrade Tanko, first warning, this is not a procedural proposal. That's the first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u207	you have received 54,962,30 euros in parliamentary compensation, you have received 603 euros in regress, although you have recently said that it is crystal clear that this does not belong to the Member. [[...]] At the same time, when you received this flat rate, you served as a lawyer at Mr. Kozinac's office, which is now President of the Bar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u208	Second warning, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much. That'll do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u210	Where's the procedural proposal? Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I, also turn off the microphone, take the floor. And once again, I would warn you that it is extremely unrealistic for someone to protest because, for example, he was deprived of a voice or a day of admonition and at the same time requires me to take away another’s voice or to give a reminder. We're not in a football field where players in red jerseys protest against players in green jerseys because they were screaming or not screaming "fawls". This isn't a football field. Would you like to speak with the motioner, Dr. Vinko Gorenak?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u211	Yes, thank you very much. Now, I don't know, I probably have to ask you what I can say. Nevertheless, I will try to be guided by what the proposer says here. Just one explanation in the proposal's role, I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u212	The proposer is the committee. You're the chairman of the committee. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u213	Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u214	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u215	I'm gonna be fine. Don't worry. I would just like to explain that the judicial backlogs, but you know, with the Lukenda project were planned in 2006, and it makes it very clear there that the judicial backlogs will be eliminated by the end of 2010. Thus this responsibility is somehow divided into two governments, both previous and present governments. In the course of the previous government, as much as it is, I think more than has been said. However, by the end of 2010, we will be able to judge in 2011. Only - I hope that you will not resent me, Mr President, if I explain that the laws, we are now looking at this in any way, but the laws are being passed by the National Assembly, absolutely the National Assembly. There's no one in this country who can still make laws. That law, which was passed in April or May this year, has not only reduced salaries for judicial officials or judges, but has reduced them for all, so it has also reduced them for Members, as you know, as well as for ministers, for the President of the Government and so on. All the officers, so not just one. But the one who is coming today, for the first time, I have heard another marriage coming, and in this case, I am speaking on behalf of the applicants, because Mr Anderlich has protested, and I have seen, and I think he was right, so that everyone can agree. Indeed, the law that is coming, most likely in 2010, which will reduce the salaries of public servants again, including us and everyone else, is the law that the Government can only prepare, it would be very good to make it as it did this year to make it our own - which I thought was right. But, therefore, the government will not lower wages, the government cannot lower wages, wages can be reduced only by law adopted in the National Assembly, and is valid for all officials. So I have to say that it's probably a lapsus, so the government isn't downgrading, but the government can propose a law and nothing else. Now, while I still have a lot of time at my disposal, I could talk for twenty minutes, I have no intention of speaking for twenty minutes, because I really want to explain just one more thing. I have made myself a proposaler, and there are actually four parliamentary groups, and the committee, by a coalition majority, has really confirmed this, i.e. the title of today's agenda item. We had the same situation in April this year, when the situation was different and I respected you, and I understood that I was not the chairman of the committee and the proposer in this role, but, above all, I accepted that this was Mr Sayovic, because I thought this was normal. Therefore, for the complete conclusion of my performance to those who have watched us, let me say that I am not sick, that my health is perfectly fine, mentally and physically. On the contrary, I spoke once as a representative of the SDS, and on the second occasion, I spoke against my will in the role of proposing. That is why I could now take advantage of a possibility and say it, and I will not say it, I could say that I have come to know the error in my role as a proposal and that I am withdrawing the proposal. But that makes no sense, because we know what the result will be. But I just want to warn you that something like this is not going to happen in the future and that the proposer should be the one who really is the proposer, not the one who is designated as the proposer. Can you please? [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u216	Order, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u217	That's why I'm gonna end up at this point. So, my double role was against my will, and so I was talking about the viewers a little confused, but I'm completely conscious and perfectly healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I inform you that you have received an amendment to the SDS, SLS and SNS. I find this amendment irrelevant and incorrect and therefore will not be put to the vote or to the vote. First, it is unfair and illegal under the Law of Referendum and on Human Initiative. In order to clarify this, it is quite clear that, when 30 or more Members are requested, the National Assembly must call a referendum within seven days. This action must be terminated if the Council of State votes to refer the proposal to the Constitutional Court for a referendum on the assessment of the possible unconstitutional consequences arising from the referendum. It is therefore necessary to conclude that there will be no consequences, absolutely without purpose under this law and unnecessary. If the National Assembly had felt that way, I would simply have made no decision on this. Another time. The amendment is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure, because a mirror copy or a picture of a decision which is the subject of a vote is therefore incorrect, because the same effect is achieved by voting against the decision and the same effect as that of the amendment is achieved by this vote against the decision. That is why I will not put this amendment to the vote and to a decision and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko, or an explanation of vote? Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I'll ask you to explain your voice. It is likely that the National Assembly will only decide whether or not to have an anti-constitutional effect. This procedural decision of the working body is not the conclusion of the National Assembly and any decision proposed by the working body at the plenary meeting of the National Assembly may be amended. What anyone thinks about whether or not they would be, is his problem. This will be expressed by vote. However, as I have just said, this amendment cannot be rejected: and I would kindly ask you, honourable President of the National Assembly, as I have been asking you for three days now, on Friday I asked you to attend a college today to quote a bill and a rule of procedure that gives you the basis for such an absolute decision. All proposals, any amendments in the National Assembly should be decided. This amendment, which has been tabled, is not inconsistent with any provision of the Rules of Procedure and with no provision of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. What will arise after an unvoted or unvoted amendment is another matter. This cannot be determined in advance by the President of the National Assembly, what would have to be done if there had been a vote on it. And I ask you to quote me in detail the provision of the law under which this cannot be done, and the provision of the Rules of Procedure, which will make this proposal impossible for you to put to the vote, very briefly and very simply. And as I have been asking for three days now why certain solutions and certain procedures are different from those laid down in the Rules of Procedure and Law, as set out in the present procedure in similar or identical matters, I would also like to hear your unequivocal explanation now. I know this is going to be a problem, because I see you're not listening, Mr. President of the National Assembly, you're focusing more on the discussion with a colleague sitting next to you, which is why it's hard. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u220	Mr. Tanko, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u221	But I would like you, Madam President, to quote specifically so that we can even check with the Group of Members whether what you have said is the basis at all or not. In all these proposals, which you forced as President of the National Assembly and did not put to the vote, the basis for such conduct was not the President or the President of the National Assembly: he did not have: not the manner in which this point was addressed, nor the timing, nor the order of the debaters and so on. I suggest or demand that we do this. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u222	As it is said, the President does not have to explain these articles, but if you want, Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, it is clear if the National Assembly decides on this, whether it will send this proposal to the referendum, that is clear. If he doesn't think so, he doesn't have to make any decisions about it. The amendment, if correctly tabled, may be the subject of a decision. In this case, this amendment is incorrect because it merely mirrors the decision on the proposal for a decision and it is entirely pointless to discuss it. Therefore, gentlemen, without a hint of anger or without a hint of bad news, I tell you that such an amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues in the opposition, is a mockery of the National Assembly; that such an amendment is playing with the National Assembly; that such an amendment is a devaluation of the National Assembly so that, if anyone likes, he can do anything with it. Freedom in this National Assembly must be guaranteed and freedom of speech, but also the rules of procedure as necessary. I will therefore no longer give you any procedural proposal, no procedural proposals in this regard. This is my right and my responsibility. We're moving to the vote. At this point, if you want to predict a break, then I will have to give Please, procedurally, but only in relation to the vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since there have been so many eclectic infringements of the Rules of Procedure, in the Group of Members we have decided to require a 10-minute recess for consultation in accordance with Article 73(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u224	This 10-minute break will be given before the vote. Procedural in relation to the vote, Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I have before me the Law of Referendum and the Human Initiative and Rules of Procedure. I would like you to read me from these two acts, which is why you will not put to the vote what we have proposed. That's all I want. And as chairman, you must be able to read those two paragraphs or two that allow you to make that decision together with Mr Plevel. These two provisions, or none of those matters that you do not wish to carry out, are in this law or in this Rules of Procedure. What you do is abuse of the law, is abuse of the rules of procedure. Just like you set up work in the National Assembly, it won't take long. The picture of the National Assembly is a reflection of the general chaos that is in this country. Mr President, once again, I would like you to state whether this is Article 4, or whether this is Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, whether this is Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, so that we know how this matter is going to proceed and what you are actually proposing. You say something just like you think it's right, but I'd like you to refer to something that you're referring to. This is the basis for decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u226	Mr. Tanko [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's the first warning. [[...]] No, Mr. Tanko, I'm not gonna read your articles because I'm not. [[...]] I've quoted them and I'll tell you again. If the National Choir is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u227	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Mr President, that is not your decision to make. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u228	If the National Assembly assesses that there may be unconstitutional consequences, it shall, by decision, decide that we are to go to the Constitutional Court. And it is quite clear that your amendment is incorrect because it is a mirror image of the proposal of the conclusion. When voting on the draft decision, if you vote against it, of course the result will be the same as that of the amendment. Therefore, it is completely, not only does it not conform to the logic of making amendments, but it is inconsistent with the meaning of life, if I may say so. Once again, I would like to remind you that this is actually the edge where you have to think about respecting and mocking Parliament. Parliament cannot decide anything. Parliament cannot decide anything. Procedurally, Mr. Anderlich, but a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u229	I'm not doing it anyway, Mr. President. But we have encountered a similar situation at that meeting when we have not completed the point referred to as the European Parliament Resolution and so on, and a similar decision has been tabled. Then we went to our mother's working body and then there was that amendment, so we still have an open point, because we moved it to one of the future meetings. I agree with you in a lot of ways, and in this particular case only in this case, that we really have nothing to do with this amendment and that it is not proud of the National Assembly, given how this must be done. But if so, I believe that the qualified majority of those who can decide on this, and that what you want as an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure here, to put to the vote or to propose that your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is correct, which you can do, because you have the appropriate basis for this in the Rules of Procedure - indeed, you explain, but if you want to confirm this proposal, put it to the vote that you have correctly interpreted the Rules of Procedure. However, there is another possibility that you should put to the vote an amendment that I am going to vote on with a heavy heart, but I will reject it if you put it to the vote. On the other hand, I suggest that you take into account at least the first part of the procedural proposal, as this is also in the protection of the authority of the National Assembly, but I have no doubt about the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Anderlich, my decision on this is in fact what it is. However, the situation is somewhat different. The absurdity of this amendment, for example, if voted, is intolerable and cannot be put to the vote. We're moving on to decision-making. Ten minutes' rest. Anybody want to explain their voice? I ask for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u231	We will, of course, reject the decision of the committee in the SDS, because it means simply transferring the ruling coalition. Indeed, there can be counter-constitutional consequences and, above all, counter-development consequences if the amendment of the law is put into effect, as you have formed it in the ruling coalition. In it, you have gone far beyond the framework of the Constitutional Court decision and represents the sovereign political decision of the ruling majority in the National Assembly, which revealed its anti-development policy. In fact, the implementation of this law will in practice mean that all those very large funds intended to eliminate the judicial backlogs that have resulted in the crackdown of the Slovenian judiciary will be poured directly into the basic salary, on the average, by making a balance sheet and thus actually disstimulating people in the process of remedying the judicial backlog. In practice, this means, therefore, for ordinary citizens and citizens and, in particular, a fateful, long-term fate for Slovenia, for small and medium-sized enterprises, the most vital but also the most vulnerable part of the Slovenian economy, the less likely to enforce their constitutional right to judicial protection, the trial within a reasonable time, including the implementation of the judgment delivered. In practice, this will mean only a long-term additional setback for Slovenia, since the fundamental prerequisite for a quality, in the world of an open economy, is also a well-functioning rule of law. In a well-functioning legal country, however, there should not be or should be as few of them as possible. You go in the opposite direction, you will no longer reward the reduction of judicial backlogs, additional knowledge, quality work, but you will reward the one who goes to work. This will affect just the most vital part of Slovenia, the Slovenian economy, as well as all citizens and citizens who will pay for this in the final stage, because every week the European Union punishes us for falling behind in court, but we will pay even worse, because this means less successful work in the Slovenian economy, less revenue in the budget, and you are obviously not worried about this, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u232	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u233	that, under the cover of the implementation of a constitutional decision, you are far from going, since the Constitutional Court has not ordered you to raise wages for seven pay graders, but you are pursuing some of your fundamental political objectives. [[...]] All these are the reasons that in the SDS Group of Members [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We will not support this proposal of your decision and at the same time point to the fundamental fact that the independence of the judiciary protects the Institute [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Grimes. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the representative of the Government. Personally, I think that today's collapse is mainly due to the fact that we do not have the right agenda for today's meeting, and this has led to a fluctuation around the adoption of the agenda and, therefore, this discussion is all afternoon and evening. The fact is that we are not adopting this legislation today, this legislation has already been adopted, and we in the Group of Members, of course, have no reservations or difficulties in trusting in the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is, of course, the decision. However, the agenda for the meeting should be as originally envisaged, and at the time of the meeting, you could adopt a decision, either through a committee or through signatures, which you intend to adopt in one way or another. Thus, because of all these mistakes, it is our assessment, in the entire procedure of today, despite our confidence in the Constitutional Court's decision, because today, I reiterate, we do not adopt the law, nor do we yet know whether the referendum will or will not be, yet we will not vote for this decision in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u236	Thank you very much. In your own name? Please, for your application. The word is Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. I will say first that I will vote against the Committee's decision and I would also like to give my explanation for this vote. Undoubtedly, it is a fact of democracy that Parliament can always change the Constitutional Court's decision to "pull" as it might say. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court can also abolish it, which is permitted by the Constitution. Those who do not understand this understand neither democracy nor the rule of law. Even in the past, when you were in power, the Constitutional Court's decisions were not respected in this way. Some members of the ruling coalition have sometimes even stated that God cannot force them to vote in Parliament as decided by the Constitutional Court. And they were actually right, formally-legally true. Parliament, which asks the Constitutional Court how to decide, does not fulfil its mission, we are Members to decide without asking the Constitutional Court about every matter. It is not a problem to argue and have different views, nor to bluff, as some say, or to fight for the interests of individual groups. The problem is if we don't understand what's going on. Even worse, if those who are lawyers in the National Assembly do not understand it, it is even worse. Thus, we need to ask ourselves why we were chosen, and we must also consider this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u239	Thank you. I will vote against it because I firmly believe that the independence of the judiciary is based on the institutions of a permanent mandate and the absolute immunity that judges have. For this reason, I also point out that the other elements listed today are on the basis of a constitutional assessment. For example, the legal principles of rationality and economics, because in your own mandate alone, there will be additional funds to raise the salaries of judges or judicial officials additionally allocated at least four times more money than the referendum itself, while at the same time all the millions of euros that have been earmarked for the abolition of judicial arrears will be allocated to the net basic salary. All of this merely means that those citizens and citizens who are seeking their right in court, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises that are exposed to the blackmail of the stronger, exposed to financial non-discipline, as well as all issues related to fraud and corruption, which are still, unfortunately, also present in the Slovenian economy, will remain either more slowly resolved and thus perhaps some vital company will go bankrupt and people on the road, in particular something that reduces the development potential of the Slovenian economy in the long term. And all of this is said to be a lower standard, a lower development potential, judicial wages and all the judicial backlogs, including the penalties imposed on us by the European Union, will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers. It would therefore be only fair, and I say that it is also the only constitutionally appropriate for them to be allowed to decide such a law directly and thus express themselves on your policy which you have revealed in this law. And for the last time, I warn you, don't move, this law you've drafted is your policy, your sovereign decision, and it goes far beyond the scope of the Constitutional Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We've concluded with explanations of vote. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll continue at 8:35. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u241	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. The SNS task force requested a 10-minute recess. He wants a word? Please, Mr. Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Given that the coalition is, we see, for a long time, full numbers of members coming to the vote, Members who are never usually here, we will not predict the obstruction and we will vote against this decision. However, I would like to state in this explanation the following: not least, this debate has shown that there is a fear of the will of the people. I don't know why. That's the first one. Secondly, the role of the Constitutional Court is under political question. It seems that the Constitutional Court is being abused for political purposes when it pleases someone. Thirdly, with regard to the consequences of the eventual referendum, tell me, for God's sake, what would these consequences be? Do you already know the outcome in advance, perhaps? What if the people decided to go for it? What would be the consequences? Last but not least, you're predicting something that's not even decided in people's heads. It seems to me, gentlemen in the coalition, that in the last ten months, eleven of you have dealt with incredibly many groups of people: deleted, lawyers, judges, as far as I have heard, the world is already discussing notary service; it is said that in these months we are also awaiting the Notary Act, where they will be granted concessions in some way to be carried out by those who will put a flower in their pockets. Above all, I would rather expect social democrats to deal with economic problems, social problems, so that today these 7.8 hours will be allocated 3,000 to the road of dropped workers from the Mura factory. Aren't they worth that much? But it is 800 judges of beginners or not of beginners, because it does not matter who will have an initial salary of €1,100, 1200, more important than 3,000 workers who will have no salary. For six months, we waited for Mr. Prime Minister to come to Murska Sobota to the Mura factory. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There he lost the wrinkles for 2, 3 hours and left the Mura factory very dishonorably, within a week - bankruptcy, and on the road we have 3,000 workers who were [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-05-SDZ5-Izredna-14.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 26. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
