ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 11th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Miran Györek, Miro Petek, Jožef Jerovšek, Ljubo Germič, Matjaž Zanoškar and Dr Vinko Gorenak from 15.30 p.m. Good morning and good morning to all! We move on to the 26th A-point of the agenda - DEFINITIVE DRAFT DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF STATE FINANCIAL AFFAIRS FOR 2010 AND 2011. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Mag. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Under the Public Finance Act, a decision on the sale of state assets is a mandatory component of the draft budget. The ruling before you shall specify those financial investments for which the Government considers it appropriate to sell in the next period. It should be noted that the current situation in financial markets is such that it is relatively unlikely that in the next two years they can implement the entire asset sales programme. However, we have included in the programme those investments which we believe would be good if sales were to prove to be changing in the financial markets and if there was an opportunity for a relatively favourable sale of one of the financial investments. We must take into account that the process of selling financial investment in accordance with the rules governing the method of sale is a relative debt, and this is also why we have included a large list of investments in the plan. The sale takes place in such a way that for each specific financial investment included in the sales plan, a separate sales plan shall be adopted which clearly sets out the objectives and the method of sale. This is how this programme sets out only the frameworks in which sales are to move. I'd like to warn you about one more. The purchase from the sale of financial investments is the revenue of the budget and may be used under the Public Finance Act solely for the purposes of repayment of the debt and for those purposes explicitly set out in the law on the implementation of the budget, without any specific purpose of spending this purchase in the following year. The Committee on Finance has proposed some additions, some of which have been tabled today. Those who are being invested today, the government supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 16th urgent session. 11. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Decree on the Programme for the Sale of State Assets for 2010 and 2011, submitted to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 80 of the Law on Public Finance for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service. The Service made a comment on Article 3 which provides that transactions may continue in 2010 and 2011 from sales or other forms of disposal of the state’s financial assets which were or started in 2008. The proposed decision was accompanied by amendments to Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council, namely Table A of the List of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia for Sale and Other Facilities in 2010 and 2011, where the purchase is the receipt of the budget, as well as the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Table A and to Chapter Presentation of individual capital investments in the annex to the Decree. In the course of the discussion, in the context of the consideration of the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the elimination of Nafte Lendava d.o.o. As set out in the Annex to the attached decision in the part relating to capital investments for sale, it is further underlined that the proposal for temporary withdrawal from the sales programme is in order to assess the steps to be taken so far with regard to the sale of this investment. With regard to the proposed amendment, the representative of the motion-maker stressed that the Government did not oppose it. In the context of the discussion on the annex to the decree, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which would be used in Table B, is a list of State indirect investments for sale and other availability in 2010 and 2011, where the purchase is not a receipt of the budget, is deleted from the legal person Domek d.o.o. Hražnik and Rudar Senovo d.o.o. These are companies that, among other things, deal with management services with more than a thousand private and foreign apartments. Most of these apartments are rented and therefore due to the crisis as other reasons related to the social component. In principle, the Government did not oppose the proposed removal of both investments from Table B, but it took time to assess this up to today's debate. The amendment of the Article 3 of the proposed decision was also proposed in the debate. On the question of which transactions have already begun and are expected to continue over the next two years, but are not included in the tables in the annex to the proposed decree, the representative of the motion for a decision explained that the sale of Toplarna Ljubljana and Rudar Senovo was under way. The first sale is in the initial stage of a careful financial and legal review and the second is only in preparation. The Committee identified itself to the amendments table A and to the substantively related amendments to Table 1A and to the chapter Presentation of individual capital investments and the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group in Table A and to the chapter Presentation of individual capital investments. The amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3 made the amendment adopted by the Committee to this Article, which proposed deleting the article irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended resolution, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Greetings to Madam Secretary Kamnareva and to the Secretary of State, Mr Ergen, and to the co-workers. Before we go to finance, however, we wish that you are accompanied by positive thoughts today, which accompany the message of the White Pent, and then the money and the finances that we are ending today. Part of the budget packages for 2010 and 2011 is also in line with the Public Finance Act. Surely, at this time and at these times in bad times and in bad times, we have said that in bad times, it is bad for sale and good for sale. I think that this reflection has also been taken into account by the Government, which assesses the proportion of the property that we can sell in real terms, does not go into the process headlessly and not without consideration, but only sells what we, as Slovenes, Slovenians, our economy and this country, can bring added value and positive purchases. The government, in the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, also cites measures, as this sale is intended to be transparent and gradual and should also lead to the withdrawal of the country from the economy. Thus, in addition to major companies, capital investments that are suitable for sale are included in the State's asset sales programme, since it must be possible to sell these assets in the light of the favourable market situation. Although the proposal for a decision on the sale of property does not include resilient sales, we believe that it is right to present our principled position, because in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we firmly believe that the country is not always the best owner. Various international research has often shown that the sale of financial investments is needed mainly because state-owned companies are usually less efficient than private companies, since the country with all the remaining regulation and conduct is giving priority to its companies on the one hand and thus makes true competition impossible. At times, the state is willing and reluctant to interfere with the economic decisions of the companies and personnel - first of all, in the supervisory councils and, consequently, in the administrations. All of this has a negative impact on the whole economy in strategically insignificant companies, which is certainly also the basis for general and necessary social development. In the past, we have often witnessed various non-transparent and, as a result, also uneconomically, perhaps even criminal sales, which are now subject to investigation. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore believe that less efficient state property should be properly sold, in a way that would achieve the best possible effect for taxpayers and consumers. This should certainly be in our national interest, which we do not see in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia - let it be clearly stated from this place - as immoral, perhaps even criminal wealth, including known Taiwanisation, but an important national interest we see through the achievement of general prosperity and the high competitiveness of the economy, which is based primarily on the regulated rule of law. Of course, the sale of financial assets must be accompanied by the main guides, on the one hand the achievement of the optimum purchase, and on the other hand the necessary development of enterprises, which will provide the only sustainable and stable growth of the economy, in particular the preservation and creation of quality jobs. When introducing the procedures for the sale of property, we must be aware that the current situation in capital markets, once again, does not allow optimal purchases to be achieved, so the Government must be particularly careful how it acts in any individual case. However, despite the principle of a sales hold, we believe that the country must maintain either a control or a majority share in strategically important companies, which are crucial for the further economic development of Slovenia. It's a principle or something. A rule we can't get past. However, as the proposal is prepared appropriately, we will follow it when voting at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the Decree on the Sales Programme of the State Treasury for 2010 and 2011, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we also support the amendments tabled by the SD, LDS, DeSUS and Zares. Notwithstanding the fact that the explanations for the individual capital investment in this decree are only indicative, we expect the Government to carefully prepare the relevant professional basis for the preparation of the individual sales programme with the specific objectives of the capital investment. Also, in preparation for each programme, a careful financial, organisational and legal review, an assessment of the assets and the like will be prepared, all as a function of the most cost-effective conduct in the sale of state-owned assets. In short, the sales programme will, however, pursue the objective of achieving the highest possible purchases and thus higher budgetary revenues, but not at all, given that the market situation is still completely unpredictable. We therefore support the direction that it is not necessary for purchases from the sale of these investments to be included in this Decision for any price also subject matter and paid in the budget of this budget period, says 2010 and 2011. Social Democrats support the country's gradual exit from the economy in a transparent way, including in the divestment of the country's financial assets. In doing so, we note that the provision of capital gains and the charging of the budget at the expense of job losses and the uncertain social security of citizens is unacceptable to us. We therefore support the objective that the sale of each country's capital investment should not be the key objective of receiving as much purchase as possible, but should also ensure that the wider macroeconomic interests of the country are ensured through sales, in particular through such sales, a more efficient and competitive economic system so as to preserve jobs. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the amendment defining Article 3 of the decree, since it is a safeguard that sales procedures already under way and started in 2008 and 2009 can continue and, especially, that these procedures are also subject to proper supervision, as the 2008 and 2009 decree expires at the end of this year. We also support the amendment to include in table B the sale of Rudar Senovo, d.o.o. as the purchase of the sale is linked to the closure of RTH Trbovlje. Given that the budget resources are not sufficient to implement the RTH closure programme, part of the funds must also be obtained through the disposal of subsidiaries. In short, in the Group of Social Democrats we will support this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting to the government's representatives! Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! At the same time as the draft budget, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall also submit a proposal for a programme for the sale of state-owned assets for the years for which the budget is to be adopted. In the SDS Group, we support the sale of the business shares of legal persons listed in the Annex, the country's financial assets sales programme in 2010 and 2011. Table A, which is an integral part of the amended proposal for a decree and whose purchase is the receipt of the budget. From the table, the sale of Nafta Lendava’s business share was temporarily withdrawn with the amendment of the Slovenian People’s Party on the parent body, because the sale of the share at this time would be a wrong business move. In Nafta Lendava there is currently the production of chemical products, which are sold mainly on the markets of Austria, Germany, Italy and Hungary. Oil Lendava represents an important economic operator for Pomurje, with great development potential and excellent expertise in the field of chemical technology. The potential buyers would only buy new markets, and the company could later close this buyer, which could again result in loss of quality jobs and thus a major social problem for Pomurje. We agree with the sale of the country's indirect investment shares in Table B, the purchase of which is not the country's or the budget's remuneration. These are Fortuna PIL, d.o.o., Trbovlje and Grateks, d.o.o., Laško. The coalition re-inserted the proposed amendment into table B of the sale of Rudar Senovo, d.o.o., but we in our delegation think that, given the current situation, the sale of the subsidiary Rudar Senovo, whose activity is the management and maintenance of residential facilities, is not appropriate. The company is owned by the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and is not of any interest to the country. In addition, there is a possibility that there will be a sale for speculative transactions. Sales can cause a type of injustice to people who are in these mining apartments as tenants. If the mine has ever tolerated rent payments to tenants by delaying, say, monetary hardships, the new private owner will certainly not tolerate them. The proposal by the amendment to the Committee on the Functioning of the European Union also deleted Article 3 of the draft decree, which provided that sales transactions that were under way or started in 2008 or 2009 could continue in 2010 and 2011. It was not clear which of these transactions had already begun and were to continue in the coming years and were not included in one of the tables in the annex to the proposed decision. Despite the fact that we still have an amendment today on the table of the coalition with which it returns Article 3 to the decree, we still do not have a list of the investments or transactions that are under way and which should continue in the coming years, so we expect this information to be under discussion. Our support for the decree will therefore depend on the vote on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franz Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Dear Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The State has three pairs of fiscal instruments at its disposal: taxation and consumption, borrowing and lending and sales and purchases. This is also reflected in our Public Finance Act, which provides that the Government may decide to purchase shares or shares in an economic society if funds are provided for purchases in the budget and thereby protect national interest. If the public interest in State ownership of shares or shares in the capital of legal persons ceases, the Government may decide to sell shares or shares in capital. It is further specified that the purchase from the sale of capital investments and deposits shall be used only for repayment of debts in the financing account. The Government has drafted the text of the Resolution on the 2010 and 2011 State Assets Sales Programme on the assumptions of economic and social reforms, to increase prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia and the transparent and gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy. Members of the DeSUS will support this motion for a decree. The objective of the tight budget view is to sell capital investments to ensure liquid cash receipts of the budget, and therefore the aim pursued is to maximise budgetary revenue in terms of the highest possible selling price or purchase. We believe that the soundness of public finances does not depend solely on the sale of state property. Selling is not the only goal. While it is necessary to pursue the highest possible selling price, which will be difficult in the context of the crisis and thus budgetary revenues, account must be taken of the achievement of macroeconomic objectives, in particular the achievement of sustainable and stable growth of the economy, the improvement of the quality and capacity of public services and the provision of a more successful and competitive economic system. Members of the DeSUS will be supported by this proposal, as we have already said. However, we expect from the competent authorities a responsible, rational and prudent approach in the management of this property, in line with the key objectives of such availability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Decision lays down a programme for the sale of the financial assets of the country for sale or other forms of disposal in 2010 and 2011. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support measures for the transparent and gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy and for the coordinated privatisation of the country's largest companies. The State must be given the opportunity to sell in the event of a favourable market situation capital investment. However, in companies that are of strategic importance to the State, the share of sales or other availability must be limited so that the country retains decisive influence even after the sale. However, the methods and procedures for the sale of capital investments must be determined by countries to enable them to achieve as much purchase as possible and thus to achieve budgetary revenues and to achieve macroeconomic objectives, in particular in order to achieve sustainable and stable economic growth and to ensure a more successful and competitive economic system. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated that the country in the most important Slovenian companies, banks, insurance companies and infrastructure companies must maintain a majority or controlling share. By this decree, we do not, in our opinion, prejudice, at all, the fact that our amendment was adopted on the home labour body, by which we removed from the list of capital investments for sale Nafta Lendava, a rare but also some important companies from the Pomur region. I believe, given the knowledge of the case, that it is not appropriate to go headlessly into the sale without examining all the steps that have been taken so far. It would be a mistake to sell Nafto Lendava quickly and to buy it from someone who buys the market instead of Nafte Lendava. There's a lot of ideas about the future in the company - let's listen to these ideas so that maybe we don't get Moore again. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party we support the gradual, transparent and clear withdrawal of the country from the economy and we will support the proposed decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	Good day to you all. There was a very high quality debate on the decision on the sale of property and also an amendment adopted by the Committee, which was fully respected, as reflected in the decree. Above all, I am referring to list B, where three entities were subsequently exempted or excluded from the proposed sale, one of which is returned with an amendment, but later on. I still insist on the position prepared by the Slovenian National Party at the presentation on the parent's working body. Initially - to be perfectly clear - the Slovenian National Party does not oppose the sale of state property, this is one of the sources with which the State is financed and, if the State so assesses, we also support such sales, since, last but not least, the sources of income in these times are welcome. For the Slovenian National Party, it has always been an interesting question of how this sale is to be made and of what resources will be allocated. We agree with the provisions of the decree, which are very clear and say that the sale of individual types of capital investments should not be the key objective only of maximum purchase, but also of ensuring the wider macroeconomic interests of the country and of sustained and stable growth of the economy. We absolutely agree with this statement. It's the right thing to do. However, I still haven't received an answer to the question raised at the parent's meeting, and I am still warning my colleagues and colleagues: yes, but there is nowhere to be found that future owners, potential future owners, sold state assets will act in accordance with the decree. The decree is clear, but according to practice, we know well when someone buys something, of course, they're cheap enough, if they can, then they'll sell it right away. But those who work there to get on the road, a fraction of what the decree says goes away. However, I must point out once again that we have also talked a lot about the sale of state property from List B, on which, in addition to the above mentioned decrees, Domex Hrastnik, also the subsidiary of Rudnika Trbovlje-Hrastnik, and Specter, d.o.o., Trbovlje-Hrastnik, also the subsidiary of Rudnika Trbovlje-Hrastnik. Together with my colleague from SDS, we have pointed out that the assets, because here at sale under B, at Table B, are said to be recorded in the decree: the purchase is not a receipt of the budget. Then whose receipt is it supposed to be? In particular, we did not receive the three responses listed below. A piece of the answer is indicated through the amendment that has been tabled and will be decided upon. It is interesting that Specter, in particular or the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, is also the direct 100% owner of Specter, which is a very wealthy company with -1000 apartments. Even the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine itself did not know that Specter was being sold through a decree made by the state. This is what we think, and it still seems strange to me, because the mine is also 100% owned by the country, and I think this communication between the state and the Mine should be. It should absolutely be and the country should tell the Mine or order the State to sell because it does not have enough money for each other. That's very strange. I think the same story happened with Domex and the same story happened with Rudnik Senovo. He's suspicious that way. Even if - well, two of them are excluded, for one we will decide, I will only point out a few; a thousand apartments, today are inhabited by a bunch of people based on non-profit apartments. When someone owns these apartments, the non-profit category will no longer know, they will charge people a profit rent, they will not have money in this crisis situation, and they will be thrown onto the road, or people will go back to the congregations after the subsidy, the municipalities will be overloaded and the money will disappear. So be careful when deciding list B, even at Mineman Sen, where I don't want to get involved, because here are local people who know the situation more than I do. In principle, we will support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree and we are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, we are discussing the amendment to Article 3 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? Mr. Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Member and Members. I'm going to support the decision on the sale of state property myself. I will also decide on the basis of the debate on the amendment tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Why am I saying this? Years ago, in 2007, we submitted a proposal for the sale of state property both in 2007, 2008 to withdraw from the list companies operating not only with apartments in the area of Zasavja but also with business premises. This is about Domex as well as, of course, about Specter. One has a seat in the municipality of Hrastnik, the other has a seat in the municipality of Trbovlje. We have also adopted such a decision in the world of the region and on the basis of the law on the promotion of regional development, we have proposed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the legislation and, of course, also with the rules of law, transfer this property to the local community in terms of development or the sense of increasing the economic power of the local environment. Why am I saying this? In these apartments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Mr Jerič, I will not interrupt you just enough to warn you, I have opened the first amendment, and you are talking about the second and the third. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Only in Hrastnik, if I give you information, Domex owns about six-six-six apartments and manages a few more than nine hundred apartments. What tenants are in these apartments, I will tell you only one information; the Municipality of Hrastnik provides approximately one hundred and fifty subsidies each year from the municipal budget, a total of about one hundred and twenty thousand euros at the annual level. Let me tell you in what law on the financing of municipalities is also a criterion for the municipality to receive part of housing subsidies. There is no such criterion in the financing of congregations! This is said to be a heavy burden for our local community as well as for our neighboring congregation. Why do I object in some way to selling these subsidiaries? I oppose in terms of the social component and also in some way the development component. If we transfer this to local communities, we will increase the economic power of the local environment and the local environment will also operate or co-operate with this housing fund in terms of social functions. I would like the Government to reconsider such sacred regions of the Sava municipalities - not only that I am glad that this has withdrawn from the proposal for a decree on the disposal of state property, but I am confident that, on the basis of the arguments we have presented, they will also find how this property would be transferred to the local community in terms of both development and the increase in the economic power of the local environment. I'll support the ruling. As regards the vote on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3, I will decide before the vote itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Since I also allowed the debate on the second and third amendments, I propose that we discuss it together, especially because so far the comments on the first amendment to connect the sale not yet completed by the previous resolutions have not been possible, so I am opening the time for discussion on all three amendments tabled to the motion for a decree. Please. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that there is a free substantive debate on all decisions on the sale of property, and in my opinion I will absolutely join my colleague, Mr Jerič, and I will complement what he has said because more people know and do more good. In fact, a somewhat broader consideration should be given to the sale of the items listed in sheet B. Simply stated why. Look, if someone, in this case I'm talking about, buys the Seine Mine, the buyer can be anyone, what I've predicted before will happen: the concept of non-profit apartments will disappear. If we take hypothetically that the price of a non-profit apartment or rent for a non-profit apartment, I hypothetically say, 50% lower than the profit price of an apartment, a new owner's measure follows that all apartments will be reclassified to profitable apartments and will automatically earn 50%. However, the problem will be for those who will not be able to pay new fixed rents in different categories and will have the opportunity to move out or apply for subsidies from the local community. In any case, the country will have good intentions - I believe it has a good intention to channel these funds deliberately to a place where it reduces a bad situation - of course, it has a new problem, in fact, it will have it in any case. The congregation will have the largest number, and because of such and other problems, the congregation will already have less money for the investment part of life because it is already 70 percent socially burdened, anyhow, and it will have to get it out of the country; in any case, the state will end up giving more. I have already proposed and said on my parent's working body that, if we succeed, we will actually propose that the company, namely Domex, Specter - would not mind if it were also the Mine of Senovo - be transferred to municipal ownership or, in the worst case, owned by the Housing Fund for the purpose of transparent renting of apartments. Because, not least, you know, we're talking about numbers right now, and if we add it all up, at least I know about Trbovlje, there's 1,000 of them, Domex, Specter has about 600, Vipa 300, and we're talking about 2,000 apartments. And being the owner of 2,000 apartments or a company with 2,000 apartments means being quite a millionaire. And even if you do, and you don't care about people, it's important that you get the rent that suits you as much as possible. At the same time, the government must accept the criticism to help itself. It helps those who are already stuck and have - I know that they have them, they are behind and they already have claws and great interests, how they now value it as much as possible because the crisis, as we see, is also the forecasts of economists that the prices of property will fall for at least two more years or remain at the same level. And then, of course, serve nicely on this account. But to be able to serve them well, we in the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, will allow them, on a proposal from the Government, because we will sell 2,000 apartments or companies, owners of 2,000 apartments. We will do this so that someone else will earn money again in poverty or infirmity. And then it's a shame to say we're not guilty, or five years from now, I don't know, the new government of the old government, who's to blame for this happening. I think and I am sure that my colleague and I have the opportunity because companies are in our municipalities, that the government will listen, and that we will do everything we can to ensure that these two companies that have together, let's say that 1,600 apartments will be transferred to the local community, if not, in agreement with their owner Trbovlje Hrastnik and the country as the owner of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik Mine. That would be fair; fair to the local community and to the people. Finally, I justify my claim by saying recently, Dr Mencinger, who said that it was a pity that the Government did not see that the potential investors and investors in which the state should put themselves were local communities. They build you and make you a country. And it is this contribution to the local community that means the country's contribution to the future, and these contributions will also be fairly returned to the country. In the Slovenian National Party, as I said, we will support the decree. However, I am not sure that we will support the amendment to sell the Senova Mine, the company, despite the explanation that the sale is necessary to obtain the funds that the Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik will use to close the Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik, if there is not enough resources for this closure. If that were true, then perhaps those living in these places would be familiar with this too, but I personally did not feel that there would be any difficulties with regard to the funding provided through the mine closure law. I hope I haven't spoken, and my colleague, we haven't spoken there in three days, and that we have very correctly explained what our goal is: to be careful about these sales, to prevent the suffering of people again, to prevent someone from becoming rich, and to help local communities and people with the transfer of apartments owned by these companies to the local community. I hope that those of you who have listened will think about it and take that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment? Mr. Bogovich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	I asked the secretary of the Group of Members and he does not know why we do not have time to discuss it. Anyway, I'd like to say my point of view here. I'm asking you if I can wait for it to run out if there's time left in the end for me to debate or I can now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	If I want to be consistent with the rules of procedure, I have to wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Then I'll wait and check in later if I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Mrs. Kamnar, do you want a word on behalf of the Government? No, no, no. Anyone else want to go with the amendments? Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I can also say what my colleagues have confirmed in the case of the third company, Rudar Senovo. The sale in which these social dwellings were tried to be protected is more than 60 years of average age of dwellings, and the municipality of Krško was directly trying to arrange for redemption, given that they had sought opportunities within the commission and that the municipality would cooperate in some way, given that it had previously been said that there was no possibility of transferring this property to the municipality. In the very process, when the municipal council also decided, it happened exactly what the colleagues had been alerting them to. I can also say that vulture companies have found themselves, with their claws and their desire for capital, they have obviously seen that in this opportunity, this company can be redeemed, maybe sell some of the premises, some of the apartments, and then get the rest of the apartments out of the non-profits and charge the subsidy, and the municipalities will pay for it. And this sales process is changing, the post-scripts that were pointed out by colleagues from Trbovlje and Hrastnik, where there were two companies left behind, so much more banal in this case that these apartments stopped from working in Rudnik Senovo, and now the money will go to purchase to close the Trbovlje - Hrastnik Mine. In this case, I can say that it is possible that we are passing through here those we know at the local level of the situation, so I will obviously become the subject of some conversations, and I would not want to mix politics here, and obviously those who own this company are also somewhere in one municipality more than 50% of the owners of the municipality and also some other company that was sold from some state property. As a local person, I can say that we will try to do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen to us, that social housing will become the prey of some vulture business, so I will vote that this amendment is not accepted and that, even in the case of miner Senovo with these mines, it happens again, as is happening with Specter and Domnex in Trbów. My colleague's warning is very appropriate, because I think it's going to happen somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. With regard to the amendment to Article 3, I could only ask for clarification, which has already been expressed on the working body. What are these transactions that started in 2008 and 2009. And: Which should we continue in the coming years? I think it's only right that we decide something to know what it is. I also ask if there are any other companies and which companies are listed in Table A or B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already explained on the parent board, there are two financial investments in the sales phase, Total Ljubljana, where the sales process is in the company assessment phase, and Rudar Senovo, where the sales commission is established, which means the first stage of the sales process. If you allow me, speaking of which, with regard to this investment, which has also now been largely debated and which is also subject to the second and third amendments tabled. The investment is indirect, meaning that the State has no direct impact on whether or not this investment will be sold. Neither is the purchase of the revenue of the state budget, but in this particular case the income of the owner, this is the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. The mine has assessed that the recovery and closure programmes established by law are the deadline of 2015 to implement them in a way that will also sell its financial investments and thus ensure that all parts of the closure of the mine are in line with the law-based programme. Nevertheless, in its objectives for the sale of this investment, it has set an upper price level, under which, of course, it cannot go on sale because it would otherwise damage the property of the owner. Given the situation in the markets where it is possible to sell it, it is estimated that our ministry, the finance ministry, is relatively unlikely to reach this limit. However, perhaps in 2011, when the situation is likely to be quite different from what we are facing today. However, I think there's one more thing to explain. It is not possible to transfer to the municipality of this company or to the property of this company without a payment transfer. It is said that the congregation can only buy this investment, but the mine cannot transfer it to the municipality without payment, because it is only an indirect investment of the mine itself, which is owned by the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Look, it is quite clear to me that such indirect investment is difficult for you to know the details, but allow me to say more on this occasion, that we can also see what it would be like, in my opinion, to do the right thing. Look, we've got the same answer that it's not possible to transfer that. Then, given that we were aware that this sale would take place sooner than earlier, this matter was dealt with in the municipal council; in agreement with the mining management, with a committee appointed by the Ministry of Economy and Mines to sell state assets, that the municipality would have the opportunity to buy it back through a direct contract and to offer it. To recapitalise this company later to recapitalise this company with its dwellings, to establish a strong housing company, which will have more than 300 apartments, 500 apartments and 600 apartments, and this company will play housing policy in the municipality and the municipality will own 100% of the company as a whole. We went to the municipal council and in the municipal world the price offered to this company was confirmed; a million and a half were offered. Here we see that a million seven hundred thirty-three is the lower price that is set, and as that negotiation was one and a half million. At the time this debate took place in the municipal council, one of the companies we also closely monitored waited, literally waiting for this business to come to this company and do, as it were, as it were, the butcher's. The sale, which can be sold, in this company is possible to sell some business premises, and even what apartment can be sold will actually be a social bomb in the municipality. When it was trying to enter this business, it was also trying to step in, simply in this place, where in these old apartments spent, tenants also concentrated with the worst social conditions, that the municipality also tried to actively engage in housing policy, that also by building, rebuilding these apartments, by eventually demolishing the oldest, building new blocks in this settlement, also changing some social image in the place. Finally, I can say calmly that the Commission is now deciding, according to my data, that when capital is closely monitored by this debate, I do not know what price it has offered, but obviously a few euros higher price, and now this commission is deciding on a different sale. I think that in such a case it would be necessary to follow the basic purposes. I think that in recent years we have more than convinced ourselves that if we leave in Slovenia housing policy to capital or to someone who will only build an apartment and sell them dearly, or those who will thus escape through the purchases of equity into large companies, we will simply tear down housing policy. The municipality has accepted that it is unlikely that a free transfer will be possible. She offered some price to negotiate about, after all. In view of the fact that a direct share of this company can also be bought back, we can become a business partner. And then we predicted a direct sale at some fair, normal price. By knowing that if the congregation becomes owner, it will pursue completely different objectives than if private capital comes. And I would no longer talk about what is being done so far, nor about how many yachts of this company are "rented" on the Croatian Adriatic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Mr Bogovich, I gave you my word under the assumption that there was a misunderstanding between your application and your record. We have now found that there is no misunderstanding and that the Slovenian People's Party did not report the debate. So allow me to move forward, even if you do answer, I will not give you my word. Anyone else want a word? Ma'am mag. Kamnareva, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Your explanation and debate were, in fact, no different than what I said myself. The fact is that free transfer is not possible and the municipality can be involved in the purchase of this financial investment on the basis of an individual sales programme which has not yet been made in this particular case. If this investment is not on this list, then the municipality cannot enter into ownership of this investment. Just so much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I'll give you time to sign up, then we'll finish this round. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr. Miran Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Just for a little while. On the basis of the Secretary of State's explanation, I will support this amendment. On the basis of these explanations, I believe that Rudar Senovo must be in the sales programme of state-owned assets. However, I agree with the debate by my fellow Member, Mr Franz Bogovic, that the commission to be appointed and to lead the process should try - I think we have all the legal bases for this - to make this sale on the basis of direct sales for the benefit of the local community, both in terms of increasing the economic power of the congregation and in particular for the benefit of the tenants who are in these apartments. This is the only way we will be able to achieve this goal. That is why I will also support this amendment of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda or no later than 2 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2010 and 2011. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to representatives of the Magi government. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary for Complementary Explanation of the Proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Budget Implementation Act, which is a component of the draft budget for the next two years, is very similar to the contents of all existing budget implementation laws and deals with those issues which are already covered by the Public Finance Act itself. Perhaps you will allow me to mention some of the specificities that occur in this Law on the Implementation of the Budget and we have not faced them in the past. The first amendment introduced by law concerns the powers of the Government to redistribute resources within the budget between individual programmes, spending areas and sub-programmes. By means of this law on the implementation of the budget, we are withdrawing these powers from the Government, which means that the Government does not have the opportunity to change the range of resources for individual programmes, sub-programmes and spending areas, which has been the practice so far. In fact, in this way we give greater weight to the decisions of the National Assembly on the content of the budget document itself. Therefore, a number of provisions that have so far been included in the law on the implementation of the budget have been discarded. This decision is also closely linked to the decision on the budgetary structure itself, which is the subject of adoption in the National Assembly this time and does not include budget lines themselves, but ends with sub-programmes and then a development programme plan. The second amendment introduced by the law relates to prepayments, namely that part of prepayments relating to the payment of projects or tasks performed from the European budget. In some cases, the European funds drawback rules are also pre-payments, so we have already made this possibility available in last year or this year's budget implementation law, and we are expanding it this time to allow for pre-payments to the burden of our own participation from the state budget and to specify more precisely the procedures and rules of the pre-payments themselves, which will otherwise be more detailed in the sub-legislative rules. All the other provisions of the Law on the implementation of the budget are standard provisions and certain provisions governing the area of wages are excluded this year, as this is no longer necessary, given that we have an agreement on salaries and an intervention law that replaces those issues which need to be legally agreed for this purpose. Perhaps so much about the very content of the Budget Implementation Act and I suggest you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law is to be treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Vice-President, Council of Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thanks again for saying that. At its urgent meeting on 13 November 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, on the general conclusion that the amendments submitted relate to provisions derogating from existing solutions, forwarded specific comments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 8, 12, 13, 24, 39, 40, 43 and 45. In the context of the additional working material, the Committee also considered the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of public finances, which became known to it as an interested working body. The amendments were tabled by the SDS Group on Articles 22, 33 and 37, the Coalition Group on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 1, 3, 8, 11, 12, 17, 19, 21, 24, 32, 33, 39, 43 and 45, and by the opposition groups on Article 39 of the legislative proposal. The basic objective of the text is to legislate an appropriate basis for the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget. The proposal does not legislate specific principles or basic budgetary principles, but follows them at the same time as other elements provided for by the Public Finance Act. In the manner described, it sets out the extent of the country's indebtedness and permitted guarantees as well as the public sector at national level in a given year. At the same time, it sets out the extent of the obligations that users assume in the current year or are expected to fall into payment in the coming years, as well as some other content for which regulation at the level of annual laws is provided for in the Public Finance Act or other laws. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of that service stated, inter alia, that the proposed amendments of the coalition groups addressed the shortcomings that had been pointed out. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee, at the request of a member of the Committee of Miroslav Klun, adopted an amendment to Article 22, which introduces a fixed payment period of 30 days for investment expenditure or transfers to be paid on a case-by-case basis and any other obligations of the State. Among the amendments of qualified candidates, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups by Articles 1, 3, 8, 11, 12, 17, 19, 21, 24, 32, 33, 39, 43 and 45 of the legislative proposal. In doing so, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 22 and 37 of the legislative proposal. As the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 33 and the amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups to Article 39 made them irrelevant, the Committee did not define them. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the amendments and adopted them together on the basis of the decision adopted on all the articles of the legislative proposal. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State and co-workers from the Ministry of Finance. The Group of Social Democrats will support the adoption of the law on the implementation of budgets for 2010 and 2011. The proposed law does not contain any major technical changes compared to previous laws on the implementation of budgets of previous years and is actually a technical law on how the users of the state budget should use and spend them. Nevertheless, there are some significant changes in the law regarding restrictions on the allocation of spending rights. With the proposal for a law, the power to redistribute spending rights is conferred only in those cases which could seriously jeopardise the implementation of the budget and the prudent use of funds. Such arrangements will prevent the reallocation of rights between sub-programmes, in particular in order to encourage more accurate planning of budgetary consumers in the use of budgetary resources. This will try to avoid irrational spending mainly at the end of the year and will identify the usefulness of certain sub-programmes in terms of rational spending of budgetary resources. It is also much better to monitor the objectives of individual development policies, which is a novelty in this budget. It should also be noted that the financing of advance payments for the European Union earmarked funds introduced in the amendments to the 2008 and 2009 Implementation Act continues. The difference compared to the current provision is that it extends slightly and allows for prepayments to the shares of Slovenian participation. In the area of pre-payments, it is also necessary to mention the fuse because the bill contains the conditions under which the Minister of Finance issues an agreement when it is agreed to a pre-payment of more than EUR 100,000. An extremely important novelty in the law is that the state will pay all bills within 30 days, whether they are investments, investment transfers or the payment of services and goods. In doing so, we have followed the initiatives of the economy, which has been asking the country for many years to reduce its payment deadlines to 30 days, which is what our Member Miroslav Klun has actually tried to do with the amendment and introduced into the law itself, and the Group of Social Democrats has also supported it. This will certainly cause some problems in the state administration, which also in payments from the local community's budget, which also pay at a high rate. In doing so, it should be pointed out that with 1. 1. 2010 reduces the refund on value added tax from 60 and 30 days when export is concerned to 21 days. The state and local communities will have to pay more attention to the liquidity of their cash registers. This measure, which is provided for in the Law on the implementation of the budget, could also appoint a measure which would enable the economy to have a slightly less liquidity situation. We only hope that this will be followed by beneficiaries of projects financed by the State and the local community and will also pay their subcontractors within 30 days. Otherwise, this will have to be further regulated in legislation which lays down the conditions for public procurement. It should also be mentioned that the law also sets the average for municipalities for 2010 and 2011 according to 2009. It is true that this is not entirely consistent with both associations, but, despite the decline in income, it is higher both in 2010 and 2011. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present! In the case of the 2010 and 2011 Budget Implementation Act, so-called Zipra, it is not only a technical act, but an act which has important substantive issues. Let me just mention the one that matters most. It must be one of the most important issues covered by this Act, the extent of the debt and the extent of the State's guarantees. On this segment we record enormous numbers and enormous increases in relation to past years. The extent of the country's debt increases to EUR 3 billion 600 million in 2010 and to EUR 2 billion 800 million in 2011. The volume of guarantees increases to EUR 2 billion 450 million in 2010 and to EUR 2 billion in 2011. Public sector debt at national level is projected at €2 billion in 2010 and €1.2 billion in 2011. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a reduction in this debt from €3 billion 600 to €2 billion, including an appropriate amendment in this part and in the budget. These figures pale as minor differences as to whether it was right that some ten million euros were entered only once in the case of the 2007 closing account, as Janšev's Government has advocated, and in the case of the 2008 closing account, the Pahorje government has also defended whether it would be wrong for the same expenditure to be recorded twice as advocated by the Court of Auditors, both in the Slovenian Compensation Society, where it was paid, and in the case of the State budget. In the case of ZIPRO 2010 and 2011, the figures will lead Slovenia from one of the least indebted countries in the European Union to one of the most indebted countries within a relatively short period of time. If public debt has declined over the period of the Janšev government from 28% to 21.5% of gross domestic product, resulting from publicly available data, including from the memorandum transmitted by the Pahorje government to the 2010 and 2011 budgets, this debt will increase to almost 50% of gross domestic product in the next two years and will reach 32.5% of gross domestic product by the end of this year. Another important substantive issue is the decommissioned resources of the municipalities and the associated height of the average. The agreement has not been reached either with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia or with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, so that this average is determined by virtue of the substantive tasks of the municipalities. An amendment has been tabled here, which would be necessary in order at least to alleviate in some part the extremely difficult situation faced by the municipalities because they have been entrusted with a number of tasks in recent years and in the last year, but no adequate financial resources are now provided for these tasks. Well, we also have an exception to this rule. The exception is Ljubljana. In the procedure we have the Main City Act, which, independently of this provision, increases the proportion of the average, but only for Ljubljana. This not only shows that the non-systemic approach shows that it is a return to the services of those who were strongly supported by Mr Jankovic in the national elections last year, and it is now a matter of payment of these services, unfortunately from public funds. What is to be said should be welcomed by the reduction of payment deadlines to 30 days. Unfortunately, it must be said that this change is too late. It's been missing for at least nine months. You know that this amendment was proposed at the beginning of this year by the opposition, but was not adopted. It was necessary to bring it in at the time. Although this situation will be alleviated to some extent, we feel that this opportunity, which has been delayed, will no longer be possible to recover. And the arguments that were at the time that this could not be accepted are even worse by the government. At that time it was said that if we accept this, we will go over 3% of the deficit, over 3% of GDP. Now you know that we are already strong over 5%, that we will be strong over 5% in 2010 and perhaps under five in 2011, but there is still the will to shorten this payment period. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that another step should be taken towards this move. The deadline for subcontractors is important. For this reason, the amendment proposes that this provision on the 30-day payment deadline be linked not only to the main operators, but also to subcontractors, because it is an essential part of the problem. Despite some good solutions in this law, however, the main problem remains enormous indebtedness, an inadequate share of funding for the municipalities. For this reason, we cannot support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Good-bye, everyone! I was obliged to present as a member of the DeSUS Group its position on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years. I would like to point out that, of course, it is not possible to talk about ZIPRS beyond the budget, as it is said that the Siamese twins and ZIPRS are only allowing the current, smooth implementation of the budget, whatever it is already adopted, and it also lays down certain other important restrictions and competences for individual ministers or the Government. It is also very important for us in the Group of Members that this provision allows for the change of individual items and the realization of some ambitions that we have had and addressed to the Government have not been realized. So let me remind you that in the seventh month, the first month, we sent comments to the Government regarding the unique addition that we were 16. 7. send a written warning regarding the implementation of the provisions of the coalition agreement on the construction of homes for the elderly and that we are 31. 7. equally intervene in writing with regard to the Office of Older Persons. With regard to the implementation of the budget and the law on the implementation of the budget, we believe that we are still open to the possibility that some of our written demands and coalition commitments will be realised and that we will provide the DeSUS Members with our votes in support of this bill. We are also pleased that the amendment to the committee proposed by Mr Miroslav Klun in respect of payment deadlines has been adopted, and I mention that we have not taken decisions directly on the amendments tabled in this law, but that it is clear from our work so far that we are in favour of all that eliminates payment non-discipline and which will also be in line for a long time to reduce the cost of our budget. We therefore support ambitions to reduce payment non-discipline, at this moment in such a large amount of expenditure that has been proposed that the amendment probably cannot be implemented, and in the long term it is indisputable that structural changes will have to take place both in the area of public finances within budgets, municipal and national budgets, as well as in the area of pension or health activities. We are confident that these expenditure will be able to be reduced, but there is also a need to contribute to the revenue side, otherwise in order to reduce payment indiscipline in order to reduce work to a black, grey economy, so that all the benefits we receive from different forms of work will be more evenly burdened, in order to reconsider any change in VAT, in order to re-examine whether we have the most appropriate income legislation or not. And a whole range of other measures have been further debated as to what needs to be done or what can be done, so that payment discipline is more appropriate and that the expenditure scale of budgets is more development-oriented. With these ambitions to enforce the proposals recorded in the coalition agreement so far in 2010, Members of the Parliament Group will support the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. As with the adoption of all budgets so far, this time we have before us a proposal for a law on the implementation of budgets which, according to the nature of the State budget, is necessary for the implementation and implementation of this budget. The law contains the content that is necessary and mandatory under the Public Finance Act. The so-called ZIPRO contains a number of important provisions, such as the scope of the debt, the scope of the guarantees, the debt, the provisions on the reallocation of spending rights, the plans of the development programmes, the payment deadlines and so on. This apparently in some strange sense also became some kind of nadakone. It is by virtue of the provisions of this Law that the proposer allows himself to observe and deny the provisions of other laws. We oppose this in the Slovenian People's Party because we believe that in such cases it is an abuse and not an established legal solution. As a lex specialis, we do things differently that are enshrined in system laws. I am thinking of Article 39 of this Law and setting the average for Slovenian municipalities. It is the determination of the average costs for the performance of the duties of the municipalities which must be carried out by law. Let me stress, for example, the task of providing public services and implementing public programmes in the areas of pre-school education, primary education and sport, primary health care and health insurance, social protection, culture. Why am I exposing this? By acting voluntarily in contravention of the law on the financing of municipalities, the centralist attitude of this government towards local communities and, above all, its inhabitants is very clear. This case is only one in a series of efforts, how individuals, people, specific problems and problems at the micro level, the level of local communities, cut off from the centralist village the envious and self-sufficient political elites and authorities. What else are all attempts to remove any local officials from parliamentary benches intended for? What, then, are the attempts to amend electoral legislation, which, following the proposed resolution of the door to Parliament, would only open the selected political elites or representatives of the largest centres in the region? Why, then, such a lack of interest after the establishment of a second level of local self-government and thereby the decentralisation of our country? In the opposition's parliamentary groups, we have drawn attention to this unacceptable relationship, otherwise we have prepared an amendment to the envisaged solution to the determination of the average. However, since we oppose budget proposals in the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support this accompanying law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, once again. Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague, colleagues! Much has already been said about the law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budget, which we are talking about. The maximum number of words has been given from Articles 33 further to 39, where the scope of the State guarantees, the scope of the debt and the guarantees of public sector legal persons and so on. It is true that we must understand the law which is the basis for the implementation of the budget that is ahead of us, without this law, of course it is impossible to expect the implementation of the budget. However, with all the tolerance, with all the understanding and with all the desire to cooperate and help, the decision is difficult. The decision is difficult because of the content of the articles listed above, and in particular I will touch myself in this case precisely because of the Community's warning on the 39th Article on the average determined in accordance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities. In particular, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has warned us that, on the basis of Article 12 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, the State should reach an agreement with the representative associations of municipalities with which the types and scope and additional tasks are to be foreseen and then everything that follows, i.e. the average. It appears that this agreement at least warns that there is no agreement, and Article 39 of the Budget Implementation Act is clear and says: "If the Government does not reach agreement with representative associations, the average set by the Government shall be included in the draft budget." With all fairness, we can think in a two-way, two-way way. Did not the Government inadvertently conclude an agreement that the average would be as determined by itself, or were the reasons why this agreement could not be reached? Regardless of the fact that so many times already noted, the component of budgetary policy in large part is also local communities, perhaps in the future also regions that are users and also co-creatives of state assets. And saving, but not seeing what the local communities need in their revenue creation, taxes going into the state budget, would be right and good. As it is said in the Slovenian National Party, we understand that the law on the implementation of the budget is necessary because of the budget itself, which is why we do not intend to overthrow it after our conversation, but we do not intend to support it, because, after all the items in the 22nd Article of this Law on the implementation of the budget, there is also something there, although it has been said that something has also been commended, but it is now too late for it, so it is the time of 30 to 60 in certain investments or 30 days in other payments, and because of the content of Article 33 to 39 we cannot make it clear "for". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	Good-bye to all of you again. Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to the secretary and the materials preparers! The proposal for the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that we will vote in favour of this and we will support the proposal for a law on the implementation of budgets for 2010 and 2011. This decision is guided by the simple fact that this law is a technically integral part of the budget package, without which the implementation of the budget would be impossible. As we will support the 2010 and 2011 budget in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will therefore give support to Zippru for the two years mentioned. The Law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years, like all previous measures, legalises solutions for the current and smooth implementation of the budget, meaning that it will operationalise the budget for the next two years. The present law thus sets out the extent of the debt, the permitted guarantees of the State and also the powers of the Government and the Ministry of Finance. It would be worth pointing out that the country's indebtedness will increase in the coming year and will amount to €3.6 billion, and in 2011, we are most pleased to see that we can all go together with a smaller debt of EUR 1 billion. We're all aware that the number is high. However, given the current situation and the state and awareness, we are proud of this that the social state and the implementation of fundamental development projects are the only way to harmonise these two objectives at present. For the purposes of economic instability or deterioration of Zipro's economic movements, it also contains Article 8 which we believe is important to emphasise in it that it sets out measures to balance the budget for the next two years. This means that when the government assesses that the revenue of the budget for more than EUR 40 million and for less than EUR 130 million, the measure of proportionate reduction of spending rights should be applied, in addition to the other measures needed to balance the budget, as set out in Article 40 of the Public Finance Act. This measure shall be applied up to €60 million and the difference of up to € 130 million shall be ensured by additional country indebtedness. As regards the country's indebtedness to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are certainly aware of the dangers posed by such indebtedness. Therefore, on this occasion, we warn and appeal that, as a country, we must prepare as soon as possible the best possible so-called exit strategy for the long-term stabilisation of public finances. As we have pointed out in many talks and talks with the Minister of Finance these days, the Minister and the Ministry certainly are aware of this. This is what the European Commission calls for, and also commits itself to, when it points out that anti-crisis measures will have to be phased out of our lives and our daily lives in the coming or coming years. We therefore certainly support more important structural adjustments in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which will allow for the long-term sustainability of our public finances, and we also call for consideration of additional measures in the area of saving and optimizing the functioning of the whole country. This is a common task for all in the National Assembly, regardless of that political division into coalition and opposition. And the meditation of each of us, or of those who are in office, [[...]] [[End warning sign]] or each of us as citizens and citizens to get as close to each and every day as possible to these reflections in their actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to this article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In addition to what has already been said in the position of the Group of Members, I think a few more words need to be said. The first is that there is a key problem with subcontractors. If this payment period, even if it is 60 days, is still somehow taken into account and respected by the main operators, all others in the chain are the ones most problematic, especially in the last year. This is also pointed out by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to take account of the same deadline as the main contractor in subcontractors. Many entrepreneurs have been listed in my office in the last year and this warning has been given from the mouth of all: payment deadlines are extended to an abnormal 9 months. Nine months! With the main supplier, the contractor, getting paid in 30 or 60 days. If this step had already been taken, then it would be necessary to take this minimal step. For this reason, we propose this amendment, which will allow equal treatment in payment for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I am no longer seeing applications, so I am concluding the debate on Article 22 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 33 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to this article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	The debt that we are about to witness to this year reaches such a dimension that the survival of this country is questionable. The country will continue to bankrupt if this pace that we are now witnessing to him continues. I do not think it is good to allow this to happen, so we propose at least the first step in this direction. We propose that the scope of the 2010 debt should be reduced by reaching those acceptable 3% of gross domestic product. When we discussed whether this could be done or not, it was said that this could not be done at the moment. But it's a 10% cut if I simplify it. Over the past year, many entrepreneurs, many large companies, small, medium, have reduced the cost of significantly more than 10% if they wanted to survive. We believe that this can also be done at the level of public spending or the state budget. Only in this way can long-term stability of public finances be ensured, with appropriate additional measures to encourage public spending. What Zipro predicts, this enormous amount of indebtedness not only leads us to 50% of debt relative to GDP, but also leads us to a situation where the repayment of interest and the repayment of debt will eat up all the accumulation. Two years from now, there won't be anything left to invest. And this is a very dangerous situation. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Mag. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment to Article 33, it is necessary to say that if such an amendment were adopted, this would be in complete disharmony with the draft budget that we have under consideration for 2010. Allow me, however, to explain at the same time the reasons for the amendment to Article 22. The amendment tabled in Article 22 which sends the compulsory payment of subcontractors is, of course, inappropriate in terms of the validity of the law on the implementation of the budget, because it does not oblige those who should pay subcontractors. The Law on the implementation of the budget shall apply to direct budgetary users, not to all others who are bound to fulfil this obligation. Therefore, the Government has already adopted an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which has already been submitted to the National Assembly, and has regulated the relationship between the contractor and the subcontractor there and has made a commitment that contractors are paying subcontractors with a mandatory design contract immediately upon signature of these relations. The same issue is adequately addressed within the meaning of this provision in the Public Procurement Act, where it is a suitable solution, and this is not a suitable solution in the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	I am pleased that the government is slowly summarizing what the opposition is proposing, or the SDS. If that is the case and if this solution is established, then that purpose, which we wanted to achieve, has been achieved. What I'm worried about is that it's just a time away from what's being proposed and when it's imperative to do something about it, until we accept these solutions. Look, I'll just give you an example. If it were not for last October 8th, the then Finance Minister and the President of the Government came before the Slovenian public and said, "Your roles in the Slovenian banks are safe to an unlimited amount", I firmly believe that even in Slovenia they would have witnessed the collapse of at least one bank. This did not happen because the reaction was quick and appropriate. This is also the case with these liquidity measures. With regard to the non-compliance with this amendment, it is slightly less than €800 million, we have put the amendment into the budget in exactly this amount, if the amendment is adopted there, then of course there will be no mismatch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say I won't be such an amendment and I can't support it. In these three days, when we talk about the budget, it often comes to mind how we are able to discuss negatively, that some simply want bankruptcy, the financial collapse of the country, on the one hand, a whole set of measures is proposed, from villages, rural sidewalks and, on the other hand, to impose abnormal requirements, and then debt is evident. The time and period of the economic crisis, everything, including the richest and most developed, of course, the countries in the world are also solving through debt. But once again, when it comes to borrowing in this direction, to allow people to simply survive, the existence to confirm that we are a social state, simply thinking of another at this point. However, in the wage coalition, those who have caused the biggest financial failure in the past are thoughtless and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Given my interest, I'm giving you time to apply for this amendment. Who else would like a word, or who would like to apply? Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	If the state is obliged to invest and to do something new, there is nothing wrong with it. We also said at the beginning of this year that private investment and state investment should be accelerated. I'm afraid it's not. The problem is, there's an increase in consumption. We have said that spending should be limited to the need for a wealthy state bureaucrat apparatus, a para-state bureaucrat apparatus to be brought into normal contexts because it has become so rich that it makes it impossible for the country to function effectively, which is particularly important in such situations that we are in today. And we're talking about that it's not good to be in charge of what doesn't mean any new added value, but we're going to eat today because there's not going to be anything left for tomorrow. This is what we are talking about and in this direction we have also tabled and proposed amendments. You know, we have also suggested that private consumption should be encouraged by increasing consumption by certain subsidies where it has been shown to be inadequate. And you said there'd be less tax revenue. As a result, we have an additional tax on motor vehicles at this meeting. And some strange logic that there will be more inflows to the budget. They won't, because people will buy less. If they were encouraged by a minimum subsidy, I don't know, 1,000 euros, but every purchase of more than 10,000 euros would come into the national budget of 2000 Euros. This is one simple logic that has been summed up by many European countries and has proved effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 33 and the amendment. We are moving on to the debate on Article 39 and the amendment to this Article. The amendments were tabled by SLS, SDS and SNS. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you. Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I would like to reiterate why we are proposing such increased averages for the financial year 2010 and the financial year 2011. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Community Financing Act, the Government with representative associations should reach an agreement on the average for 2010 and 2011. This agreement was not concluded and the Government unilaterally set the average. Therefore, we propose that the amount of the average amount to be determined by the representative associations of the municipalities be determined, namely the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Given that in 2009, the average was 538.45 and that the government had decided to increase this by 1.69%, while the Community and the Community of the Communities 3.9 had to be noted in all of these recent events, which have taken place during this crisis, that the crisis that has led to the fact that the salaries that have risen must be achieved and paid. Then there was a difference in kindergartens. The costs here are just as high. In view of the fact that there are more children, more constructions are needed, and all of this affects the congregation’s expenses. In view of the crisis, home aid has also increased, home care costs have increased, and emergency care has increased. In view of the fact that we have come into such a crisis, it is also necessary to subsidise from the municipal budget rents that cannot be settled by people themselves. And, of course, also the health insurance of the unemployed - not everyone has fallen under so that they can meet all the needs themselves or through social transfers. I therefore appeal that this average for 2010 and 2011 take into account this proposal, which we also propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Yes, not only in this provision, but also in general, it shows that the Government does not take the congregations as partners, but rather as opponents. That's bad. The agreement was not concluded - not with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, nor with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, and therefore this violent solution is introduced, which would not even be so problematic if the funding of a number of tasks could not be financed in the last year, unless adequate funds were provided. And these aren't. In contrast, Mr Jankovic is provided with an additional share of the average over these solutions, despite these solutions by the capital law. Only one answer is why. It is known that Mr Jankovic has strongly and publicly supported the current ruling coalition in the elections, and this is the payment for his pre-election services from public funds. That's bad. In addition, I think it is unconstitutional and non-systemic and is a bad signal to all other municipalities in Slovenia. This year, too, there was no so-called fifth call to encourage individual investments in municipalities of EUR 202 million of European money and not yet today. It is said that a number of segments that hinder municipalities in order to be able to carry out those tasks which they have to carry out under the law and which they would also carry out if the state did not oppose them if the state did not prevent and prevent them from doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Stonewall, you want a word? State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment, I would like to clarify that the Law on Community Financing provides very precisely for the way in which the average is calculated. It sets out a formula which states that the average in a given year is determined by calculating the average of the expenditure for the statutory tasks over the two years preceding the year for which I determine it, in our particular case 2007 and 2008, this average would be multiplied by the expected inflation in 2009 and 2010 and, if we follow this calculation set out by law, would then be the average of 542.99 euros for 2010. On this basis, we have agreed in our interviews with the representatives of the municipalities that we will increase the amount of resources for increased obligations of existing tasks, not new tasks, as the Law on Community Financing speaks, namely the area of pre-school education by 13.27 million and for healthcare in particular in the work relating to the implementation of the mandate to determine the payment of additional health insurance of EUR 728,722, which means a total increase of EUR 14 million. In this way, we have reached the extent enshrined in the Budget Implementation Act, which is an average of €550. Let me say that investments for municipalities are not a component of the average, but investments are again determined in accordance with the Community Financing Act as a percentage of the average or of the funds set for the performance of the tasks. And in the 2010 specific budget, investments for municipalities are increasing by 12% compared to this year. This is, of course, a much higher growth than the other growth in the expenditure of the state budget. Here, it is also possible to find room for funding the tasks of which were discussed both yesterday and today related to pre-school education, in particular to increase the capacity for pre-school education. The fact is that this is the task of the municipality under the law that is currently in force. If the State approaches the co-financing of the individual projects referred to in this Title, then it is only the assistance of the municipalities on the basis of the laws applicable and relating to the investment transfer which the State transfers to municipal budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Normally, if there was no call for 202 million for municipalities this year, let us hope that at least next year, it is normal that this item should be increased. I say 202 million that the congregations could have invested this year that this money was gone. If kindergartens are really just a problem of congregations, why are there then some 10 people at the Ministry of Employment and getting paid and everything else that goes with it? Then it's not necessary. Then let this matter be aired, and distribute the million and a half euros this year for investment in kindergartens to the municipalities. Only that will not make much of a difference, three departments, but at present 500 sections of the deficit are at national level if they want to provide space for all children who have stayed outside the kindergarten door. On this average, what you say is clearly true for everyone, only for Mr Jankovic. You're past what's written here in this law, in the Main City Act, adding an extra amount.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Mrs. Kamnar, can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The Law on the Financing of Pre-school Education provides for the regulation of the system of pre-school education and lays down the powers of the State and the municipalities on individual issues in the field of pre-school education. Setting up the preschool system itself is a national task. Providing capacity for pre-school education is a municipal task. It's in the law. As regards the treatment of the Ljubljana municipality or as Mr Černač says, Mr Jankovic, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which we are talking about now, there is no average for Ljubljana calculated on any other scale than the average for all other municipalities. You're probably talking about the Main City Act, but it's not the subject of this treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Nicely greeted! As mayor and Member of Parliament, it should be for this amendment to be adopted. However, if I see my role solely as a Member, then I accept the explanation given by Mrs Kamnar. I must say, there was a lot of coordination between the municipality and the Ministry of Finance. The problem is that too much policy is now interfering with this coordination. We know what it's like to run these two communities. Despite the great efforts that some have made to unite to be one association, not two. I must say that even when we agreed on this average in the Community of Congregations with the ZOS, it was said, "let us say a slightly larger number, then it will be lower." And I think that's what's coming to this now, and it's just that it has to be aligned with these 550 euro averages. Therefore, it will certainly be necessary to be very careful in reducing the burden of the congregations, in dividing the congregations into new congregations. When we discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly, we will have different views. New congregations are a new cost, and this average is not enough to survive. Once again, it will have to be very careful, given the situation in the economy and everywhere else, how municipalities are burdened, where superstandards and other things are on average included, which are not necessarily necessary in this situation. I won't be able to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The municipalities are bound to the so-called [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Mr. Pukšič, just a question. Did you sign up for the debate? I don't mean today, but what else? [[Yeah.]] Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	appropriate consumption. [[...]] But in the country of the congregation, we have only resources from appropriate spending, and some other congregations that have other resources and that appropriate use still have a strong oath. The share of investments for those municipalities that exceed the so-called appropriate consumption is then significantly higher and easier to run for specific own resources tenders. However, if we review the statistics, we will see that municipalities with so-called appropriate spending still have a huge share in investment. Since it has not been agreed with both associations how much this average should be for 2010 and 2011, this amendment makes sense. But it's not a big deal. However, the fact is that these funds will be earmarked in local communities for a definite and doubling, tripled, petered with investment contributions, which has an impact on VAT return and other matters. Perhaps something should be done on those more systematic, important matters so that one average or one minimum wage is not nearly as low as the protection of one child in kindergarten, about 300 euros per child, or that you need two minimum wages to protect an elder in the home. Things don't fit in here. I am convinced that it would be better or more important to deal with these things now in these so-called times of crisis, or as we have discussed both budgets for the last two days, with what astronomical figures are going to and from GDP. At the same time, when funds would be allocated to the investment cycle, the coalition, as I see, opposes. It is true that, until now, all the clever proposals that have come from the opposition have been opposed, and the result is a situation such as this. It's definitely, not that it's not good, it's, unfortunately, catastrophic. I will support these amendments as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I can see the hands. I'm opening time for an application. Here you go. Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Look, I fully understand the answer given by the Madam Secretary. Of course, I also agree with this that in 2007, 2008 there were such results as spending, this is what counts, etc., so on. However, at this time 2007/2008, things have happened that will now have a very strong impact on life and consumption in local communities, which is a significant increase in unemployment. I'm more into our environment, and I know how it is with us, in our environment. Then increase the children. Thank God this happened, that they're kids, that we can fill kindergartens, that even more of this has to be. All of this needs to be settled and all of this needs to be financed, of course. For this reason, I would say that the most "hand" is also those two associations that did not just go into a completely simple "deal" how and how to blackmail someone, but that these are calculations that are relevant and that show this need that we are talking about in this amendment and which I am now defending. Once again, we in the Slovenian People's Party will certainly support this and once again appeal to everything to really think about it and to do this as it should, because we expect more of these problems to happen. These are not yet detectable, but I think that that wave of social problems is still coming and that more resources will have to be allocated to this, as we are now assessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one is answering the debate anymore, I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We'll pick her up at 11.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Given that the meeting was closed a little faster than it was in the announcement of time, I suggest that you, at the request of our Group of Members, order an additional half-hour of recess for consultation in the Group before the debate on the amendments and even before the first decision. Please, if we please, please grant our wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	You've heard the procedural proposal for a half-hour interruption. You have heard the proposal that before we go to the vote, we should stop the meeting in half an hour and put the procedural proposal to a vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 21. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. I'm adjourning the session, and we're going to continue it 15 minutes later in 12, so 12.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We've moved to the polls. Before we move to further votes, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. I would like to inform you that, in the framework of the budget package of acts, we will first vote on the proposal for a decree on the 2010 and 2011 State Property Sales Programme, on the proposals for a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per capita for state administration authorities and judicial authorities for 2010 and 2011 and on the proposal for a law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis. After voting on the updated draft budgets for 2010 and 2011, we will move on to a decision on the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011. We're moving on to a 26A extension. agenda items - this is for consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Sales Programme for State-owned Assets for 2010 and 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First of all, to Article 3, where we have an amendment to the coalition's parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss or explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 21. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. But who doesn't have a voting device? Mr. Visjak, you've raised your hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	When I was under the first and the second pressure, the card didn't work, and at the third pressure, it worked, and it was already the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	We move to a vote on the second amendment to Article 3 or to Table B in the annex to the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to the chapter Presentation of individual indirect investments in the annex. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 50, for 25. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 25 members.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. Whole vote on the ruling. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on the State Assets Sales Programme for 2010 and 2011 as a whole. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the proposal for a decision would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 21. [[59 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 21 members.]] I find that the decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Annual Real Estate Management Plan for the State, worth more than EUR 300,000 per individual asset, for the administration of the State and for the judicial authorities for 2010. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the cut-off of the 26th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decree on the State's Annual Real Estate Management Plan of over €300,000 per individual value for government authorities and judicial authorities for 2011. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. The vote is under way. 81 Members and Members are present. 54 votes to 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[1 versus.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - the draft law on intervention measures, due to the economic crisis, is under consideration. We continue with the second reading, that is, by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 25.11.2009. We're going to a2. Article, to vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, through the proposals of both budgets and through this intervention law, the Government has followed the principle of taking where it is actually the easiest to take - not with itself, but with others. And what is most problematic is those who are also relatively strongly committed to this scourge and the consequences of the crisis. I believe that the solution to interfere with existing rights, such as pensions earned for work done, to interfere with social transfers, particularly those affecting those on or below the social edge, is inappropriate. However, in itself, the government, the state administration, has virtually no savings in many unnecessary spending within the framework of the state administration. On the contrary, we even have growth indices in a number of areas, such as wages, material costs and so on. We would also understand some kind of intervention law that would interfere with the ways of coordination and certain rights, assuming that the government would exhaust all its savings options. It's not like that. As a result, the Slovenian Democratic Party has also proposed amendments, or a very important amendment to the budget, which would drastically limit public spending on current expenditure and non-productive investments, and the coalition groups have expressed negative views on this amendment. So the coalition and the government are not prepared to save, and they are willing to save on those who are barely ending any month, so those who are also affected by the pressures of the crisis. I think that such an approach is unfair, unfair, and even more so is the fact that the Government, as a proponent of this law, has been misleading the public, namely that this Law on Intervention Measures is in line with the social partners. He's not in sync! This law is coordinated only in the work relating to the salaries of public servants, and this is only partly because not all unions have agreed to it there. However, in the part concerning the decision to enforce free pre-school education in work relating to the freezing or partial freezing of the coordination of salaries or pensions and in the work relating to social transfers, it is not consistent with the social partners. The government and the minister also admitted that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose and support the solution to erase this part from the law, which is why this amendment to the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Friend on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we support the amendment, but we cannot support these measures, because the non-systemics are in fact very ready and do not solve anything or will further deepen social dissuasion in the country. What's this all about? There was no word on the salaries of directors who are directors of companies owned by a majority of the country, and they still have executive salaries that go beyond the salary of a minister or a prime minister. You haven't said anything about what you're going to do with the public sector. The public sector still in the Labour Relations Act does not have the option of giving up due to job shortages and is in fact privileged, the inequality before the law and the constitution is incomparable compared to the economic work of employment. A worker just loses his job if there's no guaranteed amount of work. We don't forgive public servants. Financial non-discipline in the country is very large and the country has absolutely no interest in this, the country is immediately collecting 20% from the invoice, and it is not interested in how the service will be paid. He is also the largest debtor of the country, even allowing the state not to pay contributions to work under the legal obligation. And worst of all, in this proposal, you only take jobs, socially vulnerable people and pensioners. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen! There is also no prospect of creating new jobs. What's more, you're thinking about -- I don't know if you're going to call it a measure, an intervention measure, an increase in working hours, so your son will drive his old mom to work, and he won't have a job, until he's 65. If you're going to do this, then I can tell you in advance that this is going to be a really good action. There are no new jobs in sight. There is no way that all these masters, doctors who today leave quality education, will be involved in working processes in Slovenia. And that is why this proposal, in these concrete terms, is flawed, inappropriate and essentially just a full budget hole, of course without agreement with the social partners and in a way that you are taking where there is nothing today. Workers work full-time when going "factory" to bankruptcy are the last on the bankruptcy payout list. The undertaker, who is called the principal of the company in bankruptcy, is the first to receive 200, 300,000 euros in relief. It's bullshit, you know. And these demonstrations they're preparing now are the answer to that. We'll be with them, of course - with the workers. Think about what you wrote! That's a lot of nonsense in the proposal. Of course we won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the amendment, but not the law, because we estimate that it is not appropriate to save on those who have the least who are socially weak. On the other hand, this week we have had the opportunity to see that in some or many, that I will not even tell most, the budget consumers of this savings are not detected. Let me ask someone, for the second time, third time today, why can the General Secretariat of the Government, after the 2009 budget prepared by the previous Government, be able to "survive" - in quotations - with €14.9 million; that it has €16 million in the 2010 budget and €17.1 million in the 2011 budget? Why is that? Such budget consumers, who do not share the fate of the Slovenian economy, are largely in these budgets. And also because there are no answers to these questions and you can't explain why, we certainly won't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you. Since the interest is to explain the votes in my own name, I am opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Tiny, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I support the SDS amendment. The intervention law must result in the outcome of the crisis if we are to ease the crisis and swim out of it. We note that pensions and social transfers are not compatible with the social partners, especially pensioners. Here there has been a certain irregularity, since pensions are not a social transfer, but come from the past work when they were allocated to the pension register. The infringement of the rights acquired is incorrect and cannot be supported. Social policy must be driven through the policy of creating new jobs and thus ensure the satisfaction of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you. Yesterday, the most in heaven was the screaming silence on the side of the current authority when this amendment was considered. It was silence at the grave of social justice. Look, the same government and the same coalition that didn't even have the slightest concern that it increased the salaries of its government officials for five grades, some of its law enforcement officials for even seven classes, now it wants to save money on evidence for children with disabilities, wants to save on pensioners. This is, of course, an increase in social differences. It is a burial of social justice as values. The only thing that would be fair is that the government, the state, is saving on its own. This is said to limit these measures to state officials and civil servants. That is precisely the essence of the amendment that we are proposing and which, therefore, I certainly support. But it will be very sad if, in all the big words about the social state and social justice, which is also recorded in the programme of the current coalition and government, we witness that it will be saved on children, on families, on people with disabilities, on pensioners. It's anti-systemic, it's illegal, it's unethical and it's the end of values that have not only ten years in this country, but a centuries-old tradition. For the principle of social justice is also the foundation of Christian social science. You forget that all those who advocate the destruction of the values on which this country was established and built.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening applications. Mr Bogovich, please, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	In the Slovenian People's Party, the draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis will not be supported. The main reasons why we decided to do so are the figures that are the result of these measures then in the 2010 and 2011 budgets. Once we have finished these two financial years, there will be three quarters of the Member's mandate, a very difficult Member's mandate, both for us, Members, and for the Government. We firmly believe that the intervention measures set out in this document do not answer the crisis and questions at this time. We know that the public sector is one who is a major consumer of taxpayer money. As we observe what is happening to us in these times of crisis, on the one hand, at the end of September 1,800 more employees than in January, when we did not take decisive and radical action to address the economic crisis and prevent budgets from ending with a billion 800 million minus in 2010 and slightly less in 2011. Already in the debate on the budget's balance for this year, we have noted this with amendments that we already knew in advance will not receive support from the coalition. We wanted to draw attention to the need to make a major incision in public consumption in a wider area, not only with officials, and that public spending should be reduced. We have also proposed several times that we should try to reduce public spending by making more contributions to those who are recipients, not only nominally in percentages, but that percentages would be higher for these salaries and we should in some way reduce what has been pointed out today that the country's budget management is very close to what we are saying today is that countries are close to bankruptcy. We are talking about Ukraine and another country that is closer to us. However, this document is the one with which intervention measures should be taken for those two years, and in these two years it is certain that the belt will be compressed, the belt will be squeezed in in public consumption and the fate of the real sector shared. Unfortunately, this document has not done so, and I am sure that the price for what Slovenia and Slovenia are likely to pay in the coming term will be very high and that part of this price should be paid in the two years ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Mr Černač on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Respectable. After our amendment has been rejected, we will vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we cannot agree with what the Government is doing to ensure that the burden of the crisis is borne to the greatest extent by the weakest. We cannot agree that the burden of the crisis is borne to the maximum by those with the lowest benefits and those with the lowest pensions. With this law, the government saves on those who have nothing left to save, in pensioners, in children, in people with disabilities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expected the Government to draw up a set of systemic measures to limit, on the one hand, the non-productive public spending and the costs of state and other bureaucracy, which will be the percentage that will be attached to this purpose, to GDP. On the other hand, we expected the Government to take measures to accelerate economic growth. Not one, not the other. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law, as it is now prepared, will not significantly help to improve the structure and to rehabilitate public finances, but will make living and working conditions very difficult for hundreds of thousands of people in this country. At the same time, the government, when proposing an intervention law, should also propose the amount of the minimum pension and minimum wage that would allow for normal survival. This is not the case, as a result of these solutions, which are in this law cannot be supported. During the last year, we have witnessed that it is being saved in parts where it is no longer possible to save, and consumption is being encouraged or increased where there is much to be saved. Not only is there no action, even when proposed and supported as good by the professional public, are they rejected or unwilling to participate in their possible improvements. The government has also done nothing in those areas where significant savings could be achieved by better management, better planning and by making it possible for those resources in its domain to operate more rationally and efficiently. For this reason, we are witnessing the incredible scenarios that have taken place in recent months, with more than 30,000 jobs in the economy less in the last year, the number of employees in the public administration has increased by 1802 according to APIES statistics. This is the wrong world, and even for these reasons this law cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. Anybody want a word on their own? I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. To explain the voice in its own name. Mr. Pojbich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Mr President! Of course, I cannot support this law in any way, but not just me as a Member of this National Assembly, especially as Vice-President of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee. I believe that it is unacceptable that the proposal of this law saves on the account of the socially weakest layers, young families and pensioners who have paid a fair wage for their pension throughout their working life. Saving at the expense of the weakest and most endangered layers is unacceptable. Children's allowance, large family allowance, unemployment allowance, invalidity allowance, mental and physical resources, livestock, etc., are social transfers that need to be coordinated. Above all, it is unacceptable to save at the expense of young families. Children, we all know, are our greatest wealth. On the other hand, of course, we do not have any problems with deleted, increasing judicial salaries. We just heard from a colleague of Montenegro that in public administration they increased the number of employees by 1,800 people, etc. It is true that what my colleague Chernač said was wrong is the world. It is unbelievable and incomprehensible and unreasonable of this government coalition, from this government, which is constantly claiming and saying that it is socially oriented, that it is doing such things and adopting the legislation that we have here today. I am convinced that every Member and Member of this National Assembly, which means something to the social state, which means something to it, is crucial to the fact that people can at least survive in this country, this law in no way at all, can be confirmed. Once again, I will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	In politics, of course, they do not count the word, as they often try to suggest in Slovenia, what is in politics what actions are. The vote now before us will show very clearly who is who in Slovenia. Because exactly the same authority, which raised salaries for 25 high-ranking civil servants for 5 classes without any doubt at a time when there was a lot of talk about savings even in coffee, which has raised salaries for some law-abiding officials for 7 classes, will now legitimize the reduction of income for children, families, large families, pensioners and even disabled persons, and thereby increase social disparities in Slovenia. This will be the burial of the values that have been present in this space; not only for decades, as mistakenly thought, but for centuries, and have enabled the survival of the Slovenian people and have enabled the creation and construction of a country that has been distinguished by the high quality of life of its citizens and citizens. This means the destruction of everything that the ruling coalition has promised and advocated in its words, and now in its actions it proves that it is something else that the Slovenian public has been misleading all the time. I'm stressing again. In politics, they don't count the word, the actions are in force, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. For a year now, we have been faced with the ugly consequences of the economic crisis that has come upon all of us without any of us being directly responsible for it. These consequences meant that we had to lower revenues for some in the state administration, started with ministers, continued with Members. The result is also that the budget numbers are tightening us down. As a result, in the coalition we understand the need to do so without any reduction in public sector wages and consequently other benefits, because this will not happen, it is necessary to stress strongly, but only that the increases will happen more slowly and to a lesser extent than they would otherwise. This is difficult for me, as a Member of the Social Democrats, like all other colleagues and colleagues of the Social Democrats, to do, because we put social justice first among the country's priority policies. However, we are aware that if we want to be responsible for the country, numbers leave us no alternative but to do so this time. And once again: it will be easier for us, because we will not lower anyone's income, only increases will happen more slowly and to a lesser extent, in the hope that the economic crisis will pass away as soon as possible, and that this intervention measure will end soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you. I see an interest in explaining the voice. I only saw one hand. Yeah, more hands, so I'm opening the application. Here you go, Mr. Black. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	Of course, I won't support this law myself. Look, whoever has 300, 350 euros in pension will have a hard time understanding this debate today, and it will be difficult to understand that he has to save and that his status will not change if he has to pay substantially more for the basic cost of living in the coming year. Essentially more for water, electricity, garbage transport, etc. The government could do something for these people without costing what some congregations do. We know that these people don't usually pay bills on the Internet, but they pay them physically at banks and savings banks. And in these circumstances, some local communities responded, went to these people and allowed these bills to be paid without commission. This should be done by the Government, through at least two state banks, and it would already be a major burden relief, which is not so small at 300 euros in pension. Every five euros is important to these people. These people will also find it difficult to understand that they have to save, not those who have ten times that many a month. We have recently read that in many companies there are payments at the level of administrations or leading managers of the awards, which amount to between €100 and €300,000 annually. It will be difficult for these people with 300 euros, says 3,600 euros of annual income, to understand that the burden of saving is on them and that this will save the country. It won't, because it's being wasted on all the other segments and it's not being mastered. Look, instead of Falcone renting at least $125 thousand a month, we've been witnessing that he's been traipsing all over the hangars for a year. Now so perverse things are happening that some are transporting it instead of transporting those who would pay the rent. I think that this is not the right approach and that the signal of this law is completely wrong. Action should be taken in completely different areas. That's why I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I will support this law, although sometimes it is difficult to correct certain things from the past, and especially to face the time when we are facing an economic and financial crisis. It is nice to be smart, and most of all by the current opposition, what should have been done, when this opportunity was when they had the opportunity to deal with a variety of measures, and they did not. As an example, I have repeatedly mentioned when we talk about this compassion for a small person, about what needs to be done for small people, and I will stress once again the law on scholarships, when, with the various supplements counted as censorship, the previous government allowed 17,000 young people who wanted to study to remain outside the door. And that mistake was over. More mistakes have been made and more will be made. However, we need to know that we are in a difficult situation. And to talk about how the economic and financial crisis reflects on those who don't, on those who are the weakest, simply don't. Nothing is taken away from anyone, but growth is slowing down slightly, which is a real reaction to what is happening in society. However, it must also be said that when we have talked about all the needs for which people have to deduct some financial resources, it is necessary to realize that inflation at this point is zero, so that living needs will not grow as fast as they did in the previous mandate, when inflation was 7% and wages did not increase as they should, and we still have no higher minimum wage and there is still no concern about that in the previous mandate for the weakest people when economic growth was and when it could be easier to do so. So before we're too critical, really [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let us move from words to actions, and when you have this sincere purpose, I believe that you will succeed or be able to accomplish it. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	Today there is no one of good will, at least not on this side of the hall, who will accept this law responsibly because, in the responsibility of public finances, it is necessary to accept the responsibility of this country. Today, we may not be faced with this difficult task if some actions in the past were done properly, when more room was essential and when it was possible to make decisions not to be put into such a distasteful situation today. It is easy to be a populist, it can be linear to say 800 million euros we will take away from the country and reduce its consumption and on the other hand we will not take away those revenues which we are slowing down by this law. I wonder, however, where was this responsibility, where was this affection for the people, of whom today there was much to hear from the opposition species, when this support was needed, if you want, for the little man - for me a very inappropriate expression - also to put it into concrete effect. If the time of high economic convergence could better be used to create reserves, not an annual deficit, which can only be solved by displaying this deficit with accounting tricks as a virtual surplus, then today you may not be faced with this deplorable situation. He supported the law with responsibility to the state, out of responsibility for the fact that we all form a community together, because we cannot survive without a community.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. There's certainly too much swindling. In the past term, when we were lowering taxes in all respects, it was heard in this Chamber that some people received Mercedes, the other sausage, the lowest ones were supposed to get Mercedes, and we care, and so our government took care of those rich ones who bought another Mercedes. My dears, this time not only do you take their sausages, sorry, you take half their sausages from before yesterday. Why? Anyway, it's very real. In this hall we continue to hear that: we are, we are social, we care for the poor, we care for the pensioners. No! No! With this law - of course we speak well - we do not take anything from anyone. Tell the truth, instead of a hundred units of promotion of a social supplement, instead of one hundred raises of a pension, such an individual, who still has nothing today, will receive only fifty units. Let's say it! We're not taking anything from him, we're just not giving him what we're supposed to give him. So, by pressing the "yes" button - mine will be "against", that's clear - we'll give him fifty instead of a hundred units, and instead of the sausage he got in the previous term, you cut it off. That's the way to say these things. I think people will understand much more. It's right that people know that, too. It's right that they know that they knew yesterday, it's right that they know today who they are, and it's right that they'll know that tomorrow. All that stuff about previous governments and so on - you've been in power for 15 years and you've had an eternal minus. You're telling us we haven't saved enough, and tomorrow you're planning two billion minus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you. Since I can still see the hands to explain my own name to the vote, I am reopening my application. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. As I have already said, the Slovenian People's Party and ourselves will vote against this law. It would be responsible for this government to find that the previous one was so poor and that the budgets of the previous government were so weak that this time it would fix the spending per budget user in these difficult times. That's what I'd expect. The indices show everything before this. The indices are higher than 100. I've listed a lot of offices for you. I have 12, 13 offices listed here. All have higher expenditure in line than was projected in the 2009 budget prepared by the former government, as you say, a bad government. If these indices were all lower in order, which would be logical at this time, everyone would understand here today, as well as the people from the weakest layers that we are now talking about, that we all need to tighten our belts. In this case, when certain budgetary consumers simply get into the financial crisis and have indices 100, 110, 115 and 120 compared to that budget. Come on, stop breaking it, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. As the predecessor said, we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party. Look, everything revolves around wages, most of all about how much money goes into wages, you can probably save somewhere else. But we are so complicated about these personal incomes or incomes, in my opinion, absolutely too much. Why not consider that public sector employees employed in services where the country has a significant share or a majority share should be regulated in proportion to the charging of the budget. If 10% is less budgeting, 10% less salary, we can also increase if we are successful in this. And we set a limit that we're not supposed to go under. Even those figures on the minimum income of 600 euros still seem small to me. I don't want to be a demagog or a populism here, but I think 750 euros in this country should be the least personal income that could survive as much. If we had already gone into such a system, we would not have achieved below 750 euros in wages, nor should those to whom it would have been reduced have fallen under this income in order not to open up other new social problems. With as many employees as we have in the public sector and in these companies, where the country has a significant share, I am sure that we would have reached quite a large number. I don't know that hero who would put this job in the public sector, which is a safe service, at stake if he would eventually get a personal income of around €75.100 less at the end of the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is given by Rudolf Petan, an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	Of course I won't support this marriage. However, when I listen to arguments, I hear that when arguments run out from the other side, the work of the previous government starts to become entangled. How the former government has not done enough to favor people and has given little to the little man, and it would be interesting to know why this government cannot make the same pay-as-you-go balance and literally the hole, how it cannot pay 500 million to compensate for personal income. That's why you don't pay or why you even find out if you're saying that the previous government didn't do anything! That's what she says. She's obviously done too much. You can't even do it and get involved with yourself. If social transfers were as small as you say there was no hearing for small people - why do you now hate? That is why I will not support this because you do not freeze, but in the previous term this has increased. Of course! The difference is you can't pay her now because you can't. What are you saying, then, that the previous government has not done? Of course, how well she did! You cannot do this today, so freeze the smallest.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	In the previous term, the main argument was that those rich get Mercedes, the other one gets candy, and today you're doing the opposite. Those who already have a Mercedes, you give them another one, you increase them from 5 to 7 classes of wages, and those who have the least who need social assistance on social transfers, you hate them. This is the wrong world, the wrong logic! Since you have no arguments, it immediately turns to the previous government, how it did no more. Yeah, you can't even do what she did! What if I did more? We should cross even more, but not just freeze, take away! Because of what you do to give those who have Mercedes another one, to those who have nothing or very little, and to them you hate these incomes and benefits, so of course I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	I will vote in favour of this law. I have to put it this way. First, we need to know why there is even a need to limit the growth of pensions and social transfers. Because pension funds are collected from the average wage and the average wage has grown - why? Because there have been no structural changes over the past four and more years that would allow us to maintain the employment rate that it had been until the previous year, but without any structural changes of course our economy has not been prepared for the greatest crisis since 1929 in the past century. As a result, of course, the apparent average wage has grown while in reality the mass of contributions to the pension fund has dropped rapidly, as the number of people contributing to the pension fund is, of course, so low. And secondly, what I would say: there is also something to know that the Government has been repeatedly warned over the past period that social transfers are not aligned with very high inflation. While inflation is almost gone today, which is not even that good. It was very high inflation, but social transfers were not coordinated twice a year, but only once a year, and only work backwards. So the recipients of social transfers over the past two, three years lost huge sums of money if we look, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] What their social transfers were. [[...]] So let's be honest and just! Talk about sausages and Mercedes-yes. You've been lowering taxes for those who have the most money!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support this, nor will I support these proposals, because they are, as it were, inconsistent and very flat-rate. You don't need to stress, you know we're in a crisis. The one who's hungry, that's for sure. And that's the layer we're taking today. For those of us who don't have the basic survival, we're on to you. You're not going to solve the crisis that way. I'm just gonna say a few things that I miss here. Why does the Prime Minister not immediately respond to a number of calls to reduce wages for directors of state-owned enterprises? At least to your level. Secondly, why not dispel those who are deminders of the Slovenian economy who have filled their pockets, who are essentially responsible for this economic crisis, which have enormous wealth on banks, at home and abroad? Why don't we just introduce this measure? Traceability of the property is possible, as it can be seen. Everyone has to prove how much they have and where they have it. Why don't we cut down on the public sector? There is an increasing number of employees in the public sector. Reduce this sector, and you'll have money, and you won't have to take these miserable measures to make sure that workers, pensioners, disabled people, families take money - those who don't already have it. Secondly, why don't you draw on all the European funds you have at your disposal? We find a catastrophically poor use of European funds. New projects could result in new added value, new jobs. Let's not do anything in this area! Judges, we've increased their salaries. Why don't we just freeze this thing? If it's a crisis, let it be a crisis for everyone. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You'll get more money than you need. [[...]] All these social transfers adopted today in the National Assembly - this funding does not work. We finance waiting at home, we finance [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I'll support the marriage. The law is not ideal, as is not an ideal budget, which we will vote on a little later. As for the debate on the previous and current government, if I recall correctly, the current opposition spent four years talking about the previous government. However, I will give you the data from the 2008 development report: "After the AMAR report, the minimum wage in 2007 has actually decreased by 1.1%. Less favourable were the movements on the side of the minimum wage, mainly as a result of changes in the coordination mechanism..." and so on, so that I do not read any further. Those of you who know what this is all about know what I'm talking about. There's only one thing I'm gonna say about the end. We are taking intervention measures due to the crisis - a crisis that has not been caused by us, which has not been caused by this government, but must be dealt with. Finally, if it were possible to spread demagogia on bread, I would vote against this law, because it is not possible, I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote. Alice Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to come by, but all I had to say was in those pompous words. If you change or reduce or otherwise want to regulate coordination, there is no logic that we adopted a law a few months ago that gave us one - time assistance. Since you yourself have found that some people in this country need additional assistance, we have granted them one-off supplements, thereby reducing them. That just means you don't know what you're gonna do tomorrow, or it's very different from what you did yesterday. And that's a little funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Of course, this law cannot be supported, for this law - not that it is bad, but is disastrous, and it is for the weakest layers of our population, which are more than a month apart. It is truly taken to those who cannot be taken in essence any more; to those who cannot make up the beginning of the month any more at the end of the month. But that's not all. What's next? With this law, you take those with whom you plan next year, when you tax additional property taxes, when you increase the tax on heating oil, when you increase the tax - God knows what else these people are waiting for, with horror in their eyes, to ask what their prospects are next year. Do not refer to the previous government! You've been in position for a year, and you've done nothing to make this crisis smaller. We shouldn't have minus 8% of economic growth. We could have maybe minus 1, minus 2. What if the former government you so refer to were not doing so well? That's not funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	It's not funny. Such a legacy, thank God, thank God for those people to have it, for without such an legacy today would probably be much more difficult for many people today. That's why you don't refer here to something that's not actually true. People don't believe you. Let's take it, let's change the law so that the court's wages come back to the relationship that was before. Give to those who have increased their wages by five classes or more, unjustifiably, give it to those who take it away. With that amendment, of course, when we proposed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Bogdan Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you. So far, I have spoken to my colleagues, and I have also tried to prove that it is just as I like to say: if it is a war, it is a war for all and it is necessary to save also where it is not popular to save. However, I myself - I think three times - have pointed to article 8 of the Law on Measures We are talking about. I've warned three times that if it's a war, it's a war for everyone. You know, now I can't take it anymore, too, that we're reducing some rights. However, if we go in the order of the articles so that we do not think about it: the Kindergarten Act, the reconciliation of pensions, etc., and get to Article 8, where we give it to public servants again and give it to them for the following reason that they can get to pay for their work performance in the performance of the regular work of the budget user 20%. You know what I'm gonna say, I'd really like to know what these above-average performances are. What we need to do and must be done by public servants, and what we think and reward them, that it is above average, should be done every day under the expression of average. And now we've invented that when we take others for all of these, besides this 20%, for over-average work, another 10% for the increase in labor. Please, 30% of all employees, including some, not just mine, but 210 municipalities and administrative units, walk around and have lunch for an hour. And now we're gonna reward them, and now we're gonna take the others. For this reason, specifically and clearly, I will therefore oppose, even though I understand the Government and understand that certain measures are necessary, but this could be frozen and removed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up again. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	Respectable. I'll say no to the law. It is true that the existing coalition and Slovenia is not responsible for the emergence of this crisis and deeply reflects the social situation of people with the lowest income, especially pensioners and recipients of social transfers. There were no timely measures. The crisis has deepened. Slovenia has fallen from a few percent economic growth to almost 10% economic decline. This is such a severe shock that the Government, instead of taking measures to promote economic activity, has accompanied it with measures to save on those who have nothing left to save. This is for pensioners and recipients of social assistance. Contrary to logic, the government began to raise taxes. Look at what you did with the excises last year or this year. Excavations have dramatically stimulated life, fuel, and also fuel. If it were not for these excise duties, life in Slovenia would be easier despite the crisis, but you have burdened people here. You want to burden people with other taxes on CO2 pollution charges for renewable sources and so on. So instead of helping people through economic activity, you go through measures to collect more taxes and how to squeeze those who have already drained the last drops.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	This is the wrong logic, and unfortunately the Government remembers nothing but this, but it rejects, unfortunately, our proposals, which we have repeated several times in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you. Explanation of the vote by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Many things have already been said by my colleagues from the party, but I cannot say anything on my own. Of course, I do not support such measures personally, nor do we support them in the Slovenian National Party. It is a matter of headless action, and it will certainly not solve the situation in which our country is located. The measures, in my view, are non-systematic, unfair, socially unjust and will continue to make greater differences between the population. You will likely soon find that you are not doing well when the nation happens. I'm just telling you, I'm going back to my Pomurje. When you save Pomur, you experience what you do, you actually revive the dead when you have a patient, you have not treated him or anything like that, we can expect it to happen in the future. And yet, respected Social Democrats, your name is sound and beautiful, you would expect to act in your own name. I would rather say that you are social dementors than democrats and that this story of social democratic politics seems to repeat itself as in our neighbourhood. If we look only at Austria, Germany, when they come to power as socialists or socialists or if I generalise left-wing political offenders, there will be an economic collapse. If I tell you to your face, I feel like you just can't work with money. In Austria, this is a typical example, which the right hand of the morning has been hard to come, hard to stamp, this left of the afternoon has been spending a lot of money and it has been there for decades. It seems that Slovenia is facing a similar process, and I am sure it will end this way, because all of your suggestions for resolving this crisis and talking indefinitely [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Györek, we have once had a complication with the explanation of vote. I would really like to warn you, all together, that in explaining the voice, it is not disputed, but that it is trying to present its views on why someone will vote in the way that they intend to vote. Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis. The name of this marriage tells us everything. It is an intervention law, so it is not the law of a systemic nature, it is the result of an economic crisis, and what is at stake with me as a fundamental question is whether an intervention law can be adopted that would satisfy everyone. But when we talk about sharing the burden of the crisis, it seems to me that in these intervention measures, however, you may see the consequences of what happened years ago, but in years ago things could be handled differently. I would like to recall once again that the differences were mainly due to the inadequate Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the previous mandate, that nothing had been done in the previous mandate to address the effects of the reduction of the poverty threshold in those people who were in a poor situation during the good economic situation of the country and who showed serious images. I recall the answers I received from the current ruling set, and it might also be possible to ask what would have happened if it had not been for investments that were also based on credit, although they had some favourable economic results, but the whole economic crisis in Europe and in the world was combined with huge debt and overinvestment. This was, in many ways, linked to the promises of credit, but this option must solve them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Voice explanation, Marjan Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	Nicely greeted. The President. Messengers and Members and all present. There is no way I can accept this law and confirm it from this very point of view, for with this law you will make weak people even more weak. You have to realize, these weak people have also built homes, taken a chalk apartment, or built a house. Your goal is to make the bank the owners of these houses, these apartments? Maybe, then you can set them up in string flats so they can do what the army in Kosovo is doing, our army. If you want such a response from the Slovenian population, then it is bad. I would like all of us to think together that in Slovenia, too, these weak people can survive in this crisis, but not actually sink them to the bottom of the sea, which is why I cannot at all confirm this law, give it into admission, but even less, believe me, these citizens and citizens who will suffer this harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	Voice explanation, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this marriage. However, I would like to say that, in the previous mandate, the government reduced the public debt by 7%, i.e. credits, that the government, in the previous mandate, has drastically reduced the government's deficit or even reached a surplus in order to increase social measures, improve, increase social transfers and addenda by 1.2 billion euros to reduce household and economic burdens. And so this was the government you say was bad. This government, which is supposed to be good, is increasing, by 13, 14, 18% increased the public debt only this year. It has increased the public financial deficit to 5%, but it is not yet over, because there is likely to be more to be done and more to be done. It has adopted a number of measures for privileged groups. There was no problem in voting on the allowance for widowed officers of the Yugoslav National Army, no problem. An exceptional problem was the provision of social allowances for agricultural insurers. We are now in a situation where we will again intervene on the rights of pensioners, according to children, according to those who are entitled to social transfers. On the other hand, we have faced the fact that, I would say, virtually bankrupt managers have received unlimited fees to increase salaries for office officials, to increase salaries for judges, to take measures for deleted persons that will create a basis for additional budget absorption and to enforce additional requirements, etc. In short, we are some who have been good in the previous term, and those who are excellent are bad. Thank you very much. I'll go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dusan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this proposal for one simple reason. Now that I'm listening to this explanation, which is too much, it's too much. Indeed, and I will now make a statement, because there is indeed little or nothing that the previous government has done in a four-year mandate period with more than 6% growth. But it's true that she did something. It left "poof" and the annuities of this debt fell in 2009 at the beginning of the repayment of this debt. And now we are in a situation where, in addition to your long and economic situation and the crisis in which we are, of course, we also need to regulate these transfers, and this is all the story in this philosophy of yours, when you say what good you have done in the past. But those of you who speak have sat in this middle, remember with which I have disputed social transfers and social affairs. My colleague Grill will remember the lowest wage, the guaranteed salary, what you were saying at the time, and what you then took on the opposition's initiative. So please - which is too much!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Just a minute. I ask Members and Members not to compromise their explanations of vote with other Members and Members or Members' Groups. Since there was no stopping practice in explanation, I did not interrupt any, but I warned him about the post-festum and I ask you to hold on to it, or I will have to - very unpopular - cut anyone into the word. Please adhere to these principles, which we have somehow encountered with difficulty in our work so far. Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. My main reason is that I personally assess that some of today's debates do not lead anywhere. They do not lead anywhere, not to want colleagues from the opposition, from the SDS anyway, but also some purely other people here, fellow Members who debate some of the circumstances, including areas with problems such as the problems of Pomurje, including the White landscape, may have Koroška and others. [[...]] And some are now discussing so demogosically differently, about some of the demonstrators - it seems to me extremely insulting to the electorate and electorate who have entrusted their voice to someone or to us that we have become Members and Members of the National Assembly. Today we hear about this, I personally do not feel like an MP here, but I feel like a representative of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly. I will certainly support the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures or Anti-crisis Measures itself, because I do not think that any path is so bad that it could not be better. And I am sure that if we also support certain measures that are urgently needed in this situation by working together, we will also bring Slovenia forward in the times that we have already talked about, and perhaps we have not fully, quite sadly, taken advantage of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I too will be happy to support this intervention law because of the economic crisis, not because I would expect this law to be ideal or because the effects that this law will have will be ideal, but because I believe that they are the right ones at this time and in the right way. There are no ideal laws, especially at this time and at this time they will never be. We know that during this period we will actually have to patch up all the things that we have done in the past years. If we can do so much self-criticism, we will also see where and how. This year's law is just so and to the extent that it will only work in a way that it will not otherwise have no effect, but it will help those who need help and therefore I will gladly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Robert Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support this proposal. It's a so-called intervention law that goes to the detriment of the poorest. I would never have supported this law, nor would I have suggested it in such a form. Why not? If we remember before the elections, what was the pre-election password of those who are now in power, it is possible to lead Slovenia better. That's what you were saying when you knew about those debts that were discussed before. You knew about this and knowingly lied to voters and voters that Slovenia could lead better, now you have proved how to run it better. Now we're really pompous, and now we're going towards 10% deficit, and that's sad. So remember those promises before the elections when you were talking about how you're going to drain honey and milk, but now we're witnessing a real picture, and that's to break a copy of those weak ones. I'm actually ashamed of myself, but I have nothing to do with this law, of course I will vote against how you feel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	This explanation was not correct and I warn you, Mr Hrvat, that you will follow the rules of procedure in the future. Voice explanation, France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. We are certainly in the case of an important law, as the entire budget vote is important. We must all acknowledge, both the position and the opposition, that we are in difficult times and that we really need to tighten the belt. I agree with all these passwords or explanations that it is not easy to lead countries through these years, not just this year, even next year. Yet there are some - and here I join Mr Žerjav - who have by no means tightened the belt but have extended it. It would be much easier to confirm this law and I would say, even pensioners, those who live "in social life," including everyone else, will be slightly less money. However, compared to 2008, the government expects 24% more funding in the following year. The country will spend, spend 24% more money than in 2008 [[We've accepted the final bill.]] In 2008, expenditure was 8.5 billion, now 10.5 billion. Someone in this country is spilling. And because of that it's hard to convince the pensioners and everything else, tighten your belt! The government released him for 2 billion. And that's not good. That's what's kind of missing in this country. The budget would be much easier to accept, even in restrictive terms, if we felt solidarity in all areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 31. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - consideration of the 2010 supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. With regard to the amendments of SDS, SLS and SNS sent groups, I would like to point out that it relates only to the reduction of funds in individual sub-programmes within different users and does not contain a proposal to increase funds in specific programmes. This amendment is voted on by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the President of the Republic of Slovenia, 1111 President of the Republic of Slovenia and other users. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of user 1111 by the President of the Republic and other users. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Respectable. We have already tabled opposition parliamentary groups or opposition Members on the first draft of the budget, both for 2010 and for 2011 this very difficult, strong, financially inclusive amendment. With this, we wanted to inform the Government that it would be able to examine by the time the draft budget is completed the message which is drawn from this amendment. However, the message is, limit for God's sake the expenditure from this budget and reduce the deficit of the state budget to a limit of 3% of GDP. This is to a level that is still the highest permissible level under the Stability and Growth Pact. The amendment follows simple logic so that we can cover ourselves with a blanket as big as it is big and no bigger. Let's not waste across borders, especially where we can limit it to liquid consumption and non-productive investments. What did we want to report with this amendment? To enable the Government to take advantage of the crisis to take a little look in the mirror, to see what procedures within the entire bureaucracy are an overburden for people and the economy to debirocratise the country, both in terms of procedures and certain officials. To reduce the number of institutions, agencies, funds and a number of unnecessary institutions that pamper and dress Slovenians and Slovenians and, of course, entrepreneurs. We wanted the government to rationalise, reorganize itself during the crisis, but not to interfere with others and to cut them off. If the government respected this amendment, if at least partially incorporated it into the amended draft budget, then there would also be many more arguments in the coalition to limit the growth of pensions, social transfers and other rights that have been legalized in the past. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will support this amendment, and we hope that it will also receive the majority support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment to the budget user 1537, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in the place and abroad, which is the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Mr Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We propose to take a million euros to the administration of district courts and be supported by the Slovenians in the place and abroad. This is the case with a number of organisations that are experiencing their first collapse as a result of the Berlusconi government action. And elsewhere in the world, it's not much better. Let me list some basic, not all, organizations that would receive this money. The amounts are relatively small, but they are huge and essential for survival. It is a permanent Slovenian theatre in Trieste, Primorski dinik, Society Anton Gregorčič Gorica, Fund MITJA Čuk Municipality, National Council in Celovac, Association of Slovenian Organizations in Celovac, Community of Koroške Slovenčev and Slovenk, Association of Koroške partisans, Club of Slovenian Students in Koroškem, Development Agency of Slovenian Krajina in Hungary, Slovenian School of Anton Martin Slomška in Argentina, Slovenian Media House Vos Slovenije in Australia, for Slovenes in Brazil, for Baragov dom in Canada, Slovenian Cultural Centre Korotan in Austria, for societies in Germany, Sweden, Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the Society of Slovenian Emigrant Matica and the World Slovenian Congress. I think we could really give these Slovenian organisations some money, because that's how we're going to keep it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. 34 votes against 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 1611 Ministry of Finance - sub-programme of State Obligations to SPIS. We are voting on the first amendment of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. The vote was 31 to 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of the SDS Group under the sub-programme of the State's commitment to SPIS. We're voting. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members of Parliament are present. The vote was 31 to 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2311 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food under the sub-programme Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Management. We vote on the amendment of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. 34 votes to 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In the framework of the sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions, we are voting on the amendment of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members of Parliament are present. There were 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2415 Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads under the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We are voting on the first amendment of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the second amendment of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Your Honor! It is the Hotemaže - Britof road, three kilometres of road, which ends in the field on two sides. This is the oldest unfinished regional road project in Slovenia and has been going on since 1981. There have been major accidents at both ends of this conversation. Especially tragic is the three-kilometre road route that now runs through the old road through the village in this area and is not adapted to the modern traffic and to the extent it faces today. It is a road that holds an infamous record of the number of child tragedies and thus families on a kilometer road. In the last mandate, the project received all the necessary acts by the municipalities in the area, in particular the Municipality of Shenčur and the City of Kranj, with the help of the City of Kranj, obtained all the necessary consent and was already in the stage of implementation. There are already purchases of real estate, including both houses located on the road. Thus, there is no bridge, no tunnel, it is only a matter of political will to devote the funds already provided in the budgets of the past period and which you have also confirmed twice in the past period of this year at the time of the adoption of the two 2009 budget rebalancies. This road can be completed within just two years. It is a matter of faster development, i.e. the development interest of the whole of Slovenia, the development of tourism and transit in the region, as well as other assistance to entrepreneurship in this part of Gornje, and it is also a strategic link, as it is part of the road leading to the neighbouring country of Austria. Above all, it is a question of the attitude towards value, which I firmly believe should be a priority in deciding on these matters - on the issue of security, in particular on the issue of the safety of our children. That is why I ask all of you, and of course the Gorenje MEPs, that you are consistent in your conduct and as you have already confirmed this road twice in the budget's rebalancing to return the money, only that is what is meant for a faster buy-in and then to complete this construction within a reasonable time. Our children certainly deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, for 35, for 39. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the third amendment of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	In this case, the amount is still significantly lower. In this case, too, it is a project that is already in the implementation phase. Even there, with the help of the congregation, all the ransoms were already accepted. It is a road circle connecting the highway and the airport of Brnik and taking place in a given case through the municipality of Shenčur. There is a circle that is urgently needed for the construction of an industrial zone that is developing extremely rapidly there. At this point, there's hundreds of people working there, and it's almost 2,000. You all know this case well, for there is a road in the middle that is surrounded by some plastic obstacles and several accidents have already occurred at this section. Since there is already a ransom already under way after the formal salary, including through municipal funds. It is therefore only a matter of a political decision to return the funds that have already been provided for in the budgets for the past period as in the previous case, including the two budgets for which you have voted and thus allow this part of the road to be managed safely, since it is a strategic issue of faster economic development, on which the coalition also swears and, on the other hand, it is a matter of the safety of those living and employed there. However, as in the previous Slovenian interest, the development centre of Brnik airport is defined as a strategic development project for the whole of Slovenia and, of course, the infrastructure arrangements for this development project are also of strategic development importance for the whole country. That's why I expect your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fourth amendment, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. In these days, we have heard a great deal about how this budget is development-oriented. And if that is the case, but it is true that approaches can be different, then we can certainly say that road infrastructure, facilities on this road infrastructure, is certainly those that contribute to development. Without good road infrastructure, there is no development. It's a circular object in the Sunshine. Everything is ready to begin the construction of this facility. Projects were prepared two years ago to start construction already this year. However, the proposal for a new budget for the following year concerns, without being deleted, but the construction has moved over the following periods. You all know that the road that goes from Slovenian Horses to Zreč and further to Rogla is part of the tourist infrastructure, to power the tourist centre of Zreča itself, where there are thermals and also the winter sports centre in Rogli, where sports infrastructure is built with European means, namely the running range on Rogli, where the competitions will be. Let him mention that it is certainly within the function of the organization of the winter university in 2013, when they will be at the corner of the ski race. Given that the projects themselves are not difficult to be prepared, that there is no problem with the land, so far, thank God, there is no civil initiative to oppose. On the other hand, it is true that right at this intersection, which is now a three - legged settlement, was created. This village also needs a connection. Since there are many young families here, there are many children. That is why this intersection must be arranged, which will now be a crossroads, so that it will be safe for children to go to school safely. This is why we are making this amendment within the Slovenian Democratic Party to regulate this circle as envisaged two years ago and not to delay for the next period, because this is exactly what this new draft budget is for next year. That's why we're asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So also in this project under order number 5 it is a road infrastructure, namely a crossroad on the Slovenske Konjice highway - Celje, a breakaway for Zreče. This is the intersection that is the black point, especially when traffic gets a little more crowded, not with those famous spikes, but when traffic gets a little more crowded, because it is not possible or it is very difficult to turn left, and in all three directions, it is said from Zreč to Celje and also from Celje to Zreč. This intersection is regulated several times, but traffic is always ahead of schedule, and in the development of the Zreč and Zrečsko Pohorje, this is an increasingly black spot. And there is an increasing number of traffic accidents, and on the other hand, thank God that the Donetsks also develop industrially well so that there are also great needs for the transport of the materials and final products from Zreč, and this intersection is indeed a glass in development. It becomes particularly difficult during the winter tourist season, when many tourists, mainly from Hungary and Croatia, are brought to this area and there are real congestions and traffic accidents. Therefore, the construction of this intersection is necessary and not only is it necessary now, but it would have been necessary yesterday. The projects are ready, everything is ready, only this proposal for a new budget assumes that the construction already envisaged for next year would move for another two years, which is very difficult and difficult to understand, and we believe that this intersection is also one of those that would contribute to faster development, so we have tabled these amendments and ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the sixth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. So it is another road infrastructure building on the road Slovenske Konjice - Poljčane, in the village of Teping, where the connection to the highway is also there and that is why it goes. This circle is a good 100 meters away from the highway connection and along the traffic tip line the columns against the Slovenian Horses, which is even more problematic, traffic is almost impossible from the highway, this is a real exit from the highway almost impossible because such a column is accumulated because the turn left has no special belt. In addition, a cycling track has been built in this area, which has reached this facility, which will now be a circle, and this new project also regulates the cycling track, a safe passage for cyclists, also for pedestrians. The problem is even bigger because there is also a gas station next to this intersection, wrapped in a gas station or real art. The projects are also prepared here, and the call for proposals is already in place, but since the new draft budget for next year foresees a suspension of funding, the construction of this facility is under question. It is probably not necessary to stress that this facility is also in the service of the tourist economy, as well as the envisaged university in 2013, so that the construction of this circular is assumed to have been necessary, as planned years ago, and that is why I am also asking for support here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members, 33 to 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the 7th amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It's 340,000 euros for the so-called Goat Circle. I believe that many people don't even know where it is, and I also understand you, for a basic reason, because the place is quite remote. Whatever you are looking at, you will, in principle, come to Croatia rather than to Celje or Ljubljana. It'll take you almost an hour to get to Cele if you're going on any other side. For this reason, it is certainly such that these 340 000 Euros mean a lot, in fact, that this was already planned in the place or that we had already foreseen this in the budgets, but the coalition withdrew this from me for unknown reasons. In fact, the plans are ready, the spatial plans are based on my available information, so there is no reason why the matter could not be implemented in 2010. As a result, of course, I can say that in the past period something was done in this place from the point of view of roads, rehabilitation of beaches, etc., however, this is what this place still needs, so of course I am asking for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 30, for 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving under the same sub-programme, moving on to the decision on the 8th amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. But I have a lot of reasons to be optimistic about this amendment. In fact, it's only 150 000 euros here. So once less and a little less than the previous amendment. It is a question of reconstruction of the location of the road between Celje and Dobovac. It's the road we're driving on, at least the ones we're driving there, about an hour to get to the highway, and then on the highway to Ljubljana 45 minutes. It would be right, of course it is also one lane of the so-called third development axis, which is either way lagging behind. Of course I'm asking you here, especially for this support. In fact, one of the parties - Mr President, listen to me - your client has announced in a local newspaper that she will ensure the continuation of the construction, so I look forward to the result and control of my computer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the ninth amendment under the same sub-programme, proposed by the SDS Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a connection to the wider pohorst, the eastern part. It is the construction and modernisation of the road Cezlak - Pesek. You know, on Pesco, he splits off to Rogla, Lovrenc on Pohorje, and the next is a connection to the Cops. It is one of the central communications for the preparation of the University of Pohorje. This road also leads towards Areh, where we know that the main events will be at the Pohorje work. This part of the road is extremely difficult, so it was also somewhat neglected because it is also the most expensive part. Work will take place for several years. If we continued at this pace as planned years ago, then by 2013 when the university was going to take place, this could hardly be done. Therefore, we believe that delaying the implementation of these works for a year or two would not allow construction. For this part of Pohorje it is a main road, but it is in the role of a tourist economy and, as I have already said, it has an extremely important place in the organization of the University of Maribor, Ruša and Zreča in 2013. Given that everything is settled as far as the projects are concerned, the money was foreseen at a pace and this budget, if it is adopted without an amendment, will move away from the construction of this part of the road. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are moving on to the 10th amendment tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 11th amendment under this sub-programme tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 12th amendment under the same sub-programme tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Here is a proposal for an amendment to complete the missing part of the section on the Novo mesto-Kočevje road. It is a railway in the town of Stari Log, where 20 years ago, for unknown reasons, it broke down by construction and took the road through the village. Given that this road is one of the most dangerous in Slovenia - at least so you could have seen it in the media yesterday - this road should be arranged and avoided all the further potential dangers that are on this road. At the same time, it is also necessary to ensure that the road is completed and that it is made possible, given that this is a very important transit route, that freight traffic is fully carried over this populated area. I expect this amendment to be supported, for the greatest security gains are certainly settlements. This is significantly more important than balancing, say, some dangerous detail. The point is that the entire traffic connected to transit, and this on this road is not small, drives past the settlement at this entire section. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	Given that, at this stage, it is proposed to approve EUR 50 000 to repair or supplement the missing projects in order to prepare everything necessary for the continuation of the construction of the road, which could then be completed in the coming year, it is said in 2011 that a serious decision has been taken. I hope that there should probably be no problem in order to make such a relatively low amendment, which is urgently needed to start the works on this road, necessary in order not to get the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the thirteenth amendment proposed by the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fifteenth amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are moving on to the sixteenth amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. Excuse me. So, on the 15th you wanted to explain your voice? [[...]] Fifteenth. I'm sorry, the fifteenth amendment. Yes, I apologize for the fifteenth amendment. So, do you want an explanation of the voice or so, yes, thank you. [[...]] We are voting on the fifteenth amendment. Please, we're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sixteenth amendment under the same sub-programme tabled by the SDS Group. You want an explanation of the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. Yes, please, yes. Once you raise your hands to say how to vote, and once again to explain your voice. So, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I once raised my hand because you had misannounced. This amendment is one of those amendments that solves fundamental communication problems. This is actually an amendment to the 3a development axis. It's a bypass in the Skofljica area. If you follow a daily notice, it is one of those sections of state roads that is most burdened in this country. It is followed by about 20, 22 thousand vehicles a day and, in fact, the problem is that major congestions are constant. We propose an increase of EUR 700 000 in order to continue activities by preparing spatial documentation, by adopting a national location plan to implement land management, agricultural land, for example, possible comassation, then the protected animal species would also produce areas for the relocated butterfly, which in this area is designated as a natural heritage, or this area is classified as a natural heritage, as a result of this in the Natura 2000 area. I would like to remind you that in 2004, when a national programme for the construction of motorways was adopted, this amendment was accepted by you to include this section in the national programme for the construction of motorways. You have hung on this program all developmental axes and additional projects, about the rebellion of mayors in various Slovenian regions. Only a month or two later, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted Natura 2000, where only this amendment was eliminated by the National Nature 2000 project. Why this happened, you might be able to answer someone else, but there is no reason why activities on this project do not continue, is one. In fact, the basic section that opens the fishing area opens the Kočevje, Kočevsko region and this is probably why it is also a fundamental amendment besides one that follows to improve the communication, development and other opportunities of the region. If we are really up to the development of areas, if we are really up to opening up areas, if we really are up to equal opportunities and to coherent regional development, then the coalition should have no reason not to vote against this amendment. As we say, we will support this amendment in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 to 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 2423 Directorate for Investment Management JJI. In the sub-programme Investment activities on railway infrastructure, we have one amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, SDS, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment means the reimbursement of the resources necessary for the renewal of the railway line from Grosuplja to Ortnek to the Repositories of the oil derivatives of the Republic of Slovenia. In the previous term, as you know, we have adopted the Guarantees Act, where we have also included the renewal of this railway line in this law and the reconstruction of this railway has also been made. We now propose that these funds, which have been exempted from this investment, should be returned and made possible to enable this line to be adapted for freight transport, for transport safety, so to speak, for all the signal - the protection of the device and also for the provision of passenger traffic on this track. It is also a project that continues from the previous mandate to not only listen to the impressions that nothing has been done in the previous mandate and that we have done nothing for individual areas, individual projects; we have done, but unfortunately, the coalition in this mandate or the Government has done that the funds earmarked for such investments, which are vital to economic development, for equitable development, including for the unloading of important sections, have been exempted. And it appears that if this amendment is not supported, this project will be completed halfway. I believe that it is justified to expect this amendment to be supported. It is not only enough that we have the full mouth of the words of coherent regional development to say what should be done in order to open up some areas in order to ensure the conditions for economic development. There is something that needs to be done when concrete proposals are on the table. I appreciate that there is a Member from this area, who is in coalition, among us, in order to be able to provide enough votes to make such amendments as the opening of the Shkofljica, or this project of railway infrastructure or the Old Log bypass, or the following approach to the Mine Lake project, in order to obtain the appropriate agreement. I think such expectations are normal. This is not about who suggested anything, it is about what is necessary for an area, and it is essential that things take place. I hope that support for this amendment will not be left behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2511 Ministry of Environment and Space under the Sub-programme Environmental Improvement. We vote on the first amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to draw attention here to the drinking water supply project in Pomure. We will probably all remember that we have talked a lot about this project in the consideration of the Pomour Act not long ago, and that 90 million are foreseen for this project, through which this project is expected to be implemented in the coming years. Unfortunately, the 2010 and 2011 budget totals, as far as I have been able to sum up, only €800,000 spent on fighting for this drinking water supply project. The reasons were so and so different that it would be a reallocation if the project continued well or if the dynamics of preparation, documentation and so on were to go as planned. I can't imagine how we're going to be 90 million -- I'd understand if we were talking about a million, two, three, four, five to solve this with redistribution. But I can't imagine how 90 million hard projects will be redistributed in one way or another and looking for funds when this is necessary for the realisation of this project. I expect that in the budget we will provide these funds to the extent that we have been so loud and vehement in the Pomura law, where we have carried this project and have also allocated 90 million to it, that this is automatically reflected also in the 2010 and 2011 budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the 2nd amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the third amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the 5th amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the 6th amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the 7th amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The mining lake in Kočev is the largest area in this southern part between Ljubljana and the river Kolpo. Apparently, this lake is a huge opportunity to exploit potential, both for tourist purposes and consequently for the economic development of Kočevje, including the Fishermen and the wider environment. The funds would simply be earmarked for this or set up to start in this area with a systematic approach, with projects for environmental management, including infrastructure regulation. However, I think that this approach is completely logical and normal, since Kočevje is one of those municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia that have the highest unemployment rate. Exploiting the potential of the Mine Lake in Kočev could greatly help to improve the poor social structure, poor economic structure and also significantly improve employment, both in recreational activities and in economic work, in catering, tourism and so on. By confirming this item, we would put in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia a project to plan problems management in Kočevska as well. I believe that, in fact, it is fundamental that the Republic of Slovenia, to those environments which have potential, may not have been exploited, and that these ideas have not yet reached the appropriate addresses in the Republic of Slovenia to support such an amendment, to include the matter in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and then in the development programme plan below, and thus to allow a systematic approach to the implementation of a perspective in an area that is, as it is said, handicapped, at least like Pomurje. This potential must certainly also be exploited in areas where everything looks like there is no perspective and where the only advantage of these areas is the border with Croatia. I am convinced that there is much to be done in these areas, even if infrastructure activities can also be undertaken, in the area of accession or transport in Škofljica, the construction or upgrading of the railway line, civil and passenger transport training as well as for rail tourism. In short, there are also potentials in this area. Not much to take [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	take advantage and there are some positive trends. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	With the proposed amendment, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to increase funds for the European project. The European project, financed by European funds, is a waste water disposal and treatment project in the central and upper Ljubljana basin area with the working title Clean Ljubljana. The municipalities of Borovnica, Brezovica, Cerknica, Logatec, Pivka, Postojna, Škofljica and Vrhnika have invested a lot of money and resources to be properly connected to the sewage network with upgraded modern sewage systems and cleaning facilities by 2015, 51,000 inhabitants, that is 14,000 inhabitants more. The explanation given by the Government in its explanation, when the amendment rejects, is simple that these projects are not sufficiently prepared. However, on the question of when one of the municipalities, namely the Logan municipality, obtained a building permit for the construction of a cleaning plant in Logatco, which is also part of this project, this is obviously not enough for the Government. The Secretary of State himself, on the Committee on the Environment and the Area where the budget was addressed, as well as later in the debate on the amendments, found that meetings had been held, that they would consider what and how the amendment was to be included in the budget accordingly. So briefly, he said on the Committee on Environment and Space a government representative. I suggest we support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric, in his own name? Does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the parliamentary groups? He doesn't want to. Mr. Anton Kolarič, explanation of vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the proposed amendment. I'm just gonna say it right now. The proposed amendment refers, as was said, to the Clean Ljubljanica project. This project is very important for the surroundings of Ljubljana and for Ljubljana alone, but in a form like this, it probably cannot get support. It is funding from the European Union and at the same time an appropriate part of its own participation must be provided for such a project. The proposed amendment, however, reduces the integral domestic resources in 2011 and increases Slovenia's participation and European work. As I know, the reallocation between these purposes is not possible, it is said, between integral work and European funds, and such an amendment cannot be supported at this time. The Government, however, has the opportunity to include this project in programmes in accordance with existing legislation in 2010 and in accordance with the dynamics of the implementation of this project. In the coming years, however, we will see what is happening to this project. The fact is, there has been a lot of work done in this area, but all matters have not yet been completed and work needs to be done in steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me! An explanation of the voice on your behalf, Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Your Honor! I won't support the amendment. Both this amendment and others in this user are thus intended primarily for the weakening of another budgetary user. And I don't understand this any differently than some things want to be settled, but in the second part, it will weaken those users where, at least I suppose from the forecast of the last time I'm reading various contributions in the media, there is still a need to ensure that all the conditions in the judiciary are met so that they can do their job when some events are announced. At the same time, I mean that I have the feeling that it is actually about weakening one user more than it is about strengthening another, that it can carry out certain tasks, and that what has been said in the debate is that precisely for this project, the Ljubljanica river basin can also ensure that the investment is carried out in all the parts where the securities provided where the conditions are provided. However, I think that the title I specifically spoke of does not take on justice, which in the near future will still need money to solve those cases that obviously the Slovenian public are waiting and are also interested in.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you very much. If it's still an interest, I'd like to ask you to report it. May I have peace in the hall? Explanation of voice Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	Well, of course I'll support this amendment. This is one of the cohesion projects that is ready to begin operationally with great dynamics in the area of several municipalities, not only in the area of logistics, but also in the area of the municipal beer municipality. Here I have letters from the mayors of Ljubljana - everything from Ljubljana to Pivka who are appalled at what is now foreseen in the 2010 and 2011 budget. After all these years, these projects have been carried out to the extent that they are now expected to take place more intensively in 2010. All permits, projects, consents have been drawn to the fact that building permits have now been obtained in certain cases. This project is not only important because of the river Ljubljanica and clean drinking water, it is also important because of the possibility of future care of the coast and Kras, because cleaning the area that is flowing into the source of Malnik near Planina opens up a broader potential, which is extremely strategically important for the future water supply of the coastal area. I think that these funds, which have been foreseen and guaranteed in all years and where they are mostly European funds, are so small compared to the potential that the implementation of the project means that there is a strategic error if this amendment is not adopted. It is also one of the rare cohesion projects where procedures are brought to such a stage that it is also technically able to start tomorrow. They do not claim that the project is still envisaged in some documents, I also have a letter from the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and a space where it is explicitly written that it will have to be examined how, if this amendment is not adopted, it will be possible to resolve what can be resolved. However, I fear that nothing will be done if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present. 30 votes to 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the ninth amendment under the same sub-programme, the proposed amendment is the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 10th amendment under the same sub-programme. The amendment was submitted by the SDS Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	Respectable. The Gorki project is a project that Gorenje has been preparing for many years and touches on environmental issues, in particular the quality of water, which is estimated by many to be a key strategic issue of the further development and quality of life of people in the third millennium. This applies to all Gornje municipalities, since it covers the area practically from Kranjska Gora via Jesenic, Radovljica and Kranja all the way to Ljubljana, because Sava runs south, and of course everything that burdens the environment in Gorenjska, then it also burdens the environment in Ljubljana and throughout Posavje, and then directly across the border to the Black Sea. Therefore, it is a very strange story that this project, which has already been foreseen in previous budgets, has disappeared briefly and slightly in the first draft of the budget, with all its items. Only after I, with the help of some of the Gorenje media, the gold of the Gorenje voice, for which I sincerely thank them can the public draw attention to this problem, has the knowledge of the importance of this project awakened again and the project has returned to the budget, at least in its basic items, which unfortunately says much about the way in which this coalition and its people work. However, it is crucial that this project, which is said to be unrelated to one municipality, is not linked to local elections, as is the obvious decision concerning those I have presented before, but is a project of all-ordinary and even all-Slovenian importance, which is carried out to the end. However, this project, which is linked to the European funds and the amendment we are proposing, merely reserves the funds envisaged in a transparent manner, the funds to be made available by the State of Slovenia from its budget so that these European funds can then be obtained, of course, on a substantially larger scale, up to four times as much as those contributed by the State. This is the amount that allows for the indisputable acquisition of these additional European grants, which is certainly in the common interest of the whole of Slovenia. I would also like to point out that this amendment is related to another amendment, which is at least so important in the 2011 budget, as it is a matter of regulating the water supply of Krvavec and the Gorka project, which will only be fully revived if it is indeed fully regulated if the renovations of all the water pipelines are carried out, all the treatment plants and, therefore, the regulated environment and thus the improved quality of life of all those living in this region and throughout the Sava basin in Slovenia and also across borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 34, for 38. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 2523 - Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, under the sub-programme Planning, Water Management Protection. We are voting on the amendment tabled by the SLS Group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 31, for 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 2711 - Ministry of Health, within the sub-programme Health and demographically endangered areas. We are voting on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you. Slovenian healthcare is becoming increasingly difficult, especially in the area of primary health. For a new way of financing or a changed way, which was unilaterally modified by the Government during the summer months, is the so-called annex number 1, which brings great financial difficulties to health homes, as well as to concessionaires. Today, many health homes face financial problems, and by the end of the year, most of these health homes are forecasting losses, and some concessionaires will have to return concessions because the amount allocated does not allow them to do business anymore. However, the problem will be much greater in the next year 2010. In particular, this problem is reflected in an area that is demographically threatened. Therefore, with this minimum amount, which we are essentially returning in the period 2009 when the past government has already committed itself to providing health care in demographically threatened areas, we want to make it possible, in this way at least in part, to facilitate the financing of protection in such areas by means of these funds. The explanation given by the Government that this particular area is being governed in a different way is, of course, far from enough, even if there are other ways, this does not allow. Such a minimum of EUR 330 000, I think, above all, is evidence that we are hearing that in demographicly threatened areas, it is trying to mitigate the difficult financial situation in which our health is coming, especially for those with difficult access to health care. I hope there's enough sense in this amendment to get support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you. Anyone else want an explanation on behalf of the groups? He doesn't want to. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I myself will support this amendment, which provides some money for the health care of the population, which is demographically threatened or in areas where the population is under demographic threat. Last week, I myself asked the Minister of Health a written question concerning the granting of concessions to doctors in these remote areas, which might only attract doctors a little more to work in these areas. I got the answer that this is just a transfer of doctors from one outpatient to another and that this way these remote outpatients will not be provided. Therefore, it is in this amendment that I see the means to stimulate doctors in the public service to work in these remote clinics. As an example, I'm referring to an ambulance, a medical station in Planina near Sevnica, which is 17 kilometers from Šentjur and has over 100 years of infirmary. Two years ago, the doctor retired and now they're working two pensioners. In our view, we have a doctor who has a financial stimulus challenge to work in this infirmary. If there are no concessions, however, I see in this amendment those funds which would, however, allow the employment of doctors in these demographically endangered areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to 3211, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, where we are deciding under the sub-programme on the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. At the time of this amendment, the whole coalition will be tested, in particular the broading of how this budget is development-oriented, how much it invests in research and development, and how much the future of Slovenia invests in science, development and thus in much added value. Dolenjska, Novo mesto, where we have established a university of state in the previous term and where admission places are fully occupied, where the economy urgently needs a higher education, educated profile of staff, now also needs appropriate infrastructure. And at that time, it was predicted that, once this university was established, appropriate infrastructure would have to be provided in the coming years. This 150,000-euro amendment, which is small compared to the entire budget, would allow the management of the faculty to start preparing documentation that will only allow the building of the infrastructure necessary for the development of this faculty in the coming years, as well as those new ones that this part of Slovenia intends to establish. This region achieves the highest profit per capita, over €6,000 per year, which means that there is an extremely developed economy here. However, this economy needs a highly educated workforce, so we need to enable it to do so. That is why we will now see whether this small money will be a demonstration of good will, so that documentation can be prepared here, which will allow this higher education space to begin to develop. We will see if you are really what you have been stressing in your discussions all along, now you are also actually ready to prove it through such actions. I'm afraid not, but I think your credibility is already so shaken that now is an opportunity to at least partially try to prove that you're serious. I'm afraid not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 40. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We come to user 3311 - Ministry of Education and Sport within the sub-programme Vrtci. We first decide on the first amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the second amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme - Primary education. Under this sub-programme, we are voting on the first amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Excuse me, excuse me. We have already voted on this amendment. We are now moving to the sub-programme - aid in secondary education. Wait a minute! It's like I said. Explanation of voice. We are voting under the sub-programme Primary Education, on the second amendment, submitted by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The project for the construction of primary school and kindergarten in Mirna Peca is based on the 1999 tender. The school is in such a state that it has so far failed to obtain a valid permit. The project has been coordinated with the Ministry of Education and Sport all the time, also in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Regulation. The municipality has so far invested in the project itself to produce the project and documentation and acquire the necessary land over a million euros. So far, the congregation is not in charge because it has been counting on this investment all along and we have not been able to put ourselves in charge of other projects. The Ministry of Education and Sport now allocates only enough resources for this project to barely exceed the value added tax of the entire project. The proposed amendment does not modify the budgetary expenditure on the sub-programme but merely transfers from funds not used for the 2009 tender, which are carried over to 2010. The amendment only means compliance with the applicable law on the financing of municipalities. If the municipality does not obtain these funds, the project cannot start or close the financial structure and must either leave it or sue the State for funds that go to it under the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Therefore, I ask you to support this amendment, because I think certain actions have already been initiated, right after this law on the financing of municipalities, and it is better that we do not do any harm here if we redistribute these funds and rescue one of the many projects needed to build kindergartens and primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to the subroutine - Help in secondary school. We are voting on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 3511 - Ministry of Culture within the sub-programme of the Investment in Culture. We are voting on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 27. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 27. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. I ask for a little attention in the Chamber, after all, we are voting on the budget. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	The proposal is harmonised and does not need harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Since the draft budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 27. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the 2011 supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the Complementary Draft Budget. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 29. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving to User 1537, Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Under the sub-programme, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Moving to User 1611, Ministry of Finance. Within the framework of the sub-programme of State Obligations to STIZ, we decide on the amendment of the SLS Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to User 2311, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Under the sub-programme on the regulation of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, we are voting on the amendment tabled by the SLS Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user 2415 Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Under the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads, we are voting on the first amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[It's 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the third amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I hope you won't mind if I explain four amendments at the same time. Just so I recall, given that I already explained four amendments to the 2010 budget under order 4, 5, 6 and 8. It is a crossroad on the road of Slovenske Konjice - Celje, called the intersection in Lipa, the breakaway for Zreče and then the intersection on the road of Slovenske Konjice - Poljčane in Tepanje near the highway section. The amendment number 8 is the modernization and reconstruction of the road Cezlak - Pesek. Since I explained in detail already in 2010, I will not torture you with this, just ask for support in order numbers 4, 5, 6 and 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the sixth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the seventh amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the ninth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the 10th amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is no longer the same as it used to be when a number of things have been built in a forward-looking way, such as the Shamac-Saraje line or Brcko-Banović line. Things must now be placed in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia if we want the projects to begin. We suggest that the Kočevska area in the south be arranged with a bypass in Old Log. We suggest opening the Kočevska area in the north with a bond on Škofljica to build and train for freight and passenger transport railway to Kočev. And in this 2011 budget, we are also offering an idea to address the economic situation in this area - to train the Lake Rudnik. In short, if you want anything done on these projects to be done in the southern Slovenia area, so-called what to do, then certain amendments proposed should be adopted. Without money, and only with goodwill can it go away. Sometimes this was possible when we had some good brigades, punches, then it was possible, but now the situation is different, the time is different, and it is necessary to provide adequate financial resources to make projects to stop studies and then start further with concrete activities in these areas. Otherwise, unfortunately, it's not possible. I note, however, that of all the amendments proposed for the 2010 and 2011 budget, and not many, the distinguished President of the National Assembly and the respected Government, not one of them is capable of supporting and setting up a new project in any area or raising funds. In short, one gets the feeling that we have an ideal government in difficult situations and an ideal coalition that can do anything. I hope, however, that if you do not support these amendments in the next vote, that God's help will be favored and that you will save these projects in a different way, if possible, even impactively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Janko Weber, please, SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Well, I kind of thank you for your attention, for trying to accelerate investment in Kočevska. And the amendments proposed by the SDS Group show this in a very appropriate form. However, I would like to point out that, before such an amendment is written, it is necessary to harmonise, agree whether this is actually appropriate in the way envisaged. In fact, taking the means to build a part of the road to the District Court in Kočev is a somewhat awkward matter. In fact, one of the projects that we are planning together with the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration and the Municipality of Kočevje is also the administration of the administrative centre in Kočev and it would be reckless to disable another project with one project because the effect would be null and void or at least complicate life even more than it can be complicated at this point. It is therefore not possible to harmonise this amendment because it is not coordinated between the programmes and the activities already under way in order to resolve certain problems in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Do you want to explain your vote in your own name? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not unusual if you want to say something in your own name. I would like to add that in this particular amendment, we do not assume that funds are being taken at the District Court in Kočev, but in Ljubljana. I think it's the District Court in Ljubljana. I think it's important. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u225	I ask peace in the hall and I beg that there is no controversy and there can be no debate. Please just explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u226	Explanation of voice. Sure. We are assuming that some material resources can also be reduced in the context of the reduction of public administration spending, in the public sector, and in this case, it is possible at the District Court in Ljubljana to reduce the item which is relatively high for small 100,000 euros. I assume that rationalisation is also possible there and that this reduction in the costs of the District Court in Ljubljana is significantly lower than the effects would have been if it were actually built on this section. I propose and support always a solution if, from the material costs for the functioning of the administration, for a coordinating task or anything else, the funds can be transferred into an investment project. That's all it brings. Everything else is pure consumption. That is why this amendment, as well as the others that we have tabled in our Group of Members, I support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the 11th amendment under the same sub-programme, the drafter of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the 12th amendment under the same sub-programme. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 34, for 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the 13th amendment under the same sub-programme, the amendment was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 34, for 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the 14th amendment under the same sub-programme. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 to 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. May I have peace and quiet and attention in the hall? We are moving to user 2423 - Directorate for Investment Management of JJI, under the Sub-programme Investment Activities on Rail Infrastructure. We are voting on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. Excuse me, abort. I'm sorry. I was too quick, I was just looking at the proposaler's side of the amendment, so here I think it was right that I broke up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. In my own name. Someone would like to explain their vote on behalf of the groups of Members. [[He doesn't want to.]] An explanation of the voice in your own name? Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you. This amendment also speaks of a nomadic railway line. Let me say that higher funds are foreseen, higher than actually recorded here, 6 million euros, because it has a different phase and a resource to do so are actually maintenance works for public benefit and investment in railway infrastructure, so this amendment is not necessary and I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tanko, on your own behalf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you very much. You know, in this case, when we deal with the budget, we are deciding on a complete amendment and a situation that will actually happen if the amendment is adopted. But what's supposed to be a law that's going to be filed later, if it's going to be, is things that are fairy tales to come. I would like to remind you that we have already introduced a law on railway renewal a few days ago. This section is also covered in the following section. This will only happen after 2012, when there are opportunities for a proposer. There's no way out of this before. However, we have proposed that certain funds should be allocated in 2010, 2011 and that, if the law is adopted, from 2012 to 2025, when this law is in force, these matters should also be upgraded. Unfortunately, just deal with some amendments to make a suggestion when he suggests it, I don't think it's possible. For what is proposed, it is also necessary to have a basis in the budget act. And today we are faced with the fact that we are deciding on these matters. This is an act that will be in force in 2011. We have specific amendments. It is also right to define these specific issues. What is a vision, however, will then be up to date when this vision comes on paper in a bill, which will be in line with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if so, or if there is any other way to proceed. But today the situation is that we decide what we have on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 2511, Ministry of Environment and Space, under the Sub-programme Environmental Improvement. We vote on the first amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are deciding on the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we decide on the third amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are deciding on the fourth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you. This amendment speaks of the start of activities on the mining lake in Kočev, and is allocated 100,000 euros for that purpose. Once again, I would like to point out that funds are being taken in district courts. There is a county court in Kočev, and it also has an office in Ribnica. Secondly, of course, this investment has already started and there is a million and 300,000 euros. So again, if we are trying to express some common interest, it is imperative that we really agree on one another. This amendment is not necessary because we already have an initial funding of EUR 300,000. However, it will be welcome to discuss, of course, the following amounts, which will still be needed for this lake. However, I would like to point out that it does not make sense for us to take part in a district court, which is an extremely important institution for this environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you very much. If you read the amendment correctly and read where the funds are being taken [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u235	No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u236	We would then find that it says that funds are being taken for the functioning of the District Court in Ljubljana. [[..]] This has nothing to do with what my colleague says. However, I would like to say that under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia it is necessary to provide this project, which is obviously an important development opportunity in this southern part of the Republic of Slovenia, but is located in the area of the Municipality of Kočevje, also a legal budget source. I don't think it's most appropriate for things to go by and more or less just through some other matter. It is necessary for these matters to be placed in the budget and, on the basis of this, also matters to be upgraded and regulated. We propose that, in addition to regulating the environment, this project should also involve a comprehensive other matter. However, it would be right to confirm this item already in the 2010 budget, since it is certainly not harmful for the local area in which this lake is located and to which this amendment is intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the sixth amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u238	Have a nice hello again. I stressed the importance of the GORKI project earlier, this is called water management, the Sava basin in Gorenjska. And its essential component was the entire planning of all the years of planning this project, including the bloodstream. Do not let your name fool you, this is not a water supply that would be crucial only to the congregation of Cerklje. From this part of the mountain feeds practically the entire northern part of the gravitational area of the city of Ljubljana. And this pipeline is an essential component of the network of pipelines of the entire area between Kranje and Ljubljana, all the way to the Austrian border. As a result of this, water regulation, water quality conservation in this area and adequate water supply arrangements are essential for the implementation of the entire project. This part is also linked to international funds. However, the adoption of this amendment is even more important, because when my amendment, which has been fully regulated and the amendment of the honourable colleague Mencinger, was rejected, the Government explained that this was reasonably taken into account in the budgets currently proposed. But you won't find this line in there. The question is, therefore, whether the coalition Members have not been slightly misled in this part. For this reason this item should also be returned to the budget in order to allow the preparation to continue and, at the final stage, also the implementation of the European funds to address the problem, which is important for human health in the entire northern gravitational area of the city of Ljubljana and the whole southern part of Gorenjska, you will be supported by this amendment in order to return this item to the budget, as was in fact guaranteed and promised. It's questionable to handle it later on with the rebalans. You know there's going to be an even more difficult situation at the time, so there's going to be more needs. Now is a good time, and timely action is essential for these things to continue at all. And I would like to remind you that all of this is related to those European funds that are irreparable and unique and which will not be used indefinitely, but are only available for a few years. If we are precise, by 2013 at the latest, then this source and this development potential will be no more. It's about human health.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh, on behalf of the delegation or on his own behalf? Anyone else want to do it on behalf of the MPs? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his own name, Mr. Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, what my colleague Grimes just said does not keep in perfect condition. The program, the bitters, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u241	Comrade Urh, it's not a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u242	I will not support this amendment. I will explain that the GORCI programme is in the budget and the GORCI programme is also in the NRPs. It is true, however, that there is no bloodstream in this, and it is ensured by the Government that this bloodstream, when it obtains the documentation, will enter the NRPs and the budget at the first rebalancing if it has documentation at that time. The GORKI programme for the entire Gorenjska, Upper Gorenjska and Poljanska valley, Kranjskoskoskojska, is entirely 78 million, in the budget and in the NRPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Planning for water protection and water management. Under this sub-programme, we have one amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 2523 - Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Sub-programme Planning for Water Protection and Management. We have an amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 2711 - Ministry of Health. Under the sub-programme Health in demographicly threatened areas, we have an amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 3311 - Ministry of Education and Sport, sub-programme Vrtci. We have an amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the primary school subroutine. We decide on the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Secondary Education Aid Sub-programme, where we are deciding on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 3511, Ministry of Culture, where under the Sub-Investment in Culture sub-programme we are deciding on the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the SDS! We certainly cannot support this budget in the SDS Group. On the revenue side, this budget reflects only all the missed opportunities of this government and this coalition to face the economic crisis in an appropriate, prudent and reasonable manner. In some ways, the revenue side of the budget reflects the old knowledge that it is most destructive when ignorance and incompetence combine with arrogance and puffiness. Otherwise, it is impossible to understand the fact that at a single meeting the ruling coalition rejects 63 proposals for strengthening the Slovenian economy, even those that would not become one euro of taxpayers' money and would only facilitate the situation of Slovenian entrepreneurship, in particular small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, allow for good foundations for further development. On the expenditure side, however, there is a marked difference between words, the coalition programme and actions with only the content of the budget. Just an example. This budget provides the money for the salaries of as many as 25 top government officials, who have been paid by the Government for a total of five salary classes in all the savings talk. On the other hand, the budget does not provide for the full implementation of the statutory obligations for young families, large families, children, disabled persons, pensioners. How vast is the difference between the words and the actions of the ruling coalition? In fact, the only positive contribution of this budget is that precisely because it reflects this difference between words and actions of the current government in such a way that it helps to shape and strengthen political culture in Slovenia. This realization that the election of left-wings means the tightening of the tax screw, the gradual closing of the economy and the deterioration of the quality of life is certainly something that Slovenia must clearly recognize in this act. We could learn exactly the same story from the case of neighbouring Austria and all other European countries. But Slovenia has decided in the last elections as it is, and people are always right. At least to strengthen political culture, this will certainly be valuable. But that's certainly not the reason. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 29. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u246	The 2011 budget proposal is harmonised and does not need a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Since the draft budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, for 44, for 29. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 27th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few minutes ago, I received a magnetogram or a copy of the 2010 budget voting procedure. I note that Amendment 14 has not been discussed or voted on by the Slovenian Directorate for Transport. Now I want to know how you're going to act in this case. I suggest you stop the meeting, see what can be done in this area. It's in a magnetogram. There was neither debate nor explanation of vote nor vote on amendment 14 of the Transport Directive 2010 RS. I suggest you stop the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u249	I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes, so we can figure it out. What happened?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u250	Colleagues and fellow Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing our session. First, an explanation for what was said. First, we must say that we voted on all the amendments, including 14, 15 and 16; at 14. - 14:12:16, 15. - 14:13:05 and 16. - 2:17 p.m. What happened is actually more, we're still checking, but it's possible that lapsus was said at 14 that we were on the 15th amendment. However, it can be seen that we also voted on the 15th and 16th amendments. Voting was carried out and there is no need for either the re-voting or the opening of these matters. It may have been my lapsus, but we're still checking it out. There's no discussion about that, Mr. Tanko. I will give you procedurally if you want anything else, but the will of Members here is clearly established and we will not open the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u251	Dear President! You're just going to interpret it the way you're going to. You have a voting majority guaranteed in any case. The coalition acts firmly and firmly. However, it is clear from the magnetogram that the vote on the 14th amendment was dropped. That's clearly clear. It's on record. What is also clear is that we voted twice on the 15th amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u252	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u253	If I can read a tape, and I'm probably literate enough and experienced enough to read it, then I'm warning you about that second part that we voted twice on the 15th Amendment. One day 71 were present and voted 31 and 40. And that's what you announced. And the second time, 74 attended and voted in favour of 29, against 44. But Amendment 14 has not been put into debate, nor has it been done about this explanation of vote. That's beyond doubt. Nor was it voted on. The will of the majority, it is the will of the President to decide on this, but I point out that this conclusion, which you have just said to address the 2010 budget problem, is not correct. Because it doesn't follow the material things that are recorded in the magnetogram that I got after the vote on the table. Unfortunately, it doesn't go any faster, there's no floor reading, there's no floor magnetogram, it's done with a delay of 10, 15 minutes. Unfortunately, this was all carried out after the vote. I hope you're aware of the weight of the decision you're about to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have closely followed and voted on these amendments. And that was the only amendment I supported, of all the amendments. You can check at exactly 14.12 and 16 seconds. You can check, this was the 14th Amendment to the Roads Directive, related to the 4th Development Axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I reiterate that the votes on all the amendments have been carried out. I'm guessing because I haven't seen the record, there's been a failure to predict one of the amendments. I also conclude this debate with this. We continue with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled in the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 25.11.2009. I shall put to the vote Article 22 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. Just a minute. We have to repeat the vote. So the vote was correct. He's here. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] I apologize, I have received a notice from the technical services that the apparatus did not work properly, so we will repeat the vote on the amendment to Article 22 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 33. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 39 of the SLS, SDS and SNS. We're voting. The vote is under way. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the amendments proposed were not proposed in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u257	Since no amendment has been adopted, we will be in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group against this law. Under this law, it is not only a technical law, but a law that has a number of important substantive issues. One of the most important and difficult is the enormous increase in the country's indebtedness. The volume of debt increases to 3.6 billion in 2010, to EUR 2 billion 800 million in 2011, the volume of guarantees in 2010 amounts to EUR 2 billion 450 million and EUR 2 billion in 2011. The level of public sector debt at national level is 2 billion in 2010 and a billion 200 million euros in 2011. In the case of these figures, therefore, the figures which will lead Slovenia from one of the least indebted countries in the European Union, as we were last year, within a relatively short period of two years to one of the most indebted countries in the European Union. If the public debt in 2008 was extremely low - 21.5% of gross domestic product and decreased from 28% to 21.5% throughout the previous government period, this debt is already increasing to 32.5% of gross domestic product this year and will be close to 50% of gross domestic product in the next two years. The repayment of interest will amount to more than EUR 600 million per year. This means that Slovenia will be in a position where there will be no more possibility of investing new projects, when only what will happen under this law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budget will have to be repaid. This is a poor black scenario, a scenario that speaks of Slovenia significantly lagging behind other countries in its development. We know that by 2008, we have grown at least 3% faster than the average of the European Union, and we know that now, after a bad year, we are falling once more faster than the average of the European Union. The second reason why this Zipra cannot be supported is because of the unequal position of the municipalities. This law regulates by force the funds which are granted to the municipalities, beyond what both associations want, and on the other hand, in the National Assembly, we will soon decide that Mr Jankovic will be granted additional funds from the same address. So Ljubljana is subject to one of the rules of the game, or Mr Jankovic, and all 209 municipalities in the country are subject to the other rules of the game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Is there any other parliamentary group that would like to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation of voice in your own name, Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u259	Thank you. Despite the fact that I have said in explanation of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget that the Slovenian National Party will push the quorum in the decision-making process, I will personally oppose Zipra, in particular because of the unaccepted amendment to Article 39. Why is it likely that other colleagues, who are also involved in the lives of the local community, can confirm this because the real budget from 2009 to 2010 has fallen by almost 20%? I'm thinking that, contrary to the state, we're not going to "bubble." We already have 70% of the social buffers, and because of the measures you've confirmed today, this 70% will become 80% of social transfers, with 20% of the smaller budget you can peacefully calculate what will remain for investments in the local community. Of course, we will push the country, it will give us nothing, and next year we will face a collapse and this big one, in local communities. This is only because any change in the average and debt of this government with both representatives of local communities could bring at least a partial solution. This is personal proof to me that there is no will and that there is no reflection on the fact that it is not only that narrow round of the state budget, but that the state budget is even more, that the state budget is the life of local communities, the life of regions, the development of regions, and that, last but not least, this money circulates from the country to a lower level and from a lower level back to the country. It's a spiral down. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u260	Since there's still a desire to explain, I'm asking you to apply. Voice explanation, Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u261	Thank you. I will also vote against the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years. I base my vote on similar arguments as the predecessor, given that amendments relating to two critical points were not adopted, on the one hand, on debt and on the other hand on guarantees. Above all, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned that, within the framework of the state budget, we have been able to recognize that social transfers are the category that has grown most within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are policy-makers in many areas that cannot be affected. These policies are thus in the field of child care, where on the one hand we look forward to increased enrolment in kindergartens, and this does not mean the construction of new kindergartens, and on the other hand, because of the decline in the salaries of the population, the part that municipalities pay for the difference in price increases from day to day, from month to month. Another critical issue is the health insurance of unemployed persons, which is the burden of the congregation, as well as the increase in the number of unemployed persons. Also subsidising rents for low-income residents and ultimately also wages, which we have already talked about today. Unfortunately, we are not the ones who can determine the amount of wages, because wages are agreed in collective agreements and we know that they have more growth than average growth. In the Slovenian People's Party, we wanted to find a middle way between what the associations wanted and what the Government proposed. And this middle path was 3.9% growth, unlike the government, which insisted on slightly more than 1% growth. This is just evidence that the power of the congregations will be reduced. I fear that drawing on European funds, where the municipalities have so far been one of the best exercises in which we have been able to do this pumping, will be at risk because there will simply be no more money for our own parity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, representatives of the Government! Those who support the implementation of the budget today - of course I will not - will be mistaken twice. For the first time, because the 2010 budget will not be able to implement the one it was adopted, because it will be after the spring increase in unemployment, which is what is happening and will be even more drastic in this crisis, which is due to the fact that this government is still accelerating it, so it will not be able to implement itself and a balance will have to be drawn up. As far as the 2011 budget is concerned, it is one way or another on unrealistic grounds. In view of the fact that one important, essential basis has not been adopted today, which would reduce the debt by almost €800 million, and thus somehow put the budget in a bearable position with respect to debt, not as it is now, with between 11% and 13% more in debt than it has in tax revenue and owes over 30% in terms of state GDP. Given that one amendment has not been adopted for a small million euro for Slovenians around the world and also for a protection allowance for farmers who have worked their entire lives and have pensions below the poverty threshold, such a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget is impossible to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u265	I will vote against this law because it means the substantive implementation of the budget and makes it possible for it to be implemented, which has proved to be highly political in the vote on the amendments, as all the opposition's proposals have been rejected, contrary to the promises once made to seek consensus and partnership. However, the policy that reflects it has proved to be a policy that fosters fundamental values such as human security, development, economic development and even human health. I will vote against it because this law will allow the budget to be realized even in the part that provides for 25 senior government officials five classes of higher salary, but does not guarantee the realization of legal rights for children, large families, pensioners of disabled persons. I will vote against it because I do not want to legitimize those government policies that stem from the fact that I have said it from this huge difference between words and actions that will make any other ruling coalition talk about social justice or social equality, and we will only be able to see it with a smile as Orwellian. You know an animal farm, all animals are the same, only pigs are the same as the others. That's your policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 29. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on medical devices. On Thursday, 20 November, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 128(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I understand that two amendments have been tabled. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 53. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Stefan Tissell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will vote against this amendment to Article 53 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, although it supports the law. Why would she vote against it? Since this amendment nullifies the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which was adopted in the second reading and relates to Article 53, paragraph 7, which deals with the sale of medical devices in other shops, it is not said that it is in pharmacies, not in special stores, but in other shops where, under Article 53, the sale or sale of medical devices which do not need to be accompanied by instructions in the packaging and we have added a sentence that the safe use of medical devices does not require professional advice and medical devices which prevent the transmission of communicable diseases.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u268	Please be careful in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u269	And since the Government added that sentence to Article 53 to the amendment when we further specified these other shops that can sell certain medical devices, that there is no need for professional advice, they do not really need a professional consultant in these stores, so this amendment is not supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-25-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Final debate on the Government's amendment to Article 53. Then we can go straight to the third reading. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 53. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government to Article 68. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 68. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 2. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present. It's 70 votes against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 11th meeting of the Assembly. Members and Members, I would like to ask you to remove all materials, laptops and other items from the hall for the preparation of the hall at the 16th meeting of the assembly, which we will begin in one hour. As you were informed, the meeting will be closed to the public. This time, too, in connection with the extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, the activities carried out in accordance with the regulations governing the protection of classified information, namely, the entrance to the Chamber will be supervised by the Security Unit of the National Assembly, the entrance to the Hall will only be possible after passing through the detector doors and the room will not be allowed to enter electronic devices, portable telephones, computers, tape recorders, cameras, materials which do not belong to the meeting and so on. I ask that you follow the instructions that are implemented in accordance with the law in a consistent manner. As we say, we'll start an extraordinary session at 5:30.
