ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter, Victory Jelinčič noble, Ljubo Germič, Bogdan Barovich, Milenko Ziherl, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Tone Anderlič from 16.00 p.m. and Rudolf Petan to 16.00 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. At its 12th extraordinary meeting on 29.9.2009, the Council of State decided that, on the basis of the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to rule again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office before declaring the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Rajko Fajt to explain the Council's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to this morning! In the State Council we followed your debate in the National Assembly and, like you, we focused primarily on the examination of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector and the Other Three Laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Defence and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions. Of course, we were just following this basic discussion or as a result. We have taken into account the fact that the Constitution must be respected, and we have also taken into account what has been laid down for judges as officers. From the debate itself and then from the proposed laws, we have found that the law will have considerable financial consequences. We note that, on the one hand, it has been reported that, due to the non-systemic resolution of the situation or the award of judges, this has become a nuisance when the profession of a judge is no longer attractive. On the other hand, we find that we have great waiting lines for trainees who would like to serve as judges. The low social reputation that has been observed from the debate is, of course, contradictory. On the other hand, it assured the Minister that in one year the number of judges employed would decrease by 116, which is approximately 9%, and thus argued that there would be no financial consequences. On the contrary, we note that €5.8 million or a few million will be the consequences that will follow. We find it hard to believe that the number of employees in this year will fall by this 9% or almost 10%, while on the other hand we are hearing about large judicial backlogs. We therefore estimate that the financial implications will certainly be, since the classification is now instead of the 40th automatic in the 47th class, according to the information we have, we estimate that somehow judges reach the 47th class in the 10th year, but now they will be starting in the 47th year, will have some significant financial implications in the coming years. Therefore, while respecting all the facts, respect for the Constitution and so on, we have assessed that it is appropriate for you to deal with the whole matter once again and assess whether the law in this form and with these financial consequences is also acceptable. As in democracy, so did the decision - making work in the State Council. It would probably make sense to decide on the laws in the package - we considered them somehow in the package, but we voted separately, and in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which was somehow the basis or the basis for all other laws, was the vote 15:15, the other laws, i.e. the proposal of the Law on Judicial Service and Public Defence did not receive support, while - I will say, something unforeseen or something unusual happened, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, and the proposal for a readjustment in your appreciation of the assembly received support, which all seemed illogical, but in democracy everything was possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The matter was dealt with by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Anton Kolaric to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! At its 21st urgent meeting on 8 October, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered as a parent working body the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 9th session on 22 September this year. Members and members of the Committee received the request of the State Council of 29 as material for the meeting. 9 and correction of 30. 9. Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 7. 10. and the opinion of the Government of 8. Ten. 2009 The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Council of State, Councillor Rajko Fajt, who, in order to complement the explanation of the request of the Council of State, said that the Council of State required re-decision only on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and not on other laws relating to the substance of the laws, which he had also quoted earlier in the introduction, which were discussed simultaneously in the framework of the legislative procedure. He said that he could not state any particular justification for such a decision, and the fact is that the vote-to-vote relationship was very close and the outcome of the vote led to the situation that he had vetoed only the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The aim of all these laws was to harmonise the salaries of judges and other judicial officials with the officials of other branches of government, and therefore the legal changes, in addition to establishing a new pay scheme for judges, also apply to state prosecutors, lawyers. The reasons behind the State Council's request give rise to the reasons why the State Council opposes the new regulation of the salaries of judicial officials, and in the introduction, Mr Fite once again explained this. The Committee was also assisted by a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who presented the written opinion of this service, which notes that there is a contradiction in the explanation of the decision-making requirement, since the Council of State is content contrary to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which regulates the classification of wage classes and their range, type and amount of allowances, and the procedure for coordinating the salaries of judicial officials, judges, prosecutors and state lawyers, and formally requests for re-decision only against the Public Prosecutors Act. From a procedural point of view, there is thus a contradiction between the application, this is a request for re-decision on the State Prosecutor's Office Act, and an explanation of the requirement in which the State Council opposes, the content of the second law, this is the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector, as well as other laws that have been in the proceedings - the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on State Defence. A representative of the Government also took part in the Committee's meeting, which agreed with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and considered that the arguments put forward by the State Council could not be followed. Therefore, the Government also proposed to the National Assembly that the law should be re-examined in the re-voting. The members of the Committee did not discuss the request of the Council of State [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u5	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u6	The Committee adopted by majority the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions was appropriate. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill of reasons for the opinion. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. You have before you the re-decision on the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Office Act. As has already been said several times in the context of the consideration of the whole package of so-called salary reform of the judiciary officials, this law is part of a package of four laws that provide substantive and comprehensive reregulation of the salary system of officials in the judiciary. The solutions to this wage reform are contained in the Public Sector Wage System Act. Sectoral laws, if I may say so to them, the State Prosecutor's Office Act, the Judicial Service Act and the State Defence Act transpose this substantive regulation into sectoral legislation for each category of those officers in the judiciary. As has already been seen in the presentation by the representative of the State Council, the main arguments for the re-decision requirements are the law on the public sector's salary system and not the law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is the subject of a re-decision. As has been said several times before, the Government and later Parliament, by adopting a law on the public sector wage system, have resolved the anti-constitutional situation that has already been established twice by the Constitutional Court in this area of wage regulation. The Government considers that the decision taken and the way in which this anti-constitutional situation is resolved is now implemented in a constitutionally consistent manner, and therefore has always advocated that all four laws enter into force at the same time. This is necessary in order to maintain the single system that is in place and which we also want to continue to maintain in the system of salaries for officials in the judiciary. If the National Assembly did not support the law on the State Prosecutor's Office in its re-decision, it would create a new anomaly, given that the law on the State's defence was passed and there are no grounds for non-implementation of this law. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court is currently deciding on the substantive and central law on the system of public sector wages, as well as on the Judicial Service Act, the Government is of the opinion that, in fact, the delay in the implementation of these two laws would lead to the unconstitutional consequences, which is why it is reasonable to expect that the referendum on this issue will not take place. Therefore, by rejecting the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act, they would create a situation in which state prosecutors would receive another system of wages that would not have a basis in existing or existing legislation governing the public sector's wage system. This situation would be unusual, as is the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Act is again decided, as the representative of the Council of State has already said. For this reason, the Government assesses and proposes that the National Assembly, when re-decision is taken, support the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We have just heard again how we are or are also addressing the unconstitutional situation in this area. This is true, but we are correcting the unconstitutional situation in a way that harms Slovenian public finances and also harms Slovenia. In fact, nowhere was it said that wages should be raised by 7 pay grade. However, as far as the current situation is concerned, it is somewhat complicated, because the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme is not in force, this law is a statutory law, the Law on Courts is not in force, the Law on State Defence is in force, but cannot be implemented because there is no Law on the Public Sector Wage System. As far as the state's attorney's office is concerned, we have a veto in front of us. As far as the SDS Group is concerned, of course we will do exactly as we have done so far. This means that we will not support this law, for principle reasons, either. But it's the next thing. In fact, I have to say that in some ways the situation is really strange, because we have been vetoed right into the prosecution's law, and the prosecution as an organization is, because of the head of the prosecution, who is on the way to the coalition that the coalition wants to get rid of is, in any case, the one with whom we have problems not only because of this law, but because of the coalition to the Attorney General's Office. As far as the SDS Group is concerned, we know how to separate work from wrongdoing, we know how to separate a situation where we have no backlogs, which is applicable to the prosecution's organisation, or almost no backlogs, from those in the courts, where we still have a lot of backlog despite progress. The figures presented on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which make the work of the prosecutor's organisation very clear and this must be said to the Slovenian public that significant progress has been made during the conduct of the prosecutor's organisation by the current state prosecutor, Mrs Brezigareva. Substantial progress in all numbers. These figures she has presented herself and according to our assessment today work relatively normal, relatively well, progress is evident. However, this does not prevent the coalition from asking any Members of Parliament, if you wish, to go to the prosecution's disassembly - I am referring to the supervision of the prosecution's organisation in Ljubljana, and we are of course referring to the fact that such controls were also in the past mandate period. Indeed, but in the past mandate period, the supervision of the prosecution organisation in Cyprus was of an administrative nature, it referred to some personnel records and it ended in four hours. However, the supervision of the prosecution organisation in Ljubljana takes place, of course, I do not know how long it has been, even with the permission of the Government. What the results will be, we will see, and the fact is that even those responsible for the prisons exercise this control, at least according to informal information. Probably more, I'll tell you with what task to find there than for some real reason. So this is the disassembly of the prosecution, in any case for political reasons. It would be better if the coalition made it very clear, "Mrs. Barbara Brezigar, we don't like you, we'll replace you." Of course, you have all the right, you have all the possibility and you have all the legal basis, and there is no need for any discrediting, and the transmission of reports that have been studied by one of the parliamentary groups for a month and a half, and we are still not continuing. However, the law before us will not be supported on our part. The reasons for this, as I have pointed out, are of principled nature. We will do as we did in our first vote, and nothing else. And it seems to me that this situation is such that it is possible even good that this law today does not receive support, that we also wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court on the system law or referendum, so that the coalition can have the opportunity and the opportunity to look back at itself, to make an auto-reflexion and decide again on all laws or to prepare new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! I will talk about the additions and amendments to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and not to the Attorney-General, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, as was the case with the presentation of the parliamentary position before me, when we have not actually heard anything about what is the subject of the debate, but about the reviews, the prosecutors and so on, although not least in the last few days we can read how he is making mobile calls on his colleagues, especially those who are not after the year. In short, the Council of State voted at its extraordinary meeting at the end of last month, at the request of a group of councillors, on four laws that relate to the regulation of salaries in the judiciary. After a discussion in which the Council of State discussed the higher salaries of judges, which they considered to be a mistake, the proposed procrastination veto was later proposed on the amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act, as well as on the proposal for a procrastination veto of the Judicial Service Act and the Law on State Defence. However, the Council of State has adopted a veto on the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, although it was expected that the vote would be similar or at least the same in all four laws which are linked. In short, there has been a confused vote by the state councilors and also an absurd situation, because, last but not least, the matter of the State Prosecutor's Act does not actually regulate the salaries of state prosecutors, but it is only in the indirect sense. Last but not least, as concerns the Zares Group, we note that this law also regulates certain matters relating to the implementation and payment of duty on the prosecution, which will then be regulated more rationally. That's why we think it makes sense to uphold the law. We also believe that all four laws simply represent the whole and that despite this absurdity caused to us by the state saints, when only one of the laws has been removed, which does not regulate what they discussed and wanted to achieve with their veto, we are forced to vote on the law today, and in the Group of Members, we will indeed support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the re-decision of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The position of the Desus Group will be clear and brief. The Constitutional Court gave an assessment of the non-constitutionality of the system of salaries of judicial officials, and on the basis of this decision we adopted a package of novelties at the previous regular session, which eliminate the found unconstitutionality, to which the entire package of amendments adopted was addressed by the state councils and only for the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act. Given that this law represents only one of the four laws in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is taken, and that such a decision could be said to be unusual, the decision of the representatives of the Council of State does not have any particular justification that the explanation of the requirement for re-decision in essence relates to the whole package or to the Law on the Public Sector System of Wages, on which there is no veto, and that the DeSUS Members always stand firmly in the position that the necessary unconstitutionality and illegality must be eliminated as soon as possible, we will also contribute our votes to the conclusion that the law on the State Prosecutor's Office is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have already given an opinion on the Law on the Public Sector Wage System in order to raise wages in the pay system of the public sector only to make it worse and not to harmonise, as ordered by the Constitutional Decision. The situation would be further aggravated by the fact that the Government intends to further reduce other salaries in the public sector. The public sector unions argue that the Government has not consulted them at all on the proposed solutions and that they disagree with some. On the other hand, the Council supports the proposal for amendments, which confirms that the Government has consulted judicial officials on the dynamics of changes. We are wondering whether judicial officials are more valuable than others in the public sector, who are also doing fair work and their demands are not heard in public. We find the proposals unusual and apparently some forget that we are in the crisis at this time, that the economy is struggling to survive and that the inflows to the budget are shrinking enormously. In our view, now is not the time to raise wages, since thousands of people across the country are losing jobs and living on the brink of despair and social security. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore believe that solutions will not improve the efficiency of the prosecution. As a result of these changes, there is no guarantee that there will be less corruption and that a case will therefore be investigated and a criminal earlier behind bars. We will therefore re-vote against the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we welcome the veto of the National Council for the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act, as we strongly oppose the rise in the salaries of state prosecutors, it is a shame that the State Council has not voted for the other three laws that raise wages in addition to the state's prosecutors and the state's lawyers. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are wondering where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will obtain funds for all salary increases. Or there has been a long public debate on various austerity measures, the freezing of wage growth, even pensions, and the National Assembly, with a coalition majority, has already adopted three amendments to laws that all raise incomes to both judges and state defenders, so not to the population that lives on the brink of survival. Now we have been deciding again since the fourth proposal. The government would also like to raise salaries for the state's attorneys. In Slovenia, the fact is known that decisions of the Constitutional Court are usually not implemented within the time limit. Even a list is such or other judicial decisions that should have been enforced long ago by amending legislation, but we have not yet. It is precisely in this knowledge and the known fact that it is entirely inappropriate for the Slovenian National Party's Group to increase the wages of a well-being part of the population at present due to compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. According to the applicant, the aim of the proposed amendment is to harmonise the salaries of judges, prosecutors and lawyers with the officials of other branches of government on the basis of decisions of the Constitutional Court. The solutions followed by the proposer in eliminating the unconstitutionality of the legal regime in both decisions of the Constitutional Court are already discriminatory, constitutionally controversial and do not take into account the key differences between the three branches of government, according to the Slovenian National Parties. Therefore, if the individual branches are equivalent to each other in terms of the conditions for the occupation of a particular city and the duration of the mandate, they should also have an equivalent income. However, if this is not the case, the differences between the branches of government should also be taken into account when determining the level of income. This is the only just solution. A situation which is the subject of the current comparison is unacceptable, whereby representatives of the law and the executive branch have to compete for their functions every four years, while judges and prosecutors need to do so only once in their lives. This clearly ignores the reliability and sustainability of the judicial profession, as if it were without any value. Moreover, in the Slovenian National Party's Group, we cannot overlook the fact that the judges, whose salary is equally dependent on their decision, have also decided on the judicial and, consequently, on their constitutionality and unconstitutionality. Is it possible to consider such a decision to be objective and impartial? Given that the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, with the proposed amendment in our opinion, unduly raises the salaries of state prosecutors, we will not back the submitted novel in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u20	Your Honor! When a person reads the request for re-decision of the National Assembly on the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Law, he feels that it is a text written in another law and then universally applies to all those concerned, and the arguments in this report simply do not imply that the National Assembly should decide again, or that any argument should be made to change the position it has adopted by an appropriate majority at the time of the adoption of the law. It is undeniable that if only a decision of the Constitutional Court were subject to regulation or a request of a decision, it should be regulated in this law. However, order, legal order, in this country, is made in such a way that, despite the negative opinions of the Constitutional Court on certain decisions of the National Assembly, these things must be rectified within certain deadlines - we believe that, despite all and despite the comments, despite the difficult times and the like, the pay system is in the way it was set up and later corrected. We all know together how long and how dramatic decisions have been made in the area of wage regulation in the public sector, and finally there have been such decisions that they have simply had to be harmonised and adapted in a way that they have been regulated in a way that has been said many times. Nevertheless, there is an important contribution to the amendment of the law in the area of on-call regulation, when it comes to ensuring greater security, when it comes to ensuring greater transparency, when it comes to regulating this area in a better way than it has been before, and if, for all other reasons, there is no need to re-support the law, at least in this part. It's appropriate to say, time is like this, don't fix something, don't raise wages. Of course it's about relationships, it's about things that are arranged within the area itself and it's not about automatic wage increases, it's about coordination and, of course, about those with the lowest items, it's also about coordination at a higher level. All the reasons we could have read in the report of the Council of State under this law are, of course, convincing us that we are voting again for the law, because this explanation, as it was said, was written in three laws, of course, most of all about the matter of judges, not so much about the field of prosecution. This means, of course, that it was the will to stop the process of adopting and regulating the situation in the National Assembly, but not to really get through the proposals made by the State Council, better solutions, more national and, of course, more acceptable. We will re-vote the bill at the Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. At the time of the presentation of the position of the Social Democrats Group on the amendment of the Law on State Prosecutors exactly a month ago, I stressed that this is a package of inseparable laws governing the salaries of judicial officials and that two decisions of the Constitutional Court are being implemented. This novel was adopted along with the other three laws, and now we are deciding again because the Council of State has changed its mind. At the 35th meeting of the National Council of State, the councillors supported the amendment of the law and also forwarded the decision to the National Assembly. Why they later decided otherwise, we don't know exactly. However, we can understand from the discussion at the national working body of the National Assembly when considering the State Council's re-decision requirement that a representative of the State Council does not know why this has occurred or cannot provide a specific justification for such a decision. At the very request of the Council of State, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it is also a matter for discussion of the contradictions. They are attacking the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System and are vetoing only the amendment of the Law on State Prosecutors, in which neither the pay grade nor the ratio nor the other allowances are regulated, but there are also new arrangements for preparedness and on-calling, which, depending on the specific nature of the work, are essential components or essential components of the exercise of the State Prosecutor's Office. The proposed solution, this is readiness, means the availability of a state prosecutor at the time of duty to act as a state prosecutor, i.e. the proposed solution ensures the conduct of urgent procedural acts and the direction of the police in the pre-trial procedure. Thus, because of the incomprehensible conduct of the State Council or at least the incomprehensible conduct of the State Council, we are faced with a situation where there has already been a conflict. There is already an amendment to the Law on State Advocates, we are waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court to request a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System and the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service, and today we are re-declaring the amendment of the Law on State Prosecutors, which is only a logical consequence of the first two. Then let him who can understand! As I have already pointed out, regardless of whether we like judges, prosecutors, lawyers, we must respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Judges, prosecutors and lawyers must be stimulated to do their job better or to be penalised if they do not do so, but in accordance with the legal provisions, but not because of the vague moves made this time by the Council of State, to cause certain legal consequences that have already arisen because of the non-compliance between laws. I am afraid to think that someone might even think in the direction of trying to undermine one of the fundamental imperatives of our constitutional system, namely, the constitutional order for the division of the three branches of power and their interaction and equality. Especially inappropriate or, if you want, too cheap for me today and here the fifth praise of the current Attorney General or perhaps even mention her mistakes. Believe it or not, there will be opportunities. Today we are re-declaring the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. And in the Group of Social Democrats we will also support the amendment of the law this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW. The State Council is the 12th extraordinary session, 29. 9. 2009 decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act. I give the floor to the representative of the State Council, Tsvetko Zupančič, to explain the Council's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! At the request of the Council of State, the National Assembly will again decide on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperative Act adopted by the National Assembly at its 9th session 25.9.2009. The Council of State has adopted a decision to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act on the basis of an assessment that the consequences of the deletion of the entire section on joint audit would have a negative impact on the organisation and operation of cooperatives in the long term. It is much more than just that the Joint Undertaking should not carry out audits in the associated cooperatives, although the possibility of carrying out a cooperative audit would benefit from specialisation and 15-year experience in the audit of cooperatives by the Joint Association, which has obtained permission to revise cooperatives. It is also not only the Association of Slovenia, as the Joint Audit is also carried out by the Joint Liaison Office, which meets the conditions laid down and obtains the authorisation of the competent authority to carry out the audit under these conditions. That finding is also based on the non-admission of amendments to the bill. The deletion of the entire 8th Chapter of the Cooperatives Act means that all provisions setting out the content and scope of the audit in relation to the specific accelerant purpose of the cooperative shall cease to apply. Further provisions which uniformly and unequivocally regulate the time limit for each cooperative. Further provisions which provide for the duty of the auditor to inform the president of the cooperative and the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee without delay in the event of the insolvency of the cooperative or other circumstances which substantially restrict the development potential of the cooperative. Further provisions governing the participation of the authorised auditor in the general meeting of the cooperative, i.e. provisions adapted to the specific purpose and characteristics of the cooperative. In deleting the entire chapter, cooperatives will be subject to the provision referred to in Article 41a, paragraph 2, of the Cooperatives Act, which provides for the duty to revise the cooperative to apply the provisions of the law governing the company in a substitute and meaningful manner. After deleting the provisions on joint audit by law, it will no longer be specified under which conditions the cooperative must ensure annual revision of the annual report, as otherwise regulated by the Cooperatives Act for other business entities. The Company Act defines the duty to revise differently, depending on the type and size of the company, and does not mention cooperatives in the auditing provisions at all, which in our opinion will open the way to different interpretations and also to disputes. In addressing the issues of joint audit, the legislative procedure for the third amendment of the cooperative law has always focused exclusively on formal and legal aspects, inter alia, whether the regulation of a joint audit is contrary to the Directive on statutory audits or whether the cooperative law on certain solutions may depart from the audit law, for example in the provision on the legal form of the audit firm where the European Directive explicitly does not provide for restrictions. Where a joint audit has been regulated so far by specific provisions applicable to the general rules on auditing as a specific provision for the narrower areas of cooperatives to carry out activities in cooperatives and cooperatives, the explicit provisions of the cooperative law apply to companies - there are no formal obstacles to ensuring that the provisions on joint audit cannot be harmonised with the Directive and also be in force in the future. Given the specific characteristics of cooperatives, including the protection of weekly cooperative property, we believe that joint audits as a form of external professional and impartial control cannot be replaced equally with other supervisory mechanisms. The deletion of the entire chapter on peer review will therefore have an adverse impact on the development of society despite undisputedly acceptable solutions, which, in other respects for European cooperatives and domestic cooperatives, bring novelties, in our opinion, ambiguity in the regulation of the joint audit weighs the positive effects of other solutions in the long term. Therefore, we propose that the National Assembly [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] does not vote in favour of the adoption of the law and instructs the Government to make a substantive assessment of the arrangements for the audit of cooperatives and to propose the necessary legislative changes as soon as possible. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Franco Bogovic to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u26	Good afternoon, distinguished president! Dear Secretary of State, Mr Councillor, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at the first meeting of the 10th session. Ten. 2009 addressed the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 9th session, on 25 September of this year. The request of the State Council of 30 was forwarded to the Committee. 9. and opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 5. Ten. The members of the committee also received an opinion from the Government. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and the Association participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given a written request from the Council of State, which presented a similar position as presented by Mr State Adviser now, and I will not repeat myself in this part. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Government, which considers that the reasons for the request are not justified. In particular, the Government emphasises that the revision law in its Article 5 allows the provision of audit services only to audit companies, which, under Article 3(3) of the same law, only economic companies and independent entrepreneurs may be individuals who are authorised to audit and no longer the Joint Undertaking which has performed audit services in cooperatives following the earlier applicable Audit Act - 1. In addition, the explicit provision of Article 174 of the Audit Act - 2 is clearly laid down that the Cooperative Association can provide audit services to cooperatives only until July 2009. In the light of the indications set out in the fourth point of the request of the State Council that the deletion of the entire chapter on joint audit, which is mandatory for all cooperatives under the current law, will not have a positive impact on the development of cooperatives, in particular on cooperatives which have a large share of indivisible cooperative capital in their balance sheet, the Government points out that already in the applicable cooperative law there are types of safeguard mechanisms protecting indivisible cooperative property. The Legislative and Legal Service also provided a written opinion setting out the reasons for the request for re-decision of the Law, which had already entered into force last year, explicitly states that the Joint Undertaking may provide the audit service for a maximum period of 12 months and shall not provide those services after the expiry of the period. The principles of the rule of law require that the legal standards be clear and unequivocal, in view of the unequivocal requirement laid down in Article 174(2) of the Audit Law, if it wishes to reintroduce this possibility for the Joint Undertaking to carry out the audit, this should be regulated by amending or supplementing the law governing the revision, or by nomotechnically by an appropriate method, which is different from that amendment which we have tabled in the first law in the parliamentary group. Here I must say that this nomotechnically appropriate way has been mentioned for the first time at this consideration of the veto, not in the basic law, so it may be a pity that we have missed any opportunity that we have not done so for the first time, and then we could make arrangements in law. State Councillor Peter Vrishk stressed, as was already the case for the reasons, that the State Secretary has also been involved, which, I think, will also have an opportunity today to talk about this. In the debate on the request of the Council of State, the majority of the members of the Committee considered that the Joint Alliance was appropriate for the continuation of the joint audit, but the obstacle, as the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service consider it, was in the 174th Article of the Law on Auditing last year. A comment was also made that if the Council of State, instead of trying to solve the problem of joint audit by requiring a re-decision on the law, would be correct, it would be resolved by an argumented debate on the possibility of amending the law on auditing. Finally, as I have already said, the Council of State approved, by 6 votes in favour and 1 against the proposed decision, that the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Cooperatives Act is appropriate and the representative of the Joint Association has announced that there is also a possibility that the Joint Liaison could also be examined in a judicial dispute to determine the infringement of the free movement of services in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the law to explain the opinion. The word has magic. Sonja Bukovec, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u28	Good-bye! Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Madam Members! You have before you the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act is being re-examined. As you already know, the European Commission has already adopted Regulation 1435 in 2003 with the aim of harmonising mutual law in all European Union countries, as well as allowing legal and natural persons from different countries to establish a European cooperative. The Regulation allows Member States to adopt legal bases for the implementation of European cooperatives while at the same time simplifying the legal system in this area throughout the European Union. The proposal for a law is to implement Regulation 1435 as regards the establishment of a European cooperative, chapter 9, including proposals to supplement the individual articles of the previous cooperative law, in most cases relate to the implementation of the provisions on European cooperatives, the adaptation of the European Regulation to national rules and the applicable rules for shareholders under the Company Act apply mutatis mutandis. In addition, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act also provides for the establishment, merger, reshaping of cooperatives, the provisions of the Cooperatives Act, as I said - the merger of basic capital, the minimum capital to be held by the cooperative, the operation of the cooperative bodies themselves, and ultimately the law defines indivisible cooperative property or the protection of this indivisible cooperative property arising from privatisation prior to 1992. Thus, it is problematic, as has already been said, that this law has completely missed a joint audit or a joint audit as an entity to revise cooperatives. In fact, the Audit Act 1, which was in force before last year, provided that the Joint Liaison could carry out a joint audit, while the Audit Act 2, which was adopted last year, deleted the Joint Audit from the entities which could carry out the audit of cooperatives but left the transitional period until July of this year, with the possibility that the cooperative could still carry out the audit of cooperatives after that period. In view of the legislation in force, it is perfectly clear that the Joint Undertaking should no longer carry out a joint audit. The amendment of the Cooperatives Act in several articles travels to the application of the provisions of the Company Act, and in some ways also considers cooperatives as an undertaking or a share company. And it is also in these provisions that the revision of cooperatives can be used mutatis mutandis. The meaningful application of these provisions of the Company Act, according to the Government, is sufficient to define the audit of all legal entities; hence, also cooperatives. Legal rules on the speciality of the Cooperatives Act in relation to the Revision Act 2 in our view in this case the Government cannot apply. In fact, the Audit Act 2 is very precise in determining the entities to be subject to audit because it clearly indicates which entities are authorised to audit legal entities, and only then can they be authorised by the Audit Institute to carry out the audit itself. Given the obvious fact that the deletion of the audit will not have a beneficial impact on the development of society, we can point out that already in the current Cooperatives Act there are types of safeguard mechanisms protecting indivisible cooperative property, such as Articles 74 and 75, and that we are adding this amendment to the Act for national and European cooperatives, namely, the Ministry of Agriculture will always be able to oppose the cooperation of cooperatives in the establishment of a new European cooperative resulting from the merger. Thus, attempts to abuse the provisions on indivisible cooperative property can always be left to chance. Let me just add that the Ministry of Finance has opposed this also because two laws on the same issue are inconsistent, which does not give legal certainty to audited entities and is legally inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. The State Council was expected to vote veto in favour of amendments to the cooperative law. In the Group of Members, we really believe that transparent financial operations must be ensured at all levels and in all institutions. The higher standard is certainly also an independent and professional audit. We are therefore firmly convinced that it is right and reasonable for cooperatives to carry out their audits and to order them for certain and established institutions laid down by the auditing law. We do not see any reason for cooperatives to be exceptions and to organise audit tasks within their own services of the Association of Slovenia. Therefore, the proposed veto on the cooperative law, according to the Group of Members, is really pointless. In the Group of Members, we will indeed re-vote the cooperative law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Jurša on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Also a nice greeting from the secretary of state with a co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group also supports this time the amendment of the law on amendments and amendments to the law on clamps. We're not changing our views on the novel, so I'm not going to repeat them. It is true, however, that a bill should also be put in place which repeals the joint audit as a specific statutory form of audit in the light of the views of the Ministry of Finance and in view of the fact that the law governing the audit allows for the provision of services by the Joint Liaison Office only until July 2009. However, the new auditing law only includes companies authorised to provide audit services. This is the position of the Group of Members. But I think it could be different.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u34	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have already said in the context of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act that it is imperative to adopt the law, since it is a matter of alignment with the Council Regulation in which a European cooperative is legally regulated. Otherwise, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for a law could be more adapted to the development of society in our country and that certain areas could be more specifically regulated. In adopting the law, the deletion of the provisions on peer review was most problematic. Our amendment was also rejected on the committee, which predicted that the joint audit would not be terminated. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the adoption of such an amendment would result in non-compliance with the Audit Act. As I have already said in the presentation of the Committee's report, it is only in the second procedure, according to the veto, that it is also said that - unlike our amendment, which, according to the Law-Legal Service, is not the right solution - this could be regulated by nomotechnic solutions. I am therefore sorry that we have not received such an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service before or at least any guidance for an appropriate solution, and I expect such options to be said in the future. However, because we were so informed at the time and received such a message, we supported this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. However, we are preparing an amendment to the Audit Act and a subsequent amendment to the Cooperatives Act, which would again allow for a joint audit, because we believe that this is a legally correct way. We believe that, with the volatility of membership and core capital, the revision is the means that reduces the risks inherent in cooperatives' operations. In neighbouring countries where our corporate law is being followed, joint audits are considered as the fourth body of the cooperative, and it is appropriate that the mandatory audit in Slovenia is again prescribed for all cooperatives, but we also believe that it is possible with a slightly smaller frequency than it was in the past for those smallest ones who are now without revision. It should be known, however, that today about 90% of such cooperatives, which fall under the classifications for small companies, are not required or required for these audits. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will continue to support the Cooperation Act despite those comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. In this law, if we adopt it, we can talk about the issue of the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This proposal will not receive the support of the Slovenian National Party. Last time we told you why. One thing we are reminded by the Legislative and Legal Service is that it is about preparing this law to conflict with other laws, and this has been over-examined. It's the second thing the State Council reminds us of. I would point out the main problem that cooperatives can be set up by foreigners and, if it is not yet clear to us, I would like to say that this is a sale of agricultural land that passes in a sophisticated way into the hands of foreigners. Even if they do not engage in this activity, they have the opportunity and the legal right to set up cooperatives. What does this mean for Slovenia, given that Italy is already lending favourable loans for land purchases today, but only to the capital limit, T+0, to Italian residents, of course, it does not have to be stressed in particular. The examples from Croatia are known when Croatia painted our agricultural lands in its cadastral and recategorised them at the border to the wall. Slovenia did not even respond to this. So today we give foreigners the opportunity to set up cooperatives here. Isn't that the issue of national interests?Oh, my God! If you do this, then we will be able to sell for almost zero sums, because agricultural land is very cheap, very cheap to Italians with more purchasing power than the Slovenians have, these lands, and somehow allow them to realize this desire, which they have had since the end of World War II, to re-establish an intensive settlement to Postojna. That's what's going on. The seamen can say it, we can feel it on our skin, intensely, possessively, I'll say, the plundering of Slovenian land. And the fact is, this is how we help them now. And the other is, what does this mean for agriculture in general? Even today, Europe is not a food regulator on the market. If in France there is a hyperproduction of the wine of the god we are witnessing, this year, that Europe is subsidizing so-called green harvesting and we are duly ripping the yet ripe grapes, paying some money and tomorrow, we will allow those who have surpluses, market surpluses to sell it on our trade shelves. What does that mean, I'm going to tie myself up again to a karst prosciutto when we actually shut down the pigs in Primorska and today we import meat from Spain and Hungary and we produce a karst prosciutto that is not. We know that karst prosciutto is no longer karst prosciutto, because in fact the ingredients for this, genuine ingredients have only farmers who produce something for themselves here or there. And that's also the best thing to say at home, because it's home. The government doesn't know that. We are actually selling the Slovenian land in a sophisticated way, and we have repeatedly warned about this. The Fund for Agricultural Lands has also been doing this for a long time. It also allows the establishment of a cooperative so that the formal founder can be a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia with us, but they are other members from other countries and then they buy the land into their own account or through d.o.o. we allow. That's what we've been talking about. Mountain Hills are a case like this. We enable the purchase of agricultural land, which, under the pretext of capitalisation, translate into the ownership structure of foreigners. Instead of putting you in as a small nation [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Backup guards, we pass these stupid laws. [[...]] One of these will be today, and it will allow foreigners to make their way to land.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary, and to your associate. And I will stick to the darkness represented by this law. We're talking about a law on changes and additions. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we supported it for the first time, and we did not know any reason to change our decision. The main reason is not European agricultural policy, but the issue of joint audit or the fact that the Association of Slovenia has lost its status as an audit company and this debate has certainly exceeded the professional framework to which, in the view of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this issue is the subject. Formal reasons are one, after which they could say that the abolition of the joint audit or the fact that the Association of Slovenia has lost its status as an audit company is the result of its abolition in the new auditing law. However, the transitional period within which the Slovenian Association was authorised to provide the audit service expired in July of this year. Since, according to the relevant legal opinions, it is not possible to assert the specificities of the Cooperatives Act, in accordance with the Audit Act, the proposed amendment to the Cooperatives Act has no other choice but to delete the chapter of the Cooperatives Act which regulated this joint audit. Another possible solution would have been, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, that the possibility of the Cooperative Association of Slovenia to continue to carry out a joint audit would have been regulated by an appropriate amendment of the auditing law or by a nomotechnically appropriate way in the Cooperatives Act itself. Such a solution, however, would also be unacceptable in the opinion of our party after taking note of all the arguments. However, we point out two reasons which, in our opinion, led the drafter of the audit law to abolish the joint audit and are also crucial to our support for a solution which is opposed by the Association of Slovenia and the State Council. First time. To date, the arrangements for joint audit under the applicable Cooperatives Act derogate from the relevant Directives of the European Union. In the Liberal Democracy, we thus accept the Government's broad argument that the current cooperative audit regime does not meet the requirements of the Compulsory Audit Directive for annual and consolidated financial statements. Another time. From the current concept, the Joint Liaison - Audit - cooperative and the concept of the current practice gives rise to serious and reasonable reflection on the required independence of the joint auditors. We know from practice that it is certainly a wide range of connected systems and that we are on thin ice, and we want to review it, above all, that it is completely independent and professional. Those who know the functioning of this system know that we simply cannot talk about complete independence. The greatest interest in the audit being carried out independently, impartially and in accordance with the audit rules should certainly be the cooperatives themselves, no one else in Slovenia who is around 500. Of the 500 cooperatives, 135 are agricultural, as such members of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, of which only 73 are included in the Association of Slovenia. We are talking about a revision solution for 500 different cooperatives, some agricultural, construction, craftsmanship and some other. Therefore, the fulfilment of the basic condition of auditing is an independent and impartial audit, the basis for the further successful development of society in Slovenia. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will once again support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperative Act, which, among other things, deletes the chapter of the law governing the joint review. The authorised auditors, who have so far worked within the framework of the Association of Slovenia, will be able to organise themselves in an organisational form, either by the provisions of the Audit Act for audit societies or by continuing their work as required internal auditors, at least part of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to all present, representatives of the State Council and Government of the Republic of Slovenia! In the Social Democrats' Group, we have decided to reconfirm or support the amendments to the Association Act because we believe that the veto voted by the State Council is a missed move. First, if we look a little bit into the past, last year the Audit Act 2 was passed, which, in fact, ruled out the possibility of auditing cooperatives, working cooperatives through the Cooperatives, and provided that cooperatives would also have to be audited through companies or independent entrepreneurs of individuals who are certainly independent and also professionally qualified, which we do not doubt about the auditors in the Social Union, but the link between the cooperatives and cooperatives that are supposed to be audited is far too close to being able to question their independence. We also believe that the reasons given by the Council of State in the veto vote are not based on sound grounds, as they rely on the otherwise well-known application of the rule of law that a law which is a special law may otherwise regulate individual matters as governed by the general law, which the Revision Act considers to be 2. The fact is that the whole range of reasons that reject this issue, and in the Group of Members, we are convinced that the interest that the State Council has actually led in veto voting is too narrowly limited only to agricultural cooperatives, because the fact that cooperatives of other species in Slovenia are so large that the restrictions on cooperatives are only wrong in the agricultural field and many other economic operators, individuals who have joined cooperatives that are not only economic types, but also social ones that are based on social activities, need to be asked, so that there is no reason for them to decide differently in our Group of Members, but to re-support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Robert Hrvat has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Today we are re-declaring the amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act. The explanation of the re-decision motioner on the Committee went in the direction that the proposed solutions seemed good to them and that they agreed with the vast majority of the changes. However, as a reason for the veto at the meeting of the State Council, disagreement was expressed over the elimination of the entire chapter on peer review. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we attach to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, given that this area is governed by the Audit Law, there would be an unacceptable legal situation and a breach of two laws. Otherwise, we agree with the Council of State that joint audits have been working well for 17 years and have contributed to the more successful work of cooperatives, but we believe that the right procedure for any changes in this area would be a recast of the Audit Act in a way that the law preserves mutual auditing. Here are the government and, of course, the Joint Liaison Office to find a common language. We will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party because of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as we voted in the last vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 16th A-point of the agenda, this is on the Defence Proposal for a Law on the Development Support of the Pomeranian Region in the Period 2010 to 2015, within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At this point, I don't see any government representatives yet. I'm not informed they're here. That's why I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in 10 minutes. Sorry, no. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in 10 minutes. We'll pick her up at 10:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Please take your seats, colleagues and fellow Members! We shall proceed with the adjournment of the sitting and the adjournment of the agenda. We are discussing and considering the proposal for a law on development support to the Pomurski region in 2010-2015 under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Andrej Horvat, State Secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government, has the floor. Please. Please, Dr. Horvath, you have the floor. Please, if you'll just go to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u45	Dear congregation, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! By the Government we present to you the Law on the Development Support of the Pomur Region from 2010 to 2015. The point is that in preparing the law, we derived from an assessment of the situation in Pomour, which we have examined thoroughly in the Government and also experienced directly in the Pomura companies. It is that the current problems are great and our message is nevertheless and precisely because of this positive and forward-looking. It's a development law and it's an intervention. The law provides public funds for measures to open new perspectives in Pomour. The Pomur economy will finally be given an opportunity to take advantage of the comparative advantages of geothermal energy of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and agro-food and tourism. Support for the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region will increase Pomur's absorption capacity in candidates for public calls and programmes. This is also aimed at the functioning of the government project of the office in Pomour, which I will run as State Secretary for Regional Development, employed within the Cabinet. Let me mention that it is the Secretary of State with a function that does not exclusively cover Pomurje, but it is intended to help or contribute to such systemic changes as well as substantive changes to the overall area of regional policy in Slovenia. By investing, public co-financing of companies' investments will encourage the development of businesses and entrepreneurship in Pomure. We businessly want to dynamic the region, but above all to ensure faster opening of new jobs. We also want to cause this law, and we are aware of this, positive, external effects for the whole country. In this case, we want to show that much can be done and that we can imitate it. By investing in staff, the labour force in Pomour is seeking to properly reclassify and train for new challenges and increase the possibility of new employment for educated staff. This is about the fact that the brain drain from Pomurje, through its establishment, could not be prevented by the start of entrepreneurship, but at least the limited or educated staff would be kept where they are at home, where they have their jobs and where they can contribute most to development. By promoting social entrepreneurship, conditions will be established to accelerate the development of employment through this particular form of entrepreneurship, which is still underdeveloped in Slovenia. Part of the structural unemployment problems will be tackled successfully with social entrepreneurship activities. The programme also aims to improve the image of the region and to promote it, with the aim of attracting foreign and domestic investors. This has also led to tax relief, which has not been easy to reconcile within the Government, and we are proud of that. It is a thing that can be tolerated, that is, as an experience throughout Slovenia. The law introduces specific measures which other regions do not receive. It is written to the extent of the situation in Pomure and with the aim of supporting the gloomy economy. This is a coordinated action by all government policies, not just regional ones. The government has decided to move the development of Pomurje from a dead spot, so that Pomurje will not only be a land of friendly people and good food, but also a competitive, open and fast-growing regional economy. Let me say that the programme for the development of Pomurje is also a programme for the development of Slovenia. I ask you to support the Government in our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to President William Trofenik to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development shall be held at its 7th emergency meeting. 10. Considered the proposal for a law on development support in the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the representative of the Government, as a bill-maker, stressed that the Government had taken the initiative to prepare a proposal for a law that sought to legislate measures to be implemented for 6 years from 2010 to 2015. The proposed measures, the programme approach and the necessary financial resources should encourage investment of domestic and foreign capital in the area and thus create the conditions for restructuring the area. The measures so far, which were above all horizontal in nature, unfortunately have not been effective. The government project office in Pomurje will therefore now take care of their effective implementation. In its opinion, as well as at its own meeting, the Legislative and Legal Service specifically pointed out that the promotion of regional development is governed by a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which does not regulate situations where development support could be granted to each region. Therefore, the proposed law, which provides for specific development support to be granted to a particular region, constitutes a derogation from the regulation in this law. From a constitutional and systemic point of view, it further pointed out that the law submitted by setting specific measures and allocating additional resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia gives that region and its economic and other economic operators an economic advantage or advantage. Therefore, the proposal for a law could be constitutionally controversial because it introduces a non-systemic approach to the regulation of regional development policy and because its justification does not include a comprehensive presentation of the situation of all regions. The members of the Committee, as well as the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and also pointed out that the proposal of the Law partially solves the development problems of only one development region, so that it does not stem from a law which systematically governs the area of promoting regional development and that there are no specific criteria or conditions that would constitute an exception to the applicable regulation in this law. In the discussion on the articles of the bill, members were critical to some of the solutions to the law submitted, as they considered it unnecessary to intervene without an adequate system of grounds. In their view, the law will not bring the necessary expectations and effects. However, the debaters were of the same opinion that the problems faced by the Pomur region arose over a longer period of time and not only as a result of the economic and financial crisis, but mainly as a result of the absence of an appropriate regional policy in the past. They considered that the development projects for the Pomurje area had been prepared years ago, but had never been implemented because the funds for the development of the area had been used for other purposes. Therefore, members of the single opinion were of the view that there was a need to ensure strict control over the use of resources in this area over the next six years. Some members of the Committee considered that the situation in this area requires action in a way that would ensure immediate results, but in particular should not be satisfied with just 1,000 new jobs, as without a development-oriented economy it would not be possible to rehabilitate the area. They have estimated that they have virtually no choice or support for the law or not, because the situation in this area is in fact so critical that it is impossible for people to give up financial support for the start-up of the economy. Notwithstanding the above, the Committee supported the proposal for a law because it considered that the Pomur region, in terms of its development indicators, was in need of State aid in terms of solidarity in the current financial and economic crisis. In this regard, the government has ensured that in the next 6 months it will draw up a new system law to promote coherent regional development, including systemic mechanisms for possible concrete action in situations such as Pmurje. The Committee followed to a large extent the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services in the drafting and adoption of the amendments, and adopted an amendment aligning the law-specific area of Pomurje with the area of the Area Development Programme for Prleka. I propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by Franz Jurša, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, all present in the National Assembly! In the DeSUS Group we support the proposal for a law on development support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015. The fact is that it is one of the least economically developed areas in our Republic, which has been further affected by Mura's bankruptcy, as well as by the problems in the food and processing industry and agriculture, which gives many people in this region also bread. Therefore, something needs to be done in this area. At the same time, in addition to the textile industry, the crisis is also in the food industry, as I mentioned, and in agriculture also represents an extremely important sector for the economy of the area. Otherwise, the bill before us sets out four sets of measures. In six years, measures of EUR 261 million will be envisaged. EUR 30 million is earmarked for the implementation of the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur region in the period 2010-2015. An amount of EUR 11.5 million per year is allocated to promote employment during the period of validity of the law. Among the sets are tax incentives for investments and priority treatment of programmes and projects from Pomurje in running for state and European funds. The indicative value of actions under the priority treatment of projects and programmes is EUR 162 million. Of these, there is a maximum of €90 million devoted to investing in infrastructure for the supply of healthy drinking water to residents. Investments in promoting and enhancing the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry and the food and processing industry are estimated at EUR 40 million. However, EUR 30 million is foreseen to encourage the regional economic centre in Pomour. The programme to promote the competitiveness of Pomurje aims at mitigating the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in the labour market and creating 1,000 new jobs in six years. At the same time, it is intended to create conditions for the development of other Slovenian regions. In the case of employment of so-called disadvantaged workers in Pomurje for at least 20 months, the employer may impose a reduction of the tax base by 70% of the costs of the worker, but mostly in the amount of the tax base or up to the maximum permitted amount under the State aid rules. However, if workers are employed for at least two years, they shall be reimbursed for the paid contributions of employers for social security for a period of two years. Companies and independent entrepreneurs established and operating in Pomour may apply a 70% reduction in the tax base for investment in 2010-2015 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] amounts for new investments in equipment and intangible long-term assets. [[...]] This provision applies only to investments in the Pomur region and to the maximum amount of the tax base or to the maximum permitted amount under State aid rules. The legislative proposal to set up a government project office in the Pomurska region no longer defines a measure as a means of implementing the law. In dealing with the work of the mother body, we have completed the bill in some very important points. For example, in the provisions of the law, we have supplemented, in Article 2, the areas to which the law relates. We have aligned the statistical region of Pomurje with the regional development programme of the Partnership for Prlekia. The next, according to our assessment, is an extremely important addition to Article 11 which regulates investment in infrastructure for the supply of drinking water to the Pomeranian region. The amendment entered into the provision and thus entered into the law a clearer commitment by the responsible institutions to carry out the project during the duration of the law. This provision is, according to our assessment, one of the most important, as it gives Pomurje clear assurances for the implementation of the healthy drinking water supply project. In the DeSUS Group, as has already been said, we will support the bill and at the same time monitor the implementation of the law in order not to become [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Dead spot on paper. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, after everything that has been going on in Pomour recently, we support any direct assistance to the Pomuri region, because it has been for too long, in fact, abandoned all the time by all authorities. That way, I can tell you that we will definitely support the law. Although some news is promising for Pomurje, there is no way that this is exclusively a crisis law because it contains a set of projects that have already been planned for this region, such as the construction of drinking water infrastructure. Of course, we hope that the same legal basis will speed it up. However, some things in the law are not fixed or are not well resolved, especially in order to ensure that the aid reaches the greatest extent possible for those who are actually meant for it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the fundamental problem of Pomurje right now is unemployment, so we would expect the most active incentive for employment. Since more than 50% of the unemployed in the region have only the first and second levels of education, the contribution to additional education will be inevitable. We also hope for the effects of tax reliefs. I believe that these are key, especially those which talk about investment facilitation and this proposal is certainly good. It is true, however, that the proposal for a development aid law to Pomurje is financially inflated and is valued at around €260 million. This sounds good, but the number is due to the fact that the applicant has included in the total mass a number of ongoing projects already under way or envisaged before or would have been implemented even if this law had not been implemented. In addition to these sectors, which seem to be key, geothermal energy, agriculture and tourism, we have tried to add sectors to the Slovenian People's Party within the traditional industry of this region, namely the process industry, the metal processing industry and the electricity industry. We are confident that with the three mentioned, geothermal energy, agriculture and tourism, Pomurje will certainly not achieve the development breakthrough we all want together. And I'll tell you more about it below. We oppose the project office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Pomurska region, as all its tasks can be assumed by the Regional Development Agency for the Pmurska Development Region. Thus, there would be no additional costs for the operation of the office, and we would also express our trust in the existing pomur institutions, which I think is important. If this trust is not in this institution, there is certainly a need for change. So human resources and also systemic. In the Slovenian People's Party we also proposed extending the envisaged tax relief for investment, which I have already mentioned, from 5 to 10 years, until 2020, which I think is very important. We also find it important to apply for control mechanisms in the law, as the implementation of the law must also be reported regularly in the National Assembly. Still, at this treatment, I have some sort of lump in my throat. What's with the snot? I still think we lost Moore the easy way. I don't think we've done everything we can to keep as many jobs as possible in Mura. It wasn't about any jobs. It was jobs where workers and low-school workers, i.e. primary school, and also those that unfortunately do not have primary schools, were able to work. Such jobs are particularly limited today. And if I recall correctly, it took a lot less money to keep 1,500 to 2,000 jobs than is now envisaged for the creation of 1,000 new jobs. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We spoke from five to 30 million, in the first case. [[...]] In another, we're talking 260 million. What can we say to that? I'm sure it's obvious that the jobs in the Mura didn't have a perspective. No one guarantees that the jobs that we will create with these 260 million will have a better perspective. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we fully support the Proposal for a Law on Development Support to the Pomurski Region in the period 2010-2015. We are pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through this proposal of the law, has decided on such an important measure, assistance in the development of the Pomurska region. I will not repeat the arguments put forward so many times and the reasons for such a government measure, and I hope that there will be a positive decision by the Slovenian National Assembly. We also held a thorough debate on the individual articles, the amended articles and the content of the law in full and in full agreement on the proposal for a law on local self-government and regional development as a working body. It is also true that we in the Slovenian National Party also had certain comments and concerns about certain articles of the law and the proposed amendments to the SDS and SLS. In particular, I am referring to the proposed amendment to Article 12, which deals with the restriction on the use of funds provided for in the law. This is a provision on the allocation and use of resources for the production of various studies, expertise, expert proposals, foundations, documentation and advisory contracts. In the past, we have had poor experience with such services, which have many times produced no good results and have only exhausted the available mass for the projects of the money provided. Most members of the MDT have decided, as it has decided, and this has in some way justified its decision by the amendment of Article 13 of the Act, which refers to the obligation to report on the activities carried out and the funds used to the National Assembly, which in our view also represents a certain safeguard against unintentional, non-usual use of funds and ensures more effective implementation of projects. Personally, I think that the protective mechanisms are never too many, for our experience shows that Slovenians are too often inclined to deal with the resources they have given, either knowingly or unselfishly. We also support the adoption of certain other amendments by coalition parties, such as Article 9 on financing the establishment of a regional, economic centre in the Pomurska region and the amendment to Article 8, this is a provision on financing the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre in the Pomurska region, co-financed by national cohesion funds of the state budget and in accordance with the cohesion policy of the European Union. It is good that the Ministry of Education and Sport, as the intermediate body in cohesion policy, will assume responsibility for the implementation of the law on this segment. Although we had certain comments and reservations about the preparation and coordination process in the drafting of the law itself, in the Slovenian National Party. In our opinion, the representatives of the Pomur Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Local Communities, Chamber of Agriculture, etc. could be more involved, not to mention. The meeting with the aforementioned representatives and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister of Economy was convened and held two days ago. The various initiatives of the members of the Management Board, members of the Pomur Chamber of Commerce, were given. Unfortunately, however, a number of initiatives have not been sufficiently consistently included in the bill itself. I am thinking, above all, of initiatives in terms of defining, for example, the current proposal for a law with measures and instruments to promote economic, social development and not taking into account incentives for spatial development. Our region is handicapped because it has a lot of agricultural land and when a development project wants to apply into space, it wants to protect the agricultural land at all costs. We may not have any incentive if there is no land to build. In particular, both corridors, motorways and railways are blocked for a large logistics centre. It is proposed that the spatial placement process also take into account the priorities within the competences of the Government and the specific geographical spatial characteristics of the Pomur Region. The law shall include a guardian to rule in the Pomurje area in spatial planning, acting as an arbitrator. The proposal to set up an expert group or commission to set up educational programmes, from vocational school to college, makes sense and justified as to the needs of the region. This Commission is also expected to approve the establishment of any new schools in the region, thus avoiding unnecessary programmes, such as absurd enrollment in social programmes, where graduates and graduates are then admitted to the employment institution. The Murje needs mainly education programmes for deficient professions. Furthermore, I could list well-founded initiatives and proposals, but since I am limited in time, then we will probably also see this in further discussions on the amendments. We support and look forward to the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Györek. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, all of you, once again a good day! There's no more time for words in Pomour. The law before us and we will support it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, since we also participated in its creation, means the first act that will certainly improve the situation in this area of Slovenia. Therefore, once again, let me say that our support for all these measures is provided. On the basis of catastrophic economic and social indicators, as well as general and recent developments, the Government has rightly decided that action should be taken. That is why she has drafted a law before us, which deviates from the policy of coherent regional development, but is a result of the painful fact that policies so far specific to Pomurje and the general one to promote coherent regional development have not been successful and unfortunately have not produced the desired results. This is certainly a moment of sobriety for all of us and probably a reason for discussion when we will all have to ask each other together and clarify why we have come to this point today and how we will continue in the area of coherent regional development and what will be the new conceptual paradigm in this area. If I sum up the successful regional development, compared to the long run, then Pomurci are on average three steps behind the rest of Slovenia every ten steps. Politics has so far looked back, and Prekmurce has been adamantly encouraged, but nothing concrete has been done. Today we have gathered the courage to change that. Even in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have already assessed that action is necessary under the circumstances. When the crisis revealed the coat and exposed all the structural problems of Pomurje, we also decided to make a few proposals ourselves that contribute to solving this problem, decisively, courageously and prudently. Our five actions are well-known and we are pleased that at least most of these solutions and steps forward this law also summarizes. On the basis of coordination, today we have a law that contains the majority of these solutions. Most of the measures taken by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia were thus taken into account and integrated into the final version of the law, which contains a number of important measures and solutions. On the other hand, the question arises why we need a specific law, why we do not solve the problem under a coherent regional development policy. It's very simple. The situation in Pomour is special and, unfortunately, it will be necessary to recognise that we have not been successful in regional development so far, and we could argue otherwise. And what is the specialty of marriage? The fact that it foresees concrete measures that will stimulate what this area needs most: economic growth. Finally, the political will to bite into the sour apple has been found, to tell ordinary opponents that the problem of Pomur is not a fruit bowl and that solutions have positive effects for the entire pomur region. Some measures have an immediate effect, such as incentives for investment, incentives for investment. However, some of these measures are of a long-term nature, such as a competitiveness programme, which is a priority for projects, and this law is particularly successful. The law is certainly not without problems, it is not perfect, as no thing in this world does. However, there are also major dilemmas and potential dangers in the adoption of the law. We're aware of these dilemmas. But we don't want to hide them. We don't want to hide them. The question arises as to what is the situation with other regions, how is equal treatment, non-discrimination between individual areas and economic operators. It also raises the issue of ensuring the effectiveness of control over the implementation of the law, so that unwanted abuses do not occur. Today, we must also send a message from this city to the other micro-regions, municipalities, within different statistical regions, and a clear commitment not to forget them and that they are certainly in line for the necessary measures. This commitment in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is made and we will work together to fulfill this commitment. The wall needs not help, but encouragement, and we will therefore support these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Laszlo Göncz will present his position on behalf of the Group of Nationalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Despite some justified comments, the Law on Development Support of the Pomur Region may make an important contribution to resolving the extremely poor situation in Pomurje in the area of economic situation, unemployment, social status and, indirectly, the resolution of the disadvantaged demographic situation. Otherwise, in terms of the planned success of the proposed measures, I am not as optimistic as some colleagues and law-makers, but I agree with the fact that, in terms of systemic resolution, the approximation of the province to the national average of development, the adoption of this law can be a very important start or first step. As I have pointed out several times in recent days, it would probably be very useful to include a large number of important local factors in the field of economic and political life in the initial and further stages of the drafting of the law, because I am sure that the quality of the proposed content could be even better, but I reiterate that the law for the province, where we are actually recording the worst indicators in almost all areas of social and economic life, is more than welcome. The latter is also considered to be the position of the Hungarian National Community, which lives together with members of the Slovenian people and members of other national communities in the area mentioned as indigenous. Therefore, within the framework of the said community, we have also decided to table amendments to the text of the law from the perspective of the Hungarian national community. As a complement to Article 5 of the Act, in accordance with the above, we propose that the specific needs of the national mixed area of the region should also be taken into account in the implementation of development support measures, in particular with regard to the creation of an economic basic national community. Those who know the situation in Pomour know that economic and social problems are particularly acute in certain areas of the national mixed area. The fact is also that the national mixed area has specificities which are taken into account in such a law, whose measures are specifically aimed at addressing the problems of a specific area. The issue of ensuring the economic basis of the Hungarian national community is still quite problematic in recent years, despite the fact that the right arises under Article 64 of the Constitution. We are convinced, however, that the proposed law can also take a step forward in cooperation with the Hungarian national community, particularly in terms of creating the economic basis of the national community. I am pleased that our fundamental amendment has received almost unanimous support from the home labour body, as this can also mean the beginning of community integration in the economic sphere from the point of view of the national community. I also add that I have tabled amendments that are intended to serve the general improvement of the text of the law, primarily from the point of view of directly interested investors. In particular, there are certain facilitations, guarantees and simplifications of procedures. Some have been taken into account indirectly; others have, unfortunately, been rejected. In the end, I'd like to point out two more things. I sincerely wish that the proposed law would actually help the most vulnerable region in the country to solve jobs, social problems and, above all, economic and financial problems in general, without stumbling and a new conflict between individual regions or their representatives. I am aware of the situation or very similar situation in some other areas, and therefore I believe that we need to seek solutions in other cases in the framework of the Better Regional Development Act or, if necessary, in another way. Secondly, we must all be aware of the fact that in the case of the Pomeranian region and, above all, of its premurk work, it is a very specific area that has not been in a standstill only because of recent catastrophic events in Pomurka, Mura and elsewhere, but also because of poor solutions in the past and many years of unsuccessful overall system integration in Slovenia's economic space. Otherwise, in the area of economics in various historical stages, we record different approaches of the country and, as a result, also different results, including successful episodes, but in the area of agricultural policy, it was mostly a continuous decline. If we know that between the two wars for many in the area of today's country, the Prekmurje area was considered to be some kind of, under the terms "Slovenian Siberia", some factors that have led to today's situation are understandable. Finally, let me express my support for the approach that is beginning systematically, namely by law, to solve the economic and social problem of Pomur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u59	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State Dr. Horvat with his associate, distinguished colleague and colleague. The adoption of the proposed law, which is called the Development Support Act of the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015, is urgently needed in order to provide adequate development support for the restructuring of the Pomurska Region in a timely manner. The Pomur region has been lagging behind the Slovenian average for decades. The situation has deteriorated further this year due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, which has particularly affected Pomurje. The adoption and implementation of the law will stimulate development and prevent social damage in terms of social consequences. The aim of the law is to create conditions for the start of the restructuring and development of other Slovenian regions and to mitigate the consequences of the financial economic crisis through a programming approach and funding for development support to Pomur from new and existing programmes. The law strengthens the social state principle by promoting coherent regional development and restructuring of the economy in the region facing major structural problems. There's more than one cause. I'll just count some. The wall is a social bomb right now, and it is high time for the government to tackle this problem. It is true that at the time of socialism, Mura workers gave up part of their salary to be able to build a giant Mura and secure jobs. And no wonder they're terribly disappointed and justifiably angry at the bankruptcy of Mura. Of course, the bankruptcy of Mura and the bankruptcy of Mura is a great tragedy for Pomurje and Slovenia. It's a state of emergency. Every fifth citizen is unemployed. But this is about other bankruptcys of other companies in Pomure. This is particularly felt by those workers and workers who have received decisions by the bankruptcy manager, a large number of family members who have been employed in Mura. Of course, let me also say a few words about Mura. Now it turns out that the procurator was only an extension of the owners who destroyed the company with their inactivity. The fault is solely on the owners. The owners and the union procurator were destined for Mura. No wonder criminals are investigating the suspicions of crimes in Mura. In Pomurska region, unemployment rose to 18%. Unemployment is the cause of many family tragedies, many health problems, increased number of suicides, life expectancy in Pomurje is five years shorter than in central Slovenia. But the most affected and affected are the children of those unemployed parents who have lost their jobs. Murje needs help because for several decades in the last place in Slovenia there is a risk index in the Pomurska region, which is also reflected in the accompanying diagram. For development support to the Pomur region, the following measures are set out in the proposal for a law: implementation of a programme to promote competitiveness in the Pomeranian region for the period 2010-2015, totalling EUR 30 million; incentives for employment in 70; reduction of the tax base; tax incentives for investment in 70 for new investments and equipment and intangible resources; priority for the treatment of programmes and projects from the Pomeranian region in candidates for funding from national programmes, European Cohesion Policy programmes and rural development policies. The establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre of approximately 2 million in this framework determines whether this framework provides for investments in the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, etc. The establishment of a regional economic centre in Pomurje, which means the continuation of the awakening or the regulation of socially regulated industrial zones, at the same time attracting foreign companies, giving conditions to domestic companies. We also want to provide business incubators, which are in principle [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] elections for micro and small enterprises, in order to mention at this time also the use of geothermal energy for the restructuring of the economy. [[..]] It has also been reported through this law that they are not alone in Slovenia and that this law wants to create and try to raise the development climate and encourage the entrepreneurial spirit. In the Group of Social Democrats, we fully support the law and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u61	Good-bye! Mr Vice-President, Vice-President! Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The law on development support to the Pomurski region in 2010 - 2015 is intended for faster development of Pomurje and assistance to the population who have lost their jobs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware that Pomur is in need of assistance, so we will support the law. In Slovenia we have a number of areas that are lagging behind in development and are also demographically threatened, so it would make sense for us to adopt a similar law for all of Slovenia. Otherwise, in the previous mandate of the government of Janez Janša, the National Assembly adopted a law on the income of legal persons who already know the so-called regional relief. The taxable person may apply a tax reduction of not more than 30% of the amount of R & D investment if he is in business, it is said that he has a head office and activity in the areas of the country where the gross domestic product per capita is below the national average of 15% and is 40% of the amount of R & D investment if he carries out activities in the areas of a country with a gross domestic product per capita below the national average of more than 15%. The incentives for employment of people who have been registered in the employment institution have also been in place for many years in the current legislation. The Development Support Act provides for a number of measures to enable more employment and self-employment, tax incentives for investors and a programme to promote competitiveness. The law also proposes that programmes and projects from the Pomur region should be given priority when applying for funding from the European Cohesion Policy and European rural development policy programmes. However, we miss the financial instruments listed in the Harmonised Regional Development Act, such as loans, capital injections, co-financing of feasibility studies. In Slovenia we have two examples of similar laws that have enabled certain areas to solve specific problems more quickly. It is a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje and Hrastnik mines in 2000 and the Act on the earthquake restoration of buildings and the promotion of development in Soča in 2001. However, we cannot ignore the fact that in the proposal for a law, the establishment of a government project office in the Pomur region as a form of operation of the RS Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy is emerging. The Regional Development Agency of the Pomeranian Region is therefore not to be trusted. The work could be duplicated or could become untransparent. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposed that the role of the Government's project office be played by the regional development agency. Nor is it necessary to establish an inter-enterprise education centre of the Pomur region, as all tasks can be coordinated and carried out by the development agency in cooperation with interested associations and educational institutions. We know that the situation of these educational institutions is competitive and some have no work. This would give a greater role to the existing system and rationalise the activity. The water supply project for Pomurje is already in the state programme. It is also necessary to establish a regional economic centre and this should not be pushed into this law. We agree that the demographic and economically threatened region needs to be helped. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Problems, problems and development backlogs in the Pomurska region are a fact. In the Group of Members, we really believe that finding new ways and opportunities for breakthroughs is positive. In doing so, we have certain concerns about the fact that unfortunately there are still a number of other areas in Slovenia that are also in the same or similar difficult situation. We would therefore like all such areas to be resolved equally and with the same criteria and criteria for promoting coherent regional development. In times of crisis, people are sensitive and even more critical of injustices, and we really expect the Government to prepare appropriate programmes and measures in order to tackle all areas with development problems equally as soon as possible. Nevertheless, it seems to us that the law is an interesting attempt, with a new approach and new methods to save Pomurje in a different, innovative way, and we hope that it will deliver results, especially new investments and new jobs, both in industry and in agriculture and tourism. The fact is that the need for law is clear evidence that regional policy and policy for coherent regional development have been missed in the past, unsuccessful, ineffective and has not produced results. The organisation was limping, in particular the content of projects that should promote and develop coherent regional development. It is not absurd that a region such as Pomurje, potentials such as fertile land, geothermal energy and traditionally decent hands of people, have been in such an unenviable situation. And we get an answer if we examine the projects that have already been adopted, including in the budget that we will deal with in the coming days, with the vast majority of these projects being chosen and inherited from the previous Government. While commendable are projects in the construction of local roads, bus stations, sidewalks, the look of the village, unfortunately this is not enough. Among these projects there are not many real development projects that bring new jobs, investments, for example in the production of vegetables on fertile land or in the construction of plants according to geothermal energy. It is absurd that corn is mostly observed in the fields in Pomure. The walls should be the garden of Slovenia. In stores, we should buy vegetables from there and not from Spain, the Netherlands and Italy, which points to a failed agricultural policy in the past. We have the largest number of small congregations in Pomour. Let me make it clear that these municipalities have brought a lot of positive and good for the quality of being there, but their advantage can be developed and demonstrated only to a certain extent, the problem remains with more extensive and development-oriented projects requiring cooperation, project preparation, greater means of participation and appropriate organisation. In Pomour and elsewhere there were no legal solutions and legal receptions and the excessive fragmentation of these congregations is an obstacle and a problem. We hope that this weakness will not be a problem in the implementation of this law and that the problems will be overcome. We hope with the office we support. From the report on the visit of President Pomurje, and also from some amendments to the law, we can understand the desire and desire for easier and faster opportunities for retraining agricultural land to be habitable. Here I remind you of caution and common sense. It will be bad if, because of faster development, too much and the most quality land will be lost forever. According to many experts, food will be one of the three strategic elements of the future. In this respect, Slovenia has the best potential to produce, to increase self-sustainment, which is already extremely low in terms of strategic security, right at the Pomur Plains. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the bill and hope that it will indeed be the first step towards new challenges, perceptions and ways in the field of regional policy. We also support the solution to extend the area covered by it to the area of the former administrative unit of the municipality of Ormož, because it is a geographical whole where problems and content go beyond the limits outlined by the initial proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Notwithstanding the fact that this law was dealt with on the working body last night and that it is actually difficult to verify what was actually going on on on this committee, the indications are that at least Article 4 of the decision, which is recorded in the report of the working body, is not correctly recorded. I suggest that you suspend the session for, I don't know, after an hour to re-check how the work on the working body was done, check the vote on the amendments and also check whether what is voted is also correctly recorded in the report of the working body. Here some warnings have come to us that the record is not correct that the record does not correspond to the amendments adopted and I therefore think that this proposal is more than correct. However, the problem is also that, in fact, the Government has been, for at least half a year, without direct assistance to Mura, Mr Lahovnik, the Minister of Economy, has said on several occasions that she has addressed this solution to the problem of Pomurje in a hand-to-hand manner. That we have adopted the law by emergency procedure and that the report has not been able to even lie down so that we can read it in peace. I think that this proposal has been corrected, because the report on the report adopted only allows amendments to be tabled. If we do not have an adequate complementary proposal for a law, we cannot accept and propose certain solutions. Therefore, I suggest that you cancel the meeting for half an hour, you can do so by means of the Rules of Procedure, so that all the necessary checks and solutions, which are recorded in the report, can be carried out at this time. And another comment. The government wrote that she would be represented at this meeting by Minister Zlata Plosteinar and resigned, Meta Vese Valentinčič, State Secretary and Mag. Igor Strmnik. The Government's position, without any announcement by the Government, any change that has been made to the National Assembly in any way has been presented by someone else, without the authority and without the mandate. And I don't think the government, or the Secretary-General, should afford it anymore. And you, too, should not give a word to persons who are not mentioned as government representatives. We have suspended the session at this point twice, and after the second interruption, we find that the position has been presented by someone who has not been written as a representative of the Government. However, we did not receive any warning, nor did we receive any announcement of a change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. As far as the government's office is concerned, we're 19. 10. received a notice from the Government that they will participate in support or under the Development Support Act of the Pomur Region: Meta Vese Valentinčič, State Secretary, Dr. Andrej Horvat, State Secretary of the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Mag. Igor Strmčnik, Deputy Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government. So we got a change. Here is the Secretary of State who can fully represent the Government on the proposal. However, in order not to discuss your same proposal again, I would like to inform you that, in my opinion, your proposal for a break has been corrected. That when you give me the opportunity, I will order a half break and at the same time ask all those who have any questions to report to their mother's working body as soon as possible, so that these questions and uncertainties can really be clarified within half an hour. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Perhaps the leadership of the National Assembly was informed of the foretold change. However, I would like to know whether parliamentary groups have been informed, since we must also take care of the order and proper work of the leaders of the groups. And they would probably avoid such complications if even the leaders received an appropriate notice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u68	Mr. Tanko, I'm not objecting to your warning, it was correct. We have not received any Members and Members of Parliament, because of his blocking, according to the information provided to me by my colleagues, the computer system and the Members and Members of Parliament, we have not been informed. Is this why a break is needed? The notification that the issue was correct, we have no doubt, and the notification that we have representatives of the Government who can fully represent it, too. I hope this issue is resolved. But if you want to criticize the computer system, you can. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, I do not think it is necessary to deal in this way with the one who has warned of the drawback. It's been quite a while since October 19th to this day. I note that the computer system is working at this time, but it is true that since telecommunications have been under the Minister of Higher Education and Zares, many things have been happening, including in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Frangez. Is it procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u72	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u73	Mr. Vice President. I am one of those who, until almost the second hour of the morning, sat on the Committee on Local Self-Government and tried to make this law even better. Today we have before us the report of this committee, which puts before us a complementary proposal for a law. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Trofenik, had previously presented the report very correctly from this Committee and, to the extent that there are some indications that Tanko is talking about, I think it is appropriate to know what the problem is before the meeting is suspended. Because I personally see no reason to interrupt this meeting at this point. My procedural proposal, therefore, is to first find out what are the indications that prevent further work of the assembly at this point and then proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko suggested that, on the basis of the report and their views on the content of the report and the way in which decisions or decisions were taken on the committee, certain questions should be raised. I propose that we do not discuss this at a meeting of the National Assembly, that we consider this to be a correct warning in view of the complexity and importance of the agenda item and that we will do the most quickly if we give half an hour's rest and, once again, point out, ask everyone, not only the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has any questions or comments to inform the service of the parent working body, so that we can clear up this matter within half an hour. I'm doing half an hour's rest. We'll continue at 12.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u75	The MPs. I'm informed from the board that the work is not finished yet. I therefore extend the break for the next half hour and at 12.35, please gather again and see if the committee has finished the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u76	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the correction of the report has been made. It's just multiplying. I'm asking you to listen, it's just multiplying, and it's gonna be on sent-off benches in ten minutes. In doing so, I point out that there has been an amendment in Article 3 of the supplementary draft law on page 7, then in Article 4 of the amended draft law on page 8, there are two amendments, or even three. Some other corrections, since these corrections are of such nature, are, of course, possible to make additional amendments. I would like to request that now that they have received that amendments be tabled, if they agree, by 1 p.m. Then we'd continue the session. Please, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I propose that you extend your break half an hour after receiving the amended amended text proposal, because we need to re-examine it in the Group of Members, read it and then decide on how we will proceed on this basis. There's no other way, because it's impossible to do otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I think that your proposal, there is no discussion about it, but I think it makes sense in this sense to say that if we get this new amendment by 12.45, we would then extend the holiday to 13.15. I have to give the exact time, I can't say half an hour after receiving, until 13:15, with the delivery that until then it's possible to table amendments. I think there's plenty of time. Mr Tanko, we will continue at 13.15, if anything else needs to be explained or extended, we will also do so in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u79	I'd like to ask that it's half an hour in between, because before we get together, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u80	Half an hour. We're assuming we get 12.45. It's 1:15 p.m. I'm adjourning the session until 1:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u81	Dear Members and Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. I ask the Members and Members to take their seats and calm down. Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, would you like to make a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that we cannot attribute these errors to the services of the National Assembly or to the professional services of the Committee in the preparation of the report and the amended text, because it was difficult to make a better, more corrective proposal under the conditions under which they prepared the text. However, the problem is that the Chairman of the committee who presented the report, Mr Trofenik, did not find any error. I consider this to be a gross negligence on the part of the president of the working body, who has not cured this matter. In this time period, it would also be possible, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, to propose a change in the order in which the items are dealt with and to consider this report and this law tomorrow, because we have enough time, and the services would also have sufficient time to prepare this text properly. I am also disturbed by the constant evidence of what the opposition is doing and how it is doing. Mr Frangež made a huge mistake when he attacked the one who suggested that it be checked to see what was wrong with this report. And it turns out there are six substantive errors in this report. That the correction is for three articles and six corrections. In short, the text prepared by the office, which was ignored by the president of the working body and also by a member who worked here all day, did not find any error. I think it's right that we asked for this correction and this verification. I propose that in the future we organise the work of the National Assembly and the Committees so that the people responsible for preparing the reports will have sufficient time to prepare the report in peace, and that we will also have enough time for Members to read the report in peace, and then we can also properly prepare solutions or amendments, in cases where we have any complementary proposals. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I would not allow any further discussion and answers to be made now, but I would just like to explain it to you. In this case, as far as I've been informed, it's not a human factor, but it's a problem with the computer system during the night or today. I hope that you all have the correct text of the Committee before you, and I hope that we can conclude this debate on this situation and the unloving breaks and that we will continue to work, because amendments have been tabled and we will now continue to discuss this. That's all. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh. Procedural proposal? I haven't given you my word yet. We haven't even started yet. I have to let you know. I would like to tell you that several amendments have been tabled, namely amendments: to Article 3 - of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Article 6, Article 4, Article 5, Article 5 - of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS, Article 6 - of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and Article 8 - of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We will discuss these amendments and therefore open the debate on the first amendment to Article 3 of the SLS Group, to both amendments, because the two amendments to Article 3 are. Who wants a word, please? Anyone else? I'll press charges and please sign in. But we will only discuss articles or amendments. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u84	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. First of all, I have to put myself in a position to defend myself slightly to the chairman of the committee, and I think that the work was done yesterday, although by the second hour of the morning, relatively normal, and that such errors are normal, probably as regards computers, and that a lot of effort was made yesterday. I expect more tolerance and good intentions in the sense that things are being resolved but not complicated. I must admit that it was yesterday, too, I admit that yesterday I am already this amendment, which is now ready for Article 3 and 4. Slovenian people's parties were rejected on the committee. That is why I expect that we will also reject it today because it was reached on the Consensus Committee yesterday. But allow me to say a few more thoughts, if I said earlier that this is a positive message, that is, this law or the adoption of the law for Pomurje, then I hope to say that this is also a positive message for other parts of Slovenia that face similar problems and problems. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u85	Mr Kampush, let us - we are only discussing the amendment and please do not discuss the law. Please. Because if we start like this and if I don't show my resolve right away, then we can discuss it for five to six hours. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u86	Dear Vice-President, at this moment I will agree with you, but at every smallest discussion of other colleagues, i.e. inequalities, I will warn you straight ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. As we have seen from the explanation of the DeSUS Group, we will support this law. Of course, we do not exclude support for some of the amendments that have been tabled. This time, when the debate is on the third amendment, it is likely that decision-making in the parliamentary group will be divided or will be decided on a conscience-based basis. I personally believe that the law is amended, the law is absolutely the right one to accept. However, this amendment to Article 3 certainly also refers to the supervision and system of the implementation of the programme which we want to achieve through the adoption of this law. It is important that the money to be used for the promotion and development of Prekmurje is allocated to the most vital parts of this area, so I am also personally opposed to crushing this money for various expertise and various research tasks, but we expect and want that money to be invested in an increase in the number of jobs that will have added value and thus contribute to a concrete result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In short, I didn't detect consensus yesterday, the amendments were simply over-voted. Of course, we have the opportunity to repeat this amendment in plenary. Why? It's two content supplements. Firstly, my personal opinion is that, given the knowledge of the situation that tourism, geothermal energy and agri-food, if you want agriculture, we will unfortunately not achieve a development breakthrough in Pomura. And I'll try to explain why. First time. Because the return on capital in tourism is in good times from 4 to 5%. These are widely known data - in good times. In times like these today, tourism is also in crisis. Unfortunately, our Moravian Spas, too. And I'm afraid that something unpredictable will happen there, too, of course I absolutely don't want it. As far as geothermal energy is concerned, at the prices of crude oil, as it is now moving between 70 and 80 dollars and 90 dollars per barrel, this energy is, unfortunately, uncompetitive as an energy source. This is also why some EU countries, which have such potential, do not all have, for example, Germany, particularly the former East Germany, to encourage the use of this renewable energy source, provides for certain programmes to promote this source. Without such incentives, unfortunately, this energy is not competitive and therefore there are no projects in this area. At present, two are intended exclusively for heating in Pomour, one in Lendava, the other in Murska Sobota and the third very successful project Ocean Orchids, where it is the cultivation of orchids. Again, I speak or question the return on capital at the price of crude oil as it is at the moment. The third issue is agriculture. There is probably no need to lose a lot of words about the return on capital here. Although we have an excellent project by our colleague Ferenczek in Dobronnik, an excellent orchid education project, but it is unlikely that the whole of Pomurje will now produce orchids. I agree that it is certainly not a solution to the production of wheat and maize that other solutions need to be found, to be restructured and so on. I do not wish to deny that these three areas are not important. I'm sure they're important. And these are some comparative advantages of this province. However, I stress that the developmental breakthrough of Pomurje with these three sectors, unfortunately, will not be achieved. I'm sure of that. For this reason, the proposal to add two new indents relating to the process industry, the metal processing industry and the electricity industry. In short, I am sure that even without the Pomurje industry, it cannot count on some kind of development breakthrough. These are the areas that are traditionally present in Pomurje. Process industry, for example, in Lendava, with Nafta Lendava, Lek, Illyria, etc. The metal processing industry is traditionally present in Murski Sobota, today very developed in Gornja Radgona, including in Ljutomer. But I wouldn't forget about the important area, the electricity industry. In short, I want us to open up additional options here and not just focus on those really comparative advantages of the Pomeranian province in relation to others. This is the first substantive proposal. The second content proposal proposed by the Committee as a stand-alone amendment, but this time, as an independent one, we cannot put it in place, but we have made it clear that it is necessary to consider whether these funds are earmarked, in my opinion, in particular for opening new jobs in Pomour to be exclusively intended for this purpose, without allocating these funds to make different studies, experts, professional bases, projects, documentation, and, in short, to use this money for the production of papers. I am of the opinion that those individuals who want to run for office on the basis of this law, which have projects that have ideas, should prepare the documentation necessary for the implementation of this project at their own expense in order to express their seriousness. This will show the seriousness of these potential investors that they will actually realize this idea, their project or whatever. I would not like the documentation already prepared in Pomurje, programs, etc., brief paperwork, with this open option, of course, with some method of copypast: an added chart, with a new canvas, was sold once again, twice or three times to call it that. That's why I want us to stop this because we just don't need it in Pomura. We have enough projects, we have enough analysis, we have enough programs, but we need jobs. And let us give this money, which is not much available, to devote exclusively and only for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u91	I've asked twice, I won't tell you that you haven't given me your word to answer Mr. Tank's instigation. That I will not be re-accused because Mr Tanko expects me to monitor the computer and the team of experts if anything goes wrong. I am responsible, so I would like to point out that unfortunately, in the last paragraph of the revised report, there has been a mistake again, and I therefore suggest that you suspend the meeting for so long that Members and Members of Parliament will receive the corrected text so that I will not be subject to the charges of my colleague Tank again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Please tell me just where the mistake occurred. That's what I want to see. If you press, please press [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u93	In the last paragraph of the supplementary report. But the repair at work is there in the on-call room, and as far as I'm concerned, it will be multiplied at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u94	Mr Trofenik, if you agree, we can proceed with the debate. However, since this is a mistake under Article 6, we will try to correct this mistake by then.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u95	Mr Vice-President, I have not asked for anything, I have just warned and I agree with your proposal, but I do not wish to be the subject of instigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. However, with regard to this, I repeat that I have pointed out that it was not the human factor in the course of that night and this morning. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u97	Mr Vice President, what you have said is another proof that youth and wisdom go hand in hand. This is exactly what I was going to suggest. I think we have plenty of time before Article 6 and that we can continue the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you so much for this constructive proposal! Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Nevertheless, I think that this has been all because of the fatigue of the members and members of the committee responsible for this area, as well as of the professional colleagues and colleagues. It is important to know that they finished their work at two o’clock in the morning and that at nine o’clock in the morning we started a meeting of the Plenary Assembly. This is not a normal job, and it would be a miracle if the report were prepared without mistakes. But I think she might be overworked too, I would say, this supporting information technology at this constant pace. So much for that. Otherwise, I will support the law on development support to the Pomur region between 2010 and 2015, which brings EUR 261 million to the region. With regard to the amendment to Article 3 of this Law, however, I would say that in my view it is not necessary to extend it to new areas, as some propose in their amendment. This Article discusses development support measures for this region, following the implementation of the promotion programme, the competitiveness of the Pomur region totalling EUR 30 million, then there are incentives for employment, tax incentives for investment and priority consideration of national and European budget programmes and projects. I do not think that the second paragraph should be extended, as I think that development support measures are defined here and mentioned in particular for the long-term comparative advantages enjoyed by the Pomeranian region. The government proposal lists geothermal energy and other renewable energy sources, sustainable and competitive agriculture, agro-food and, of course, tourism. In my view, it makes no sense to extend this law to other programmes. Otherwise, the region will also be able to compete with other calls from individual ministries, the Ministry of the Economy and other European Union funds, and I hope, more successfully to obtain European funds than in the past. I'm not so worried that, let's say, they're not described here in the new paragraph as a process industry, a metal processing industry and an electrical industry, and maybe there's some other industry. It will be very difficult to realize the fourth point in the first development support measure, that is, the appropriate drawback of European cohesion policy programmes if we look at how this pump has been effective in recent years. Let's see, in 2005, only 62.5% of the funds received from the European Union were realized. Out of the estimated €483 million, €181 million was spent, or less than 0.66 percentage points of gross social product. Even in 2006 only 77% of the planned funding was made available by the Republic of Slovenia. Such figures are also for 2008, as poor pumping continued in 2008 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u100	Mr. Bevk, the amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u101	Yeah. I mean, if we fail to draw funds from the European Union budget successfully, then enlargement, as proposed by the Slovenian People's Party in this amendment, will not help us. This year we can still criticise the previous government that it has been extremely unsuccessful in drawing on European funds. That is why we will have to do a lot more in 2009 and in the coming years in this area, because otherwise the opposition will give us back the criticism that we too have not been successful enough in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 3? Check-in is on. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues! I think the two proposed amendments proposed by the SLS Group make sense and I will support them. This Article defines development support measures and it seems to me that, in the second paragraph of Article 3, "roadway industry and the metal manufacturing industry" has been added, as only geothermal energy and other renewable resources, sustainable and competitive agriculture and agro-food and tourism have been mentioned here. I think it must have come from Pomurje. Finally, Mr Žerjav was an important economist there with broad knowledge. I have to respond to what was not possible the last time. Here, for the last time from the Zares Group concerning agriculture in Prekmurje, it has been said that Prekmurje is growing, that only corn is grown and that, almost fools there and do not know, do not know what to produce and so on. Very negative, very distasteful. I must say that Premur agriculture is certainly the most competitive in Slovenia, because it also has the best conditions for agriculture if there is no drought. However, many times in the last 15 years there has been drought and then there have been a lot of smart people from Ljubljana, how other agricultural cultures should be cultivated there. They were mainly from the humanistic sciences of Ljubljana, and they never met reality in their lives. Because their whole lives have been in the cabinets, in the trough, from kindergarten to politics and so on. However, when actually avian agriculture faced problems such as drought, and years ago we passed an intervention law, then the then Minister Mr. Copač said that this was one law that would never be implemented and that laws that were not implemented and then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u104	Mr Jerovšek, I would like to ask if we are discussing an amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u105	We are discussing what needs to be added here, and I agree with that. [[...]] I also agree with the second amendment, which adds in paragraph 6, the following text: "The resources intended to promote the development of the Pomur Region under this Act shall not be allocated and used for the production of studies, expertise, professional bases and documentation at all, and for the conclusion of advisory contracts." I think this amendment hit a nail. I must say, I think this law is true and I encourage and support it. But I take it, not as much as an expression, I don't know how genuine it is, wanting to help Prekmurks, but in the face of the problems that have arisen with the bankruptcy of Mura and everything else that is happening in that region are here, I think, an extraordinary opportunity in some political options to also be powered by an accident. In fact, if we do not accept this, then I am almost firmly convinced that half of this money will be for the various agencies located in Ljubljana and that the money will be spinning here, but Prekmurje will be even more poor. For see, yesterday we passed the Law on Ljubljana, where it is possible for the mayor to take no invitations, which is based on a letter of intent etc., here in order for the actual Premur economy or mayors of Premur municipalities to have such an opportunity, it is not provided for, or those who have programs. Of course, I will raise one particular question here even to the proponents, because I think they know more than I do, because they have written here in their explanation that the funds provided for under this law must be exclusively designed to promote development. I absolutely agree and should not allow for the possibility of individuals and associations, I warn, benefiting from various unnecessary advisory and manufacturing expertise. The word of the union, I think they've deliberately written it down. The word of the association is always used for criminal associations, drug companies and similar things, and I wonder if they have any information that the association has already sucked into this program? Yesterday I also saw that the law on Ljubljana, after this work, was immediately accompanied by a large interview with the President of the City Committee, Mr Gantar, and because what is more important than what Members said in the debate, I see a special "piar" in the background. If yesterday's law was primarily the law of Zares in connection with Jankovic, this law is primarily the law of SD rescue and suportation. But, of course, in this House [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u106	Mr. Jerovšek, please. Allow me to follow the rules of procedure and, because I will follow the rules of procedure, I remind you again, let us discuss the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u107	Yeah, I'm absolutely discussing it. It says here about the associations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u108	I follow you all the time, but I can't do that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u109	It says here about the associations, I'm discussing the amendment, because it says here in the amendment, and I want to know what group they're thinking here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u110	I hope someone else is listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u111	Mr. Vice President, you're violating my rights and you're counter-business trying to take my word for it while I'm discussing the amendment. Of course, it is necessary to have some width, to connect some things, and also what is being done in politics under the table. This is the purpose of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u112	Okay, I'm sorry, and I'm in violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u113	In fact, I'm afraid this law is an opportunity for associations. But let's define which community has interests here. I know that Pomurci, Prekmurci have an interest, and this vital interest that we must support, not just for Prekmurje. I would like to hear that the government thinks of other regions too, that Haloza will not begin to be discussed when the factory in Kidrichev is "crew" when the workers go to the streets there, or in White Krajina what do I know about which company and there will be a revolt, and only then will the government begin to think. As a result, we need to manifest here what these purposes and interests really are and whether they are genuine. This was the first time that these incentives and this money were really meant for Prekmurje and Pomurje. Are they going to sit down on this? There are a lot of these associations in Slovenia. The group of white collars, which is actually completely criminal, is so strong that it may have already incorporated all the instruments into this law that it will be able to supply directly from this money that will go directly from the budget. And that's my intention -- let's keep our teams away from direct power supply. And I say, this law is, with Mr Horvath's due respect, probably a law where he sees his interests as Social Democracy saw it yesterday in the "Ljubljanski" law. And I'm afraid that today's or tomorrow's newspapers will be reflective of associations in a clever way, as is the current story of yesterday's history, what the President of the City Committee really thinks. Well, I strongly support this amendment. In fact, what is the biggest problem in this country, when there is some money, is being hung on it by agencies, consulting companies and the like, and we know which channels and which pocket this money will fall into. This can't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that I have followed your debate and that the whole text of Article 3 is not mentioned by the association. The amendments have priority. Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem asks for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I asked for a replica because I think it's typical. For it is necessary to explain the wrong interpretation when mentioning the sending group of Zares. Mr Jerovšek said that the Group of the Messengers really spoke profanely of Prekmurje, of healing, of fools and the like. None of this is true. None of these words have been used. No one from the Zares Group said it was growing and there were fools in Prekmur. But we have talked about this, and that the blame is not on the people in Pomour, but on agriculture, the policy that in Pomura fields are mostly planted with corn. And we are repeating everything that this amendment also has to do with the geothermal energy in connection with agriculture, the construction of greenhouses and the construction of a Slovenian vegetable garden in Prekmurje. To be able to eat vegetables from Prekmurje, where the benefits of healthy fertile land, which is in Prekmurje, can be even greater and more people can then eat such land per hectare. Slovenia's agricultural policy has been forcing livestock farming and the related cropping of maize all past years. We supply only 30% with vegetables, Mr Jerovšek, and this is a strategic issue. Food is the strategic good of the modern world, and here in Zares we see an opportunity in the hands of the Pomurci and in the exploitation of their natural resources, represented by geothermal energy with quality land on the plain. And in this we see the meaning, and no one, Mr Jerovšek, spoke of the fool being in Prekmurje. Perhaps it is the fools who, in saying such evil things, wish to make a statement for the opinion of a member group and build their political capital on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u116	Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u117	Mr Jerovšek, I have a procedural process in which I would like to express my deepest protest over what you have said. I'm a relatively young man, one young man in this room, but I don't have enough time to listen to your stupidity. Perhaps this is the way you have worked, perhaps a longer tradition in this country. It is incorrect for a good law that wishes to provide targeted assistance to people in Prekmurje and in Pomurje, to launch an economic machine with new perspective projects, to reduce this good purpose, and not only a good purpose, but also an imaginary approach to how we will do it, with such insinuations as you can afford. I suggest that we not read the amendments as tabled in this debate. The 10 minutes of time that Mr Jerovšek took advantage of, he did not do any other work than I did and read the amendments that were tabled there. We really don't have time for this because he's in a hurry to solve things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u118	Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I have a replica of Mr Jerovsk's performance. I just want to say one thing. When we consider this law, it would be very nice to use the terminology in the title of the law. There's a big difference between Prekmur and Pomur. On one side are Prekmurci, on the other side are Prleks, and together we make Pomurje.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u120	Mr. Jerovšek, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u121	Procedural, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u122	I very much ask you to make a procedural proposal immediately before you begin to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u123	I propose, Mr President, that we are all here to receive the same treatment in the course of this meeting and in general. Mrs Orazem Zalokareva received an immediate word without being mentioned. Indeed, the Emissary Group was indeed mentioned. I didn't mention Mr. Jursha either. He got a replica. There has never been a procedural option here. If that were the option, I was the last time that lady was speaking on this matter, I raised my hand and I wanted to replicate it, but I didn't get a word back then. I must say, this protest is totally unjustifiable. I was talking about healing, connotation, corn, how the Prekmurians are unaware of how wrong they speak. I didn't say they were fools, they were said to be fools, but that the intonation was as if there were some second-rate people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u124	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u125	That from now on, we're all entitled to a replica when we raise our hand. We get a replica, even if we're not mentioned [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u126	I'm holding on to that, but I can't give everyone a word. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u127	You made two exceptions and now let it be a rule. But to Mr. Jurša, I know very well what Pomurje is and I separate between Prleki and Prekmurci, which did not separate Minister Shirca in her previous term when she spoke of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u129	Procedural, but really procedural. I was hoping it wouldn't come that far. And I feel hurt here, after all, I'm with other colleagues of my mother's working body in the morning to two seats and I've processed all the amendments and articles of the law. And we've reached a consensus without strife, in a calm way, at two or three amendments, we were different according to our opinions. Work was going on normally. Now here I see that the matter of abuse, in some strange waters, is taking the whole thing. Again, this is about inter-party shooting, which is not, I think, time. It's such a serious marriage that we Pomurci need, and we wait every day for it to be adopted. I would ask my colleagues, no matter which party or those who are more patient, not to be provoked, but to let this matter go from the amendment to the amendment, as we did on the working body. Mr President, you are a reasonable man, you can pull this off so that the matter will go smoothly. Too important is the law, too serious is the topic, too critical are the times for the Pomur region and I would kindly ask those present to finish the work in a reasonable, normal way. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal, which supports me. We're moving on. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. However, the third article on measures, on development support, to which the amendment is also tabled, should also point out that the crisis, economic and financial, occurred every time it came, at the wrong time. However, it is important that these crises reveal all those irregularities or the wrong policies that have taken place in specific areas. If today we are faced with measures and development support, which in fact contain all the chapters and areas that should be significantly better addressed in the current periods, because Pomurje also has the status of the least developed region all the time and the impact of all the regional funds allocated to this area should be significantly greater than today. When we find that everything that has been done has obviously been wrong or under-monitored. What effects this will actually have. Only the problems of the Wall apparently opened the eyes and forced the government and today the National Assembly to take additional measures and development support for Pomurje. This is also a logical consequence of these times of crisis to try to deal with this extremely big problem. One of the government's extremely courageous decisions was to try to approach and cut such a relationship as soon as possible. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u132	Mr. Weber, I'd like to ask you to hold on. Your fellow Member, Kampush, initially entrusted me with this when he gave his support. You're talking, please, about the amendment, not about the law and what's happening now and the times of crisis. Amendments to Article 3. Please, that's exactly what this means. There are two amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u133	So there's an opening in Article 3. I don't want to have any doubts as to whether we're talking about Article 3. The amendment to Article 3, one of the amendments that I have here with me, speaks of adding a new sixth paragraph - is that it? And that third paragraph refers to the fact that funds intended to promote the development of the Pomur region under this Act are not allowed to be produced and used for the production of studies, expertise, expertise, documentation and advisory contracts at all. I understand this paragraph that the resources which should not be allocated to expertise and studies under this amendment relate precisely to all the measures referred to in this Article. Now I ask very nicely before continuing the debate, because I do not want to delay this debate with unproductiveity, or do I quite understand that this amendment applies to all of these measures: the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region, the incentives for employment, the tax incentives for investment, the priority of addressing programmes and projects from the Pomeranian region. Is that the part? So, maybe the President, if I understand correctly, I just want to discuss it and stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u134	I just want to say this, say this, I'm sorry to say this to you, what you agree with and what you disagree with in this amendment. Then we can discuss it. But it's gonna be hard for me to answer whether it's right or wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u135	Look, if we are talking about development support measures, and about these amendments, I can say that, of course, I can agree with what this amendment says that funds are not earmarked for this area. At the same time, this clearly means that all the policies that have been pursued in this area and have also been financed by expertise and certain development tasks, studies have obviously not been the right decision. However, an important question is being raised here. Will all development support for all these programmes and incentives really be able to be carried out without adequate studies, without adequate analysis, without adequate documents to support these decisions, and which will finally be able to allow for measurement? Therefore, monitoring of these measures and also measurement. So I have my doubts about this amendment, because it can happen that these measures that we are planning here will also become poorly planned, as they were obviously poorly planned in the past. And of course, that is why I cannot support this amendment, because I feel that this problem needs to be dealt with seriously enough and, above all, with appropriate and professional material to enable these measures to be implemented. Above all, I would like to point out that the production of studies, expertise, professional bases and documentation and the conclusion of advisory contracts seeks not only to contain the situation in a particular area relating to these measures in Pomour, but I think it is imperative to find out what will happen in the other areas if these expertise does not contain the actual situation that has arisen in this financial and economic crisis in the other regions of the Republic of Slovenia. I can say that in Slovenia, at least one of those areas that have comparable and hopefully even worse results, which should be further analysed and expertised, is that the measures to be carried out in Pomurje will not have any further negative effects on all those regions on all those areas that have comparable results with Pomur. This, I think, is an extremely important moment, because I would not like to face the problem that one solution has then made ten very difficult remedial consequences in other areas. All these analyses, all the expertise, all the work to be done, I think that we really need to do with all seriousness and that, above all, the Government with all the authorities envisaged in this law will not repeat the mistakes of previous times. These are the serious warnings I think are in place. There's no way we're going to need the expertise to stop us from making up our minds. But I'm warning you, it's not enough to do an expert exam in just one glass, but if you have the contents that go into that glass in two liters, ten liters and so on. In short, the problem is actually complex and I think that we will also have to solve this problem in a complex way, not only in one area, but also in other areas that have comparable or even worse development indicators that we are talking about today regarding Pomur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Jacob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. We are talking about two amendments to Article 3, and in the first place only one sentence would say. Unfortunately, we do not have the landscapes to solve such things, and also what colleague Weber has just said in the end, of course, I deeply agree with that. However, in Article 3, I do not understand or will say so, I was not present at the meeting, because I am not a member of the committee that discussed this at night, and I did not listen to the explanation or opinion of the proposer, the opinion of the Government, why it rejects the addition to this second paragraph of Article 3, which speaks in particular of the development incentives for the following activities referred to, geothermal energy, sustainable and competitive agriculture and agri-food and tourism. In particular, colleagues and colleagues from Prekmur are certainly aware of what activities have a specific potential in the Pmurje area. Certainly, after consulting colleagues, on these kinds of industries, the process industry, the metal manufacturing and electricity industries, those industries that have such personnel, spatial potential, I don't know, all of these potentials that are necessary for a branch to get a new start. As far as I am concerned, and especially after knowing my colleagues from Pomur, these activities must be added in Article 3, or in Article 3, paragraph 2. Above all, I would like to hear from the proposaler why; because I suppose, given that the committee has opposed this and the coalition to this first amendment to Article 3, the proposal opposes it. I would like to hear further why the proposer restricts the possibility of industries that this law will primarily try to rescue or exploit those sectors that will be able to make primary use of the aid in accordance with this law. I do not understand this, so I expect the opinion of the applicants or the opinion of the Government. However, as regards the second amendment to Article 3, our colleague Žerjav, who is the author of these two amendments, explained why we are proposing this amendment, so that it would not ultimately prove that most of the money is for some projects that would have been done the second time, the third time and what I know how many times. That, in particular, the money that is intended for development, which is designed to encourage, is actually for concrete incentives. As a result, as it is said, I do not understand, in particular, colleagues and colleagues in the field of Pomur, why they oppose this work or whether they may have any other activities which should be included instead in this second paragraph of Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I would warn you that, in view of what Mr Trophynik said, to correct the report that you have received the correction of the report on the bench. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I will try to remain within the scope of the amendments under consideration to Article 3. This is because these are essential proposals which, in the context of today's debate, the National Assembly, as such, should understand what this amendment to Article 3 entails, taking into account that we are being heard by the representatives of the Government. It doesn't matter here to remind us of the fact that we're missing the landscapes. It is not irrelevant to overlook the fact that the proposer in this amendment was extremely precise and specific. This is because he came out of life in this area, the subject of which is the law of today. If the proposalr did not come from some assumption that he had specified things here, then this would be more difficult to understand. I understand that maybe you don't all have, I'll say, this feeling, from what the basis of the proposal actually comes from, I'll try to explain. Process industry - it's about upgrading something that's already there. It's an extension that can happen as soon as possible. These are, therefore, two important dimensions, which, taking into account any other dimensions that may still be reached in the debate on this amendment and identified, are urgently to be taken into account. When we talk about the next indent, the metal processing industry and the electricity industry, we can find a similar content here. The proposer came from something that already exists there, in this area. And what can first happen and what this area needs is, in fact, such measures, such content, so that the funds can be allocated to those projects that have immediate effect. And in these two indents this is certainly justified. I therefore support this proposed amendment with the addition of two indents in the second paragraph of Article 3. But that's not the only suggestion. Another amendment to the same article was based on what was justified at the beginning of the discussion, on behalf of the proposed colleague, Radovan Žerjav. We may not have tried well and may not have understood what he was trying to point out. We have enough studies, we have enough projects, we have enough content that can be implemented extremely quickly, it will work, it will help Pomura as soon as possible. So do not waste time in such important decisions as the content of the law we are talking about. I am confident, however, that respected colleagues and colleagues will follow these arguments. They come from some respect, patriotism to the area from which Members and Members come. If we are dealing with this area today, which has been lagging behind in certain content for up to 30 years compared to Ljubljana, this is what also gives Members and Members a sign that we must act quickly. I also want us to listen to the small content of the amendments as set out in Article 3. I'm asking for your support, because I'm going to support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u140	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I wasn't on the committee yesterday, but I'm listening very carefully to the subject, because I'm close to it, and I'm interested and I'm quite agreeing with some of the coalition colleagues who say that fatigue is the cause of some of the problems we're facing. However, not only is the exaggeration of the committee and the services of the National Assembly but it is obvious that the government is overworked because it comes with a law that is well - intentioned but is not ingenuity. He's absolutely out of his mind. And when you specifically state that the example of good practice is the case of Soča, a threatened area similar to Pomurje, there is no project office. There's no extra secretary, no extra services. All the measures taken in the Soča in the last 10 years in this segment, which we are talking about and holding a debate today, have been carried out through existing services and existing ministries and measures. When I speak of a state technical office, however, it has been set up to rehabilitate the building and other fund in this area, we are not talking about development work. The development part was taken over by development agencies in the area. Here we are setting up a new official approach with the Secretary of State, which is just an additional bureaucracy that we are moving from Ljubljana to the periphery and, in my opinion, will be ineffective. Another example when you referred to yourself in the past and also in the media read that it is a good example or good practice of the Law on the Court. There was a Council for the Development of the Court, which included ministers who had any direct impact on certain measures, I would say. Mayors and directors of development agencies sat in this world. This means that I absolutely support this amendment, which is being tabled by the People's Party to this article, because in some ways it affects at least a little bit of the possibility of some over-expert in bureaucracy and additional studies, expertise and everything else. It also interferes with this Article, as we put it this way, I would say, taxively some development options, initiatives. We don't even know, because maybe a new one will show up, but it won't be written in the law, and we won't be able to encourage it. It would be significantly more appropriate to write that development support measures are based on their development programme, which I believe was adopted as a region because we had to adopt all regions in Slovenia. This is the basis for implementing the measures. When we talked about how the 2010-2011 budget will be programmed and will have a tendency to be programmed to solve things, there would be the possibility that all of these things will be solved in the same way for the entire territory of Slovenia. We would determine, programmely, how much belongs to Pomur for certain measures that ministries must implement. With this law we are increasing or opening up the possibility that things are duplicating themselves, that things are being re-set, and I am seriously doubting this and I am concerned in some way with this Article 3. Because the possibility of programme drawing already gives the budget. This is how you mentioned in the Memorandum and in this budget 2010-2011, you would easily determine through the ministries what measures should be implemented in Pomure. But it's not like it's gonna be some kind of extra institution. I am also very concerned because neither in article 3 nor in the amendments, anywhere, nor in coordination, has much been taken into account by the local communities and the development agency of the area. That's not good. Even when you are speaking in the fourth indent of Article 3rd, the Priority Treatment of Programmes and Projects from the Pomur region - to talk about priority - we are familiar with other areas where there is a priority, the possibility of priority drawing. I know very well the Law on the Triglav National Park, where such a dictatorship is, and no project from this area had the opportunity to enforce this advantage. That's why I'm also worried about this lecture, and it's stupid to write it, but if we define ourselves, we're going to make concrete contributions to Pomurje. I don't know why you can't write the lists and take that into account. It is true that we have no regions, but we have statistical regions in charge of adopting development programmes for their areas. I hope that Pomurje has also adopted its development programme and that these measures will in some way take place after this development programme. In any event, the measure that will come from a higher instance without some quality debate and ground in the local environment will not be a viable one. The good practice in Soča was also that local communities shared these software resources without much overcoming each other in individual budget periods and that in a particular area things were developing in one municipality, in the next area in another municipality. In this way, this measure has also proved to be effective. I hope that this possibility and ability will also take place on the basis of this law in Pomure. However, I am sure he is well-intentioned, but he is certainly not well-prepared, well-written, because otherwise not all the articles would have been amended on the committee and received corrections. As I said, once again, the existing structure of the state of development agencies and all the measures that are taking place throughout the Republic of Slovenia, and not least your new approach, which talks about the programming of the new budget 2010-2011, makes it possible to do everything you write in this law, because in some ways you are duplicating, and in another way, by not recording all the possible advantages that Pomurje has, you can even, in some way, obstruct certain initiatives that will arise from this space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I must remind you once again, although the debate was interesting, but the debate on the law and we are discussing amendments. The word has Mr. Master Yes or no? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We are discussing the amendment, but the content of this amendment is so wide, particularly in that new paragraph, which speaks of the fact that funds intended to promote the development of the Pomeranian region are not allowed to be allocated and used for the production of studies, expertise, professional bases and general documentation and for the conclusion of advisory contracts, as it touches practically the whole of this law. It was said that the Development Support Act of the Pomeranian Region was a new development model. He doesn't know that. It represents a caricature of this development model, if we're honest. Virtually all the articles, except for 7 and 12, were amended on the parental committee yesterday. However, the law has not been improved to such an extent that it can be operational in these circumstances. The law is primarily a bad conscience for the government because it was not able to devote EUR 5 to a maximum of EUR 10 million six months ago to the Mura, which would have kept 3,000 jobs. In this law, the problem is not EUR 261 million for 1,000 jobs. This is the problem of this law and this is also the problem of Article 3. This article also mentions what has already been said to be interfering with individual operational programmes that are on a steady track and which should be accelerated by better functioning of government services and ministries. And it puts into this law something that is already the content of some other programs, some other projects and some other laws. It is regrettable that article 12 was not amended yesterday, which abolishes the project office. This article is thus closed and cannot be amended at this meeting, but this new paragraph of Article 3 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party is somehow related to these costs, with this bureaucracy being transferred from Ljubljana to Pomurje or to the Pomur region, if we help those living there. There's nothing we can do to help. Mr Horvath, who is sitting here today, is the first cost on the basis of this law, which will burden or burden Prekmurje. He was appointed governor, as one of his coworkers made a mockery before this law entered into force. Today we have a law on the table, we are discussing it, we are talking about it in the amendment to Article 3 in order to reduce these unnecessary bureaucratic costs, and the law, before it was enforced, is bringing a new cost to Pomour, which will not be reflected in any efficiency and in no concrete result. It has already been said that all regions in this country have regional development programmes, all of them. They had them for the period 2007-2009 and are now preparing them for the period 2010-2012. We have regional development agencies, there is no need for additional advisers, additional bureaucrats who are supposed to be facilitating development in some way. In this law, the main observation is that there are no direct measures that could produce direct results in a relatively short period of time. Unfortunately, it is necessary to say that neither is what this same government was able to do yesterday in the Main City Act, direct activities to draw funds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u144	Mr. Blackach, that's enough. Please limit yourself to the debate on the amendments. You know, you're wriggling this debate so I have to say, please, focus on the amendment. I have to be consistent with everyone. I understand what he's trying to say. I don't have to explain it yet. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u145	Your Honor, Mr President, I hope you have listened to me well and carefully. I was only talking about what has to do with this amendment to Article 3. I've talked about what this amendment brings, as long as it's accepted. To the extent that this amendment is adopted, it brings the elimination of unnecessary administrative, bureaucratic costs, the possibility of earning some advisers and allows more money to be left for the development of this region. That's what I'm talking about, and this amendment is talking about exactly, which is why I don't understand why you interrupted me. At least after the Government has already missed its opportunity six months ago, it would be wise to take advantage of this ambition in this law. Unfortunately, I fear that this too will be delayed, perhaps it can be partially rectified by accepting this and the other amendments proposed by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u146	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u147	I will adhere consistently to the content of both amendments. First, with regard to enlargement, in the second paragraph of Article 3. I would like to draw attention to the key text before listing the individual lines, which says: "In defining and implementing development support measures, the following long-term comparative advantages and development orientations of the Pomeranian region are taken into account in particular." This means that all activities, including those that I believe are properly and well-meaningly proposed by the Magi. A crane covered in the basic version of the law. Here we can come to the question that with the amendments we will auction all activities that represent the long-term comparative advantage of Pomurje, even to completely trivial activities. Of course, I purposely banalize this situation. The existing rule of law allows for the possibility of building on the process industry, on the electricity industry, on the strong metal manufacturing industry and the amended amendment to do so to no avail. Another time. We're up for well-intentioned warnings of the Magi. Regrettably not followed by the well-intentioned debate of some speakers today raised questions as to how to ensure as much transparency as possible in the implementation of this law, and we have therefore set out in Article 12 in order to avoid what the proponents point out in order to narrow the scope of the law in order to be effective in implementing it, that annual reports should be prepared by the Government's Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and that the Government and the National Assembly should confirm them and consider them in order to see exactly what happens by means of this law, how the effects of these development funds and so on. And all the rest are unfortunately malicious incitements that do not contribute to the quality of this law. I will say one more thing, if you are already such allies of transparency, why not in the budget on all items linearly say that we cannot spend the resources from this budget on research, expertise and the like. I agree that in a number of points in the history of this country, a lot of money has gone to waste on these things. But, my dears, if you ask me, this development of this country has led us to think too much of it, despite all the expertise. And it is not that we need a basic study in Pomura of what is right and what is wrong with this environment, but it is that some public investment - an economic centre with an incubator - has also been envisaged in this environment in terms of the start-up of economic activity. There will be a lot of investment in geothermal energy. In view of the fact that the dictatorship in the second paragraph also speaks of renewable energy sources, not only of geothermal energy, I would like to stress in particular the possibilities offered by the hydropower of the Mure River in Pomurje. And I respectfully ask you to focus on the essence of this law. I also wish to discuss my heart with the next article, and I hope to come to this opportunity today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica. Make it a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have understood that you have already given a replica without mentioning your name today and I thank you for having done the right thing. However, I would like to replicate, despite the rudeness, only to my colleague Frangež, what he said was that he wanted to narrow down the possibilities of law with this amendment in order to be effective in implementing it. I am grateful to him for this dictatorship, because he has removed the fog - what is the essence of this law and what they have done in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to ensure that most of the money through the production of studies, experts, professional bases has been distributed, lost and, as is always the case with such laws, which are quite often practically a dead end to corruption. And, Mr Frangež made this very clear, he said that this would narrow the possibility of law in order to be effective in implementing it. That is exactly what that infrastructure, apparently his clients, is relying on to benefit from this law as a leech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss these two amendments to Article 3? Check-in is on. I would remind you once again, we are discussing two amendments to Article 3, not the law. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as these expertises and various materials are concerned, we have enough in Pomure. And I don't understand this bile obsession that these funds, which aren't much, would be used again to produce expertise, analysis and so on. We don't need that! Do you understand me?Oh, my God! Paper blanks, we don't need the paperwork anymore, we've got enough! And the problem is, in fact, the whole of Slovenia is the same. We all know how to write a lot of things on paper, draw them when they come to reality, and then they whisper. At that time, however, we are far less successful than we are in making such and different cases. This week, we were on the Management Committee of the Pomeranian Chamber of Commerce, and Mr President of the Government was there. Where the pomurs have presented to us what they have in store, which projects and how much. 40 projects today are "ready to go". One refinery, 5 energy, 1 chemistry, safe and healthy food 12 projects, herbs, farming one project, tourism 7, technological update or expansion of existing activity 12, logistics one, total one billion hundred, and if we subtract the refinery that is 220 million. 40 projects "ready to go", and we're talking about analysis, expertise and so on. We've lost 3,000 jobs overnight. And if we say this year, I'm sure it's almost 4,000. Please don't talk to me about analysis and expertise. I know that Dr. Horvath himself has made a lot of them. He made a lot of them himself. And here we have the opportunity to take advantage of this knowledge. Don't tell me we're gonna be new and new and new. But when the jobs come. We need them now and here, not tomorrow and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u152	Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Government Representative, Governor of Prekmurje, nice greeting. I think, in view of some of the debates on the amendment to Article 3, that two more indents should be added, given that some have debated that it is possible, in particular, from the law itself, to do so, and then continue that, of course, there is no great dilemma here to support this amendment if we add two other matters to the process industry, to the metal processing industry and to the electricity industry. I am more concerned that the coalition will not go ahead with the proposal of another amendment, where it is stated that funds to promote Prekmurje under this law should not be allocated precisely for what was said just before me, i.e. for various studies, expertise, professional backgrounds and so on, and that individuals and companies benefit from this money. This amendment has all its logic, given that, as has already been said, many projects have been made. One logic, of course, is this one. Poor experience, not only in this case, but Prekmurcs, but definitely the whole of Slovenia, by how Mr Druskovic took over before, I don't know, six, seven years old part of Mure and got her on the cant. In this way, of course, he took the money, including that money under the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of the unemployed, and so on and so forth, it seems that the matter has been in court for more than 6 years. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u154	Mr. Pukšič, I can remind you of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u155	Mr Vice-President, I have even read the amendment, why not such expertise, because, of course, such expertise would only benefit individuals or some individual associations, which, of course, can be organised very quickly around state money. So we also do not need expertise, nor do we, because already in the current law on corporate income tax we have the possibility of various reliefs. Even this law says, regional reliefs, but I understand that this is of course not beneficial, even though the country could benefit from this but not from different calls. Of course, it's not because we don't have regions. Next thing you know, it's important to say. We now have legislation in force to promote coherent regional development, and unfortunately we do not, or the Government does not. Of course, we have the Government Service for Local Self-Government, we have a call, about 4 billion cohesion and structural resources for the entire perspective range 7 to 13. And here we have already warned and warned for a good half year that there is no 5th call to promote the development of the regions, which is why it costs EUR 300 million, and this would certainly benefit the development, work and new jobs in Prekmurje. We also have a regional development agency in Murska Sobota, so-called Mura, who does his job. And what I think is absolutely necessary is for the state, the current government, to come as soon as possible with this call to help, but not to do some research now to see how many millions of euros have been raised for state investment in road infrastructure, as is now seen in the budget submitted by the Republic of Slovenia, from the Premur municipalities. Catastrophically, the vast majority is actually from this area. It is also essential to co-finance educational programmes for students and students in higher education institutions, which are opened in Murski Sobota. As far as I know, the only such program that the state does not co-finance was opened in Murska Sobota a month ago. Well, it's important that in Prekmurje this year a lot of things have changed, unfortunately, for the worse. The fact is, the previous Prekmurje government has done a great deal. Finally, it brought a highway, a highway program, opened up a lot of new jobs and not least, which is not the most important, of course, but is a statusal, symbolic significance - a state holiday that the Prekmurians received. I'll support both amendments myself. But those who, by chance, would oppose the two good amendments, I fear that they are accepting this marriage more with a fig in their pocket and somehow want to do with these pardons and everything that has happened before the Prekmurks and Prekmurci to pull out and wash their hands even before the thousands of votes they have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u156	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. In my opinion, the amendments tabled above all point to the opposition's confusion when it was faced with a quality, effective and modern law and began to drown in the search for commas, dots and demagogos to relativise the importance of this law. In one of these amendments, we have a proposal to include two other activities among the priorities, but when we see that this amendment is already completely unnecessary, the law has already been amended to such an extent that it allows even greater scope than the amendment proposes, because the word 'especially' and 'finally' the reference priority also allows for the use of these funds for other purposes. What is even more interesting is the amendment that seeks to attack, on the basis of some Reagan demagogy, all that is an investment in knowledge, all that is an investment in preparation for the implementation of a particular project. And it's the end of the amendment, which is incomplete and shows the actual search for the possibility of complementing something with something that eventually turns out to be even funny, because when we ban the use of funds for any documentation, yeah, and then we ban it from spending anything. Documentation is anything. So the second time such an amendment is drafted, I suggest that it be prepared more carefully or perhaps even better not to be prepared and admitted, that is a good law, we support it. The controversy surrounding the regional office and the government's decision. It is essential that, instead of what the previous government had done and went on photographic visits to the regions, this government chose a different approach. And instead of its faces, it will bring knowledge, money and investment to the region. And when we talk about investments, there is also a government representative here, not a cost, because the government, unlike the opposition, always settles all its costs on time, but an investment. And the first result of this investment is the law we have today under consideration. The next result of this investment, I am sure, will be if we use the basketball jargon to make it the weakest member of our Slovenian team with such a good coach soon to become its captain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u158	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will also oppose both amendments. I'll explain briefly why. My friend Yuri's already taken the lead. First of all, the word "especially" is essentially spreading what you are already taking in your amendment. As for the second amendment, therefore, that this money is not allowed to be allocated and used for the production of studies, expertise, professional bases and even documentation, yes, for God's sake, what is on the documentation at all? That's all, that's the contract, that's the cooperation agreement you want, on the documentation at all. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] We know what documentation means. [[...]] I read the amendment very carefully. However, it seems very interesting to me that I will explain why this opposition to professional studies is based on expertise. In the previous mandate, a study was carried out of a company on which the Government relied heavily on its subsequent decisions on the third development axis. In particular, this study talked about where the third development axis should go when it comes to Zasavje. Mr. Zerjav will oppose me again. Last time I had no chance to answer. Before that, a study was carried out that contained all aspects, economic, environmental, social and so on, but the Government decided to take into account another study and is its follow-up, I will say, steps that were then not justified by this second study, which took into account only a few aspects. It seems interesting to me that some people previously thought that studies were a basis on which to make decisions, make specific decisions, build on them, and now simply everything that hears or smells after a study needs to be deleted. I agree that this money doesn't go to waste, I'll say ugly, just like that in some study. I'm sure or I'm hoping that this money we're giving to Pomura will be spent wisely and responsibly. Here it was said that one cost for Pomurje is already sitting here in this hall. I must take my colleague to the dam with determination, and I hope that I will no longer listen to such nonsense in this Chamber, but to the various governors. That sounds so cynical, really. Because this person, who happens to be Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government, has one important task that we are discussing today and that you are taking up in this Chamber today. That's how you talk on average. Unfortunately, Vice-President, I am sorry that you have given yourself such a difficult task that you wanted to limit this debate, but I also had to say a few more things so that I could justify why I would oppose these two amendments. And I'll say one more thing. It is essential that we come with a law in which it is legitimate to make amendments, as a colleague who sits next to me has said, to walk on the ground, which the opposition has recently read to the Prime Minister of the Government, how little it is to walk on the ground and not visit the areas we are talking about today. During the previous term of office, there was a significant increase in these visits. And only one message came from these visits. In all areas, in all the regions where Mr. esteemed former Prime Minister went, this person has discovered untapped potentials. Unfortunately, untapped potentials and beautiful words make it difficult to live. Sometimes something has to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u160	Mr. Puksich, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u161	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u162	Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u163	Because I found myself in the name of the opposition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u164	Not that I could hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u165	Yes, yes, already Mr. Yuri, so I replicated [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u166	Mr. Pukšič, I can't give you a replica. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u167	Let's take a look at the magnetogram, I'll bet my salary, he named [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u168	Mr. Pukšič, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u169	He called us the opposition, but he didn't talk about the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u170	Mr. Mag. Crane, here you go. Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Whoever's cynical in this room could be debated long and wide, and I don't want to. I want to give at least two answers to my esteemed colleague. First of all, I didn't order this study you were talking about. And secondly, I have said this several times, I am in public myself, I am very sorry that my colleague, Mr Barovic, is not here to confirm this, I have publicly opposed these studies that you are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u172	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm really sorry that we've been discussing this matter for an hour, which I don't think is as exciting. This is a complement to the second paragraph. The thing is, someone said that the dictates of the article itself or of the amendment would be enough to make it unnecessary. And even if we let that go, let's say we put these two industries as an amendment to this article, there's still going to be a problem in some way, because there are other sectors. We could then even take a classification of the activities of the Statistical Office, and there would be some if we didn't. That's why I think we're wasting too much time here on such irrelevant matters. Now it's a thing, why did it come to this? And here's the original sin. The Secretary-General knows how this law was formed, because it was essentially written by two people. Those who should also have a say in the drafting of the law to cooperate, I mean the Pomur Chamber of Economics, the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions, but were in some way pushed aside. In the last days, in the last days, when I had already stated my point of view, they were attracted to so much that they calmed the spirits of the province near Mura, because there were too many objections and protests. I am referring to representatives of local communities and other important factors of economic and other life in the region. That is why such conflict situations are now taking place. This is where it goes more, I think, this second part is complemented, where I would just agree with the proposaler, Mr Žerjav, and we have also drawn attention to this at the meeting of the mother's working body. I then gave an explanation why - even in the Slovenian National Party we have concerns and comments about this, because in Article 12, which speaks of restricting the use of resources to produce these varied studies, expertise, documentation, advisory contracts, we have had very poor experience in Prekmurje in the past. I do not know why the law was made in such a way that it points out again, of course, that it can be done, even though I understand that projects that will be carried out could only take place on the basis of certain studies. But here is the lack of confidence in the region in such services so much that people simply do not trust. Mr Secretary, not you, in the first place, which director of any development agency, so that I will not mention any further, to those who have usually been at the trough. But development sees where it came from in the region, and don't take it as a low-level criticism now, because there are several other reasons why we came where we are right now. Therefore, I would now say in a constructive manner about this amendment the following and suggest that this amendment be accepted, and perhaps we will not then argue here again about whether we will also indicate that gardening, production, processing of herbs, poultry farming, revitalisation of cattle, alternative crops in agriculture as for example Lucerna, etc. Because this will then occur at the time of the implementation of the law itself. That's why I'm asking that we go to other amendments, because otherwise I don't know when we're going to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 3? Yeah, I can see the hands, so I'm opening a debate. I open the application for discussion on Article 3 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I am the opposite of my colleagues, Györek, because this is where it was discovered that this amendment is the amendment with which the cats stepped on their tail and there is so much about this loud move. In fact, when I listened to this jaguar of young SD stormers, it was very clear that they were terribly unhappy, that with the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party they had shown themselves to the core of the problem, where, what is the significant content of this law. The significant content of this law, unfortunately, is, I have also found that it might be justified to call it the recapitalisation of social democracy. And like yesterday's law, the law on the recapitalisation of Zares and Mr President of the National Assembly sang praises to Zoran Jankovic, a great innovation, so today's law is sorry. And we are fighting for this not to be a recapitalisation of the political option, but a recapitalisation in Prekmurje. And because of this, it is important that such an amendment - perhaps another branch can be changed - but nothing else can be added to such an amendment. In fact, a colleague there earlier talked about Reagan's demagogism, but the government will bring in knowledge, money, investments. Strangely, it was not said that this was a modern paradigm, something "modern" was said, because everywhere is a "paradigm", and then most people don't understand what they mean, and the thing is solved. But knowledge, money, investment - yes, why only after one year and after events with Mura and Gorenje? Why, if you have everything so designed, all in your hands, all the knowledge, all the intellect of this world is in your hands, why didn't you offer it to Prekmurje then, why not just after a bad hour in Prekmurje? After the events in Mura, after the events in Gorenje? Why don't you bring this knowledge and all the expertise you have? In fact, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to tell him how he imagines that this matter will run, that it will not be in 70% of the recapitalisation of the party of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Frangez, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u177	I think we have really exhausted the debate on these two amendments. All that Mr Jerovšek says is - I can't find any more words to remain within the courtesy that I owe to Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u178	Be polite and tell us what your procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u179	My proposal is that you conduct this meeting consistently and, in such discussions as Mr Jerovšek, honourable Mr Tsukjat, you are strongly reacting as President because you owe it as the first of the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you. The word is from a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u181	A respected choir! Let me just say this: I don't have TV at home, I don't watch a lot of TV, and I'm not used to this kind of debate. I would really like to ask you if we could concentrate on the content we have here, and we're not taking advantage of things. It took a long time yesterday, it was a late hour, it's late today. And as far as I'm concerned personally, my studies or any work I've done so far, we can settle down at the coffee shop downstairs, but here let's focus on the actual content, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you. But I must say that in the National Assembly, unfortunately, you will not always find the level of debate you would like. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, I will not, because Mr Frangež has warned me that I must conduct the meeting as it is under the rules of procedure. Mr. Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will stick to the content of the proposed amendment to Article 3. If I read it again: "The funds intended to promote the development of the Pomeranian region are not allowed to be allocated under this law..." and so on. This seems to be a very loving amendment and I have no reason to doubt the well-intention of the proposer. We have witnessed in the past a variety of major abuses of this kind, just under items quoted by this amendment, a lot of money was for expertise, for studies, for advisory contracts and so on. After all, the previous government has practiced this only to mention how much money was spent on our experts in negotiations with Croatia, for Dr Pogačnik and so on, but this was a practice which was common and which, after one conditional reflection, was to continue in this development law for the Pomur region. If the well-intention of the applicant is beyond doubt, the benevolentness of the most opposition party, which also supports this amendment, is likely to be more questionable. It is understandable that part of the opposition is not interested in the success of this law and no article of this law. Now, if we are very practical and return to this proposed amendment. It is difficult to imagine the effectiveness of the development project for the Pomur region without certain items to be deleted from the list of development procedures by this amendment. I can't imagine efficiency without professional grounds, I can't imagine efficiency without documentation. For every procedure, for every implementation of every step and procedure in the recovery of such a serious situation as the situation in Pomura, professional grounds are also required. Without a professional basis, the possibility of even greater public spending without a real impact is even greater. On the other hand, it is true that abuse may also occur and there may be an unrational and irrational use of such resources. But I certainly don't see the point in telling the law any of the resources available for the professional documentation and for the expertise. This can be explained and also defined in the sub-laws, in the protocols, in the regulations where, I am sure, the Government has no interest, in this case, in the case of Pomurje, which is an exclusive and symbolic problem of the entire crisis of this society, this country, I do not see any interest in the Government, so as to abuse something that is intended for success, even in a political sense. Who can imagine that this government is interested in the failure of this development law? Please, this is the main parade horse of this government. If successful measures and effective actions are to be taken and concrete results are to be achieved, this government is most interested in this. So, the success of the Pomurje project is an axiom. Pika. It's clear. If anyone thinks that the government reacted in this way, after Mura went bankrupt, when he threatens or when more than 2,000 workers are on the road, that the government is interested in stalling this situation, somewhere permits - that would be political suicide. Of course it's not! So, I believe that good practice will also be established in the case of Article 3 and that there will be no abuse, because if anyone has an interest in non-abuse, the Government is at this point. Unfortunately, we cannot say that for the opposition's biggest client. The biggest party of the opposition is at this point interested in failure, afraid, "rided tiger" of dissatisfaction of Gorenje workers, agreed on in Gorenje, raised wages, rode at the dissatisfaction of workers and Mure workers and here is the government's response, precisely in this law. And of course, the opposition is concerned that this law would be truly effective. It therefore supports all amendments which could, in one way or another, restrict the effectiveness and usefulness of this law. Therefore, once again, I should like to tell the applicants that the purpose is good and I hope that the Government will prevent any misuse of these funds for unnecessary expertise, consultation and so on and that, in fact, it will be constantly and seriously vigilant to ensure that all funds are used and used rationally. I cannot support this well-intentioned amendment, and I hope to say that in other amendments, we will run into such obviouss again. In particular, I believe in the well-intention of this law, because in the coalition we are all well aware that if there are no results in Pomurje, which can become a pilot system for regional development of other less developed regions in Slovenia, then we have lost this war. And of course we don't want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I appreciate that the debate is good and appropriate, but it is not going in the right direction. But it is from this debate to follow the word "knowledge, knowledge, knowledge and knowledge". And within this programme is a very wide range of assistance to the economy of various forms. Within this we also find the establishment of a regional economic centre for the Pomur region, a 30 million-dollar economic centre, and we find an incubator within this economic centre. Business incubator - not every one of you, if necessary: one, two, three. So to pick up those ideas that even in Pomur are, those that have studied and have knowledge in different fields, from agriculture to industry, tourism, etc. So these ideas need to be picked up, and for those with ideas, we need to give them an opportunity to develop into entrepreneurs' incubators. What does a business incubator mean? The corporate incubator is a simplified, hatchery of new micro and small companies. This is the content of Articles 3 and 4. So for these business incubators too, there is a need to find funding within this complex, of course, to be financed from this. For this reason, some segments need to be kept and some documentation should be provided so that these business incubators can be established. In the enterprise incubator, according to our data from Slovenia, 60% is seized. So out of the 10 smaller companies that are included in the incubator, 6 meet them, start doing business, start hiring, and these are the important small points when they can develop into real companies in the long run. I see no reason, nor can anyone convince me that for this documentation, for these smaller projects, the establishment of the incubator would not be spent on this available money. Because of this, Your Honor, there are many indents within which this context can be financed and I do not want things to be closed in an abnormal way. For that reason, I cannot support this amendment to points 4 and 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you. Because there's still an interest in the debate I'm opening the application. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u187	Mr. Vice President. We've wasted a lot of time on this third article. I think that, with all the creativity that we are going through in this Chamber, we cannot give this debate any more added value around this article. Mr. Vice President, we have a few more members to attend to. This law has 14 articles and I propose that you put to the vote a procedural proposal to move on to the next article. I ask you politely because the content in the following articles is also important. I respect good intentions. Mr. Žerjav, please, I give you good intentions in these laws all the time, and I suggest you do this absolutely. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u188	Mr Frangež, I will not put this to the vote, of course, because freedom of speech is one of the basic issues of parliamentary democracy. And Mr Luka Juri has long earlier raised his hand to discuss further, so I am opening a motion to debate, still on Article 3 and the amendments to this Article. As long as it's of interest, we'll talk, Mr. Frangež. Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u189	Mr Vice-President, if time is exhausted for discussion at the time of Article 3, my right to say something about the content of Article 4 will also be affected, where the amendment, which undermines the basic concept and approach of this law, is proposed. I'd like us to approach that. That is why I will be as unfair as many speakers before, including Mr Jerovšek and Mr Cernač, in whom the word did not reach out, but they did not talk about the content of this amendment. That's why I'm gonna say the following. When we talk about the accumulated problems of this country, we do not say this because we would like to look in the heritage of Janez Janša or previous governments for an alibi for our work. On the contrary! In these discussions, we would like to draw attention to the fact that we have many of the structural problems that this crisis has revealed. However, we also have a country, and one year after the takeover of power, we can clearly say today that it is clear that the competence and effectiveness of this state administration is not what we would like to see the country come out of the crisis effectively. Because of the pressure within the parliamentary group I belong to, I will conclude my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u190	Mr. Luka Yuri, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u191	Dear Vice President, I've asked for a procedural request about five minutes ago. My procedural proposal is that, under Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, when a Member of Parliament or a Member is present here, you take this into account. There I was named, not by name and surname, but clearly named as that gentleman who is discussing a particular subject, so it would be very correct for you to take this 70th article into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you. In order to understand, I will only give the replica when someone is named by name or by surname at least. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u193	Nice greetings, respectable vice president, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about an amendment that aims to reform the law in substance, so it is for those who are in opposition and we really want this law to be adopted in order to adopt a good one, an insult that the coalition representative says the opposition is willing to fail in implementing this law. We are patriots in the Slovenian People's Party and therefore we support this law and want to have a rich Slovenia, whether we are in opposition or in coalition. That's why I don't think such words belong in this law. As far as these two amendments are concerned. The amendments point to the great traps that have also brought Pomurje into a difficult situation today if the economy in a region focuses too much on one sector. And so much of the emphasis on agriculture, tourism, geothermal energy, we fear that, in fact, there is some kind of false signal, and we think that by diversifying the various activities that are mentioned, from the process industry, metal processing and electricity industries, which are great opportunities, it would be right that the challenge is already on the basis of the day that Pomurje is also diversified so that not over 50 years in the face of a crisis which should now have exactly the same priority would again be met here in Parliament. As regards studies, expertise and spending for these purposes, we firmly believe that these funds are not as large as they appear at first glance, and that this is mainly leaven for projects that are already ready for projects that will give new jobs tomorrow, which Pmurje also needs. That is why we think and strongly support this proposal and from a number of experiences, I think that we should come as soon as possible with very clear conditions for those who have projects prepared and that these projects start tomorrow, but not start with these four experts. Whoever has a good project would certainly have so much money that this first part, which is located somewhere between 5 and 10% of the total investment, will find it. Because so much seriousness for the project is needed in the beginning that we can then implement this project. This is our position, and I think it would be right for us to confirm it in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 3? [[No, no, ……]] We then turn to the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment proposed by the mag. The crane provides for the deletion of the first indent of the third paragraph of this Article, which states that the text would be deleted, that the programme covers the following instruments, including support for the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region. I have already started to say and said that in a year since the start of the new coalition we can no doubt find out two things today: for the first time, that the problems we are facing are deep, and that each of these problems has its deep structural roots, including in 20 years of wrong development patterns. Secondly, we are faced with a country that is largely ineffective and inherited from the predecessors, and in many respects it is a barrier rather than an incentive for development. We are clearly aware of these dimensions of the moment, and we are also aware that we may not have been successful in some of the measures so far, because there are two circumstances. This brings us to the realization that the development model so far has been completely exhausted and that we need to replace it with a new one. What is ahead of us today, the Pomura Act, is the first model, the first attempt to replace the exhausted development model with a new one. We are talking, of course, about a project approach that doesn't want to keep thousands of similar problems around with the same vats, but they want to focus on a clearly identified problem, and this is Pomurje's development backlog, the lack of competitiveness and the underdevelopmental propulsion of the pomur economy, followed by all other accumulated social and other structural problems in the region. This is the only way to solve thousands of accumulated problems in this country from case to case. This is the approach proposed by this government. I commend this approach itself, and I think it may represent an important new component of our social governance. It's a new political technology. I promise that through this we will also get better and smarter governance of the country; a country that will be fit to solve social problems for the general benefit of all. After one year, public confidence in this government is indeed record-breaking. I must say that my confidence in this government is greater than ever in the knowledge that the model that the amendment wants to delete is needed. It is true, we have been hunting, we have probably made a mistake, but today, a year after the elections, we know that this country needs to be restructured not only in individual sectors, but also in the way it works and in its ability to respond to societal challenges. In addressing this law on Pomour, in this first indent, which means that the country is going to the heart of the problem, it provides assistance to regional and local development factors in order to reverse this circle. That is why, of course, I cannot support this amendment, and here I wonder where the applicants see this evil. For this is what may be the added value of this approach. We have already spoken long and wide yesterday, and we will also today, when we present the candidate for Minister, about our policy in the field of local self-government. And our common conclusion must be that, with the important priorities provided by local communities, the local communities today do not have the arsenal to replace the power of the state in order to push for development. And in this respect, I really wonder who is afraid of new concepts and who is afraid of the success of these concepts. In this respect, I object to this amendment. I think it's harmful for an imaginary concept that tries to solve these problems through the "place-based-policy" approach. I believe in this concept, and I sincerely hope that this amendment will not be adopted, because in this way it would jeopardize the whole concept that this law on Pomura brings.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've been apart in thinking for quite a few light years. I wish the government all the best in implementing this new concept, honestly, because it will be good for all of us if it succeeds. Mr Frangež, I sincerely invite you to come to Pomurje to help us solve this situation that we are in. I see you have a lot of ideas, you get there with concrete ideas, concrete projects, and let's start solving the situation. I'm seriously inviting you. Otherwise, given that it has been said that by deleting this indent, which says,'support in the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region', we will be in the Slovenian People's Party or that I, as a proponent, will destroy this new concept. With this line is foreseen, ladies and gentlemen, three million euros. Three million euros to support the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region. In other words, counseling. I'll tell you again, look, the business views of the Pomur Chamber of Commerce, we've talked about this with the President of the Government. 40 concrete projects that have been cited and gathered by the pomur economy, and projects that are "ready to go", we are talking about supporting the preparation and implementation of development projects, in short, for the advice they will implement, and I don't know who, after all, I don't even care, so you will take responsibility for this, so that we can spend three million euros. Please! 40 projects worth 220 million open up the estimated 929 employees. I read what the Pomur Chamber of Commerce wrote, I hope you believe this institution, that they didn't make it up, at least I hope, I believe them, I have no reason not to believe them. And we're going to spend 3 million euros for counseling, by the way, from 30 to 10%.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In this part, when the amendment to Article 4 is being considered to promote and open new jobs, it is impossible to go past the Mura, which is a reflection of the prevailing situation we now have in Pomura. The high labour costs that have arisen in Mura, with the great excess of the workforce, in the eyes of all those responsible in all the governments so far, have not bothered anyone. It was estimated that Mura was a socio-economic project in the region, which was also undeniable. And all the current measures are therefore linked to the dismissals of workers and the closure of the Wall. The wall is also one of those that has contributed most to the development of the entire region. The demographic state of the region is poor and prevents normal development. Ageing of the population is obvious and exceeds the Slovenian average, which is reflected in economic factors. The acquisition of new jobs that will reflect the added value of the invested funds - I repeat, which will reflect the added value on the invested funds - is the solution for the region. Measures that will be short-term and have a long-term impact are welcome and must also be supported. With new jobs, of course, these jobs must be paid, not only are we establishing them, but they must also be paid, the position of the region will improve, allowing for the approximation of average development in Slovenia. As we can see, this is a region where the level of education of the population is quite low, so it is necessary to consider the employability of these populations, as education here is questionable in terms of age. The country must ensure a level playing field in all areas and regions in Slovenia, so that the extension of one region raises concerns from other regions facing similar problems. We have certainly learned something from the Mura case, so that even in this case I do not see any assurance that this time it will be different. Of course, we all hope that, because the development law and the intervention of the state must be a guarantee of the state in order to bring Pomurje safely closer to a more developed average in the country. Of course I'll support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and the amendment to this Article or Article 4, I apologize. I can't see the hand, so yes, I can see another hand. [[...]] I'm opening the application. On Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. In this Article, we are talking about a programme to promote competitiveness in the region in the period 2010 to 2015 and the amendment we have to this Article is somehow similar to what we have discussed in the previous Article. It speaks of a number of things in this law that could be done without this law. This region, like all others, has regional development programmes and concrete projects to be supported immediately, today, with concrete means. However, what we have in law and also in this article and what happens through the law are additional costs that will further burden the implementation of those projects which are on the road somewhere and which should be supported by concrete means. And in this part we are talking about these advisory contracts, about studies, and finally about this project office. That is to say, the Secretary of State was appointed to this area before the law entered into force. And the cost will already be borne by Pomurje. This law will enter into force on 1 January and the only measure in this law that we can now perceive, which is already tangible and concrete, is an additional cost. That's the wrong signal, and it's not a good signal. Second problem. More than once there was talk of an intervention law, a law that solves something, something unexpected happened quickly. The bankruptcy does not require intervention law. After this logic, you'll have to come up with at least 10 more of these laws in the coming months, because bankruptcys are likely to be a lot more, given what you're not doing, and we should. And instead of following concrete action on a specific area six months ago with relatively small resources, after six months a law with huge funds has occurred, the financial implications are estimated at EUR 261 million, with relatively strong success. It has also been said that it is now a new development concept and that this law brings about a new development concept and that the previous development concept was a bad one. The development concept for promoting regional development has been considered in particular. In the previous development concept, which was bad in your opinion, the previous government has been able to implement four regional development calls in just one year, with a new period of financial perspective, and this government not one. The fifth call for two hundred and two million euros for all regions, including Pomurje, has not yet been published. And yesterday, the future minister, if you vote him, if you don't fight first, he didn't know when he was going to be published. So now this new development concept, which you don't even know what it is, is good. It is not just a new development concept that a person is called something that is supposed to do things that are more paper than real. And the opportunity was indeed, if it had already been delayed six months ago in the event of the rescue of a particular company, but it was now an opportunity to show solutions for the future and also for others who would obviously happen in the coming months. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been delayed, and I must say that there was one attempt on the committee yesterday to add and amend this law, which has also been fully amended, except in two articles, the whole has been corrected, but in this fundamental sense I fear that it has not been corrected; and this is a problem. Of course, it is impossible to oppose him because it seems then that you are opposed to the development of this region, but the problem is that the effects that everyone would like to have come through this law will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Brunscoll.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Mr Secretary of State, along with colleagues, presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, of course, the debate on the adoption of this law can be such or different, and we can now debate back on who was successful, who missed the opportunity. Here I also agree with some colleagues who have already discussed other matters today. You can really think of a lot of things. I have already said several times, and I will now repeat it again, and perhaps in the next three years, it is not a problem to be successful when it comes to honey and milk and high economic growth. However, the problem is only one or we have taken advantage of all the opportunities and opportunities in the given situation. This is hard to say, for if that were the case, then Pomurje would have been solved, so today we would not have talked about it at all. There were desires, interests, pre-election visits at that time and so forth, but the matter did not move on so far as not to be forced to accept or discuss the law today. Also as regards the first call, the fourth call and now the fifth call, I certainly do not resent the fact that, at that moment, some of the people who asked questions did not respond to the exact time when the invitation to tender would be issued. Why should he talk about these matters before he's confirmed? I think that's clear to each of us. Perhaps one of the colleagues, I don't know, who is in office today, for example, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor or the councilman, could tell you when a local community will have, for example, an invitation to finance sports associations or organisations in its local community. I don't know why you should know so clearly before he was voted. But it's not an excuse, but it's a fact. Even with regard to previous development concepts, and everything that has been done, I think that the president of the Committee on Local Self-Government has made very clear in a few discussions, as well as other colleagues, how this regional concept of calls has also been defined in terms of coherent regional development - extremely interesting, not equally balanced. So I can say, if I look from the area of the White Land, where I come from, there are problems. I will certainly be the one to support the Pomura Act on the one hand, and on the other hand the amendment to complement and adapt the law on coherent regional development to all areas, to all other areas, not only the White Land, but also many others who are in trouble and need help. Therefore, reports will also be required here in writing, we will have the opportunity and the opportunity to monitor the matter and then we can be so much sharper if we see that there is no real effect. I will support this law myself, and also in the next debate, I may not even be announcing it now, because I think we discussed it long enough on the committee itself yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 4? No, no, no. I then open an application for a debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 5 refers to the fact that a taxable person, under the Income Act, who for a period of at least 12 months employs a disadvantaged worker or worker in the Pomur region, may impose a reduction of the tax base by 70% of the costs of that worker. This is a gross salary, mandatory employer contributions, social security, child and parent care costs. In short, it is a concrete proposal to relieve the employer's obligations, all those which will, of course, save the unemployed in Pomura. The measure is extremely important, and I think it is extremely effective, but I would like to point out that it can cause very large imbalances or very large problems in other areas, because today we know that the company is extremely difficult to maintain competition on the market and that everyone will be interested in opening up their production in the region offering specific tax reliefs. What impact this will have on those areas that have comparable problems with Pomur is, of course, a very large issue that I would also like to draw attention to on this occasion, and I really expect that solutions for other areas that have the same or even worse problems than Pomurje will be addressed as effectively and with such measures as in Pomurje. If there are no comparable measures, this competitiveness or non-competitiveness of sites not in Pomura will lead to an unprecedented situation and, in fact, to very serious problems in the development of Slovenia in the future. We will therefore have to become extremely effective in the resolution of other areas that are not currently listed in the Pomur region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 4 or Article 5 and the amendment? Yeah. Just Yuri? Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Yuri. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you, Chairman. I am joining my colleague, Webro, in assessing that this amendment is crucial, as it gives that added value to the law that we expect when effectively remedying the economic, economic or social difficulties that have arisen in this region. This is mainly about the application of an effective tax policy. Everywhere in a serious country, where similar problems and similar critical moments arise, the government has in particular the power to promote development through appropriate tax arrangements. In this case, it is an intervention and a proposal which I believe will be supported by all Members, as there is no doubt that a 70% reduction in the tax burden in the case of income is a real stimulus to investment in the Pomur region. This is one of those concrete measures, and this must also be said to the public, which will be welcomed by all stakeholders and all those who consider it to be a very effective tax policy which can be effective when applying tax policies are in the hands of the country, which would not have been possible if they had adopted a single tax rate model four years ago. Since we do not have that model, we can intervene today with tax reliefs of this nature. This needs to be stressed, because when it comes to state action, we hear a lot of demagogies. And in this demagogue it is forgotten that some years ago, in particular in the previous term, someone wanted to take away the country from the use of tax policy. That didn't happen. We have a chance to intervene in this case. And it is this amendment to Article 5 that sets the whole law in the light of the effectiveness that we all expect from this law. So, more investments, more opportunities with tax reliefs for those entrepreneurs, for those companies that will employ workers and workers who are disadvantaged under such conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you. I see the deadlines, so I will open an application for a debate on the same Article, Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Please all sign up for the debate. Mrs. Roach. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will be rational, and I will join the debate on this and the next amendment, because it seems to me that it is necessary to be as short as possible for us to say everything we can about this law. Of course, I will support this amendment, but with a very important condition and thoughts. This is that this method of assistance to affected areas, also affected by the crisis in affected areas in Slovenia, will be included in the amendments to the coherent regional development law as one of the methods for all affected areas. Because if we go to look at statistics and you could say, in Slovenia, which region is as affected as Prekmurje, we cannot talk about it. However, individual municipalities, not small and with little negative indicators, are also needed incentives, not so much in money as incentives to compete in the market for investment offers and to open new jobs. This criterion or method can be very good everywhere in Slovenia, where such an incentive for development is necessary. Therefore, I would also say in the amendment to Article 6, which speaks of extending the period for five years, that the first, which seems to me to be immature to extend the period when a large amount of money is allocated as a package, it is said, whether it is 10 years or 6 years or 11 years old, that it is always considered to be a period for which that amount is then dispersed and only the achievement of this very important, quasi-important, amendment that the period of revitalisation of development in Pomura will eventually be extended and, in essence, the effectiveness will be reduced. For this reason, I believe that this amendment to Article 6 is reckless and those who tabled it did not know that it is wiser to have a shorter, very clearly defined period in which it will have to be very clear towards the end what the effects of the recovery of these measures were. Then it can be said that it is simply essential to change the way in which this province behaves, because everything shows that the long-standing problems of Pomurje are not only hidden in the fact that Pomurje, as an agricultural and labour-intensive area, has been affected by this crisis, but this is because Pomurje has constantly lost his staff. And when you propose the deletion of Article 8, I would like to say that the inter-enterprise education centre will in fact be one of the magnets that will attract the pomur and premurje personnel back to their home areas. Go see how many Prekmurcs and Pomurcs are scattered all over Slovenia. If you take care of this in Pomura alone, I stress, above all, that you yourself will create attractive conditions for young and middle-aged people who have left, and that they will see the opportunity, then also because the properties are cheap for now and so on, you can count on the return of your own staff. The people who were born there, the people who went with the belly for bread from Prekmurje and Pomurje, they will be just as a result of measures such as the establishment of an inter-enterprise educational centre that will create new jobs and also draw creative spirits back to Prekmurje, thus also achieving the success of this law or what the state wants to do for Pomurje. But there's something else I have to say. I will personally support this law, because I think it is high time for something concrete to be formed and started for such a deprived province as Pomurje. However, I reiterate that in the short term I expect the Government to offer the National Assembly and Slovenia a law on coherent regional development, in which there will be clear and uniform criteria for specific development incentives also in disadvantaged municipalities, not only in the provinces, because there is only one such one, and it is necessary to look at the situation in individual municipalities. We can just list them because there are few: Rushes have a 15.5% unemployment rate, it is said that peaceful souls could attach them to Prekmurje. The hut has an almost 18% unemployment rate and could still be listed. Isola now has 7.1% of unemployment. However, at a time when such a similar law was passed for the whole of Slovenia, 24% of unemployment and we succeeded.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. It seems to me that the coalition Members will come up with what we in the SDS have proposed with a set of measures in April this year. The activities proposed at the time, or the measures taken at the table at the time, also discussed employment incentives and investment facilitations, were unfortunately rejected. I am also pleased to hear from the rulings that a set of these measures should be extended to all areas which are in one way or another at a developmental risk, and it is good that yesterday the Committee adopted an amendment which, at least in this law, extended this area to the administrative unit of Ormož. At least something was done on the committee yesterday. In view of the predictions we have seen in recent weeks that the number of unemployed in Slovenia is increasing and reaching 100,000, it will soon exceed 100,000 and probably 120,000. Ipc 150,000 is the time to take these warnings given by individual coalition Members seriously and to extend the validity of this law, which now applies to only one region, to the territory of the whole country. I think that this would be one of the effective measures that would allow for faster development, which would prevent an increase in unemployment and a reduction in economic activity. I am pleased to finally hear from the rulings that the tax burden needs to be reduced, not to increase what we have heard not long ago, and in this particular case Article 5 and also Article 6 in the law, we are talking about reducing tax burdens, which is the right way. Only through the reduction will it be possible to get more. And a model like this should apply more broadly. So with this work of marriage, I don't think anyone in this room has a problem. However, in some other provisions, which needlessly impose on taxpayers the fact that one large part of this money, which is intended to be intended both for incentives for employment and for other specific measures, will go to some advisory, such and other organisations and for unnecessary red tape, which we are setting up in addition to escape routes. We have the Secretary of State sitting in the cabinet of the President of the Government, we have the Government Office for Local Policy for Regional Development, we have the Regional Development Agency Mura and so on, and a bunch of institutions that have programmes and yet this bureaucracy is spreading through this law, which is not good. This is how I support this intention of Article 5 and the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5? [[No, no, ……]] Then we turn to the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Well, this amendment speaks of saving the period from five years to ten years, and this period refers to the possibility of applying a 70% reduction in the tax base to invest in new premises, equipment, in short, new production programmes. This five-year period will be extremely critical for all other areas that will not have these facilities. If we extend it to another ten years, we can talk about having very large development problems in all those areas that will, of course, be outside the Pomur region. And you can imagine what kind of situation we're going to be in in areas where industrial zones that are financed by European funds, with their own resources, are going to be called for the sale of these land tomorrow. Who will be willing to build in zones outside the Pomur region, because we will primarily be uncompetitive with an area offering 70% relief if you invest within the intended area in this law? That is why I do not support this amendment, because it actually means such a huge gap between all other places in Slovenia, which will never be rectified. And what I would like to point out again is that not only are we waiting now for five years for what will happen in Pomurje, immediately, but we must start procedures this year to treat all areas that have similar development problems to Pomurje. And this appeal I think is really one of those that we must realize that we will not cause ten more problems with one law than one solution, one good solution somewhere in the area that we are adopting this law. Investments and investment facilitation are an extremely important element, and even if you build an incubator and you have it in some environment, even if you have a program that you have in this environment for three years in the incubator, after three years, you should leave these premises and secure an area outside the incubator so that it can be successful on the market - where will this program go after three years? Even if it was incubated or developed in an incubator outside of Pomurje - where it will have investment facilities, where it will have relief for workers. This is an extremely important issue that, once again, I appeal to resolve in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This measure, which is envisaged within this law, which deals with investment facilitations, is certainly one of the better measures, proposals. It is simply necessary to admit and I think this is very, very good. My assessment is that it would be good even to extend this period from 5 to 10 years, but I absolutely agree with my colleague Webro that this is not a systematic solution to similar problems in other regions. But look, we have decided whether you are in favour of a new concept of solving such problems, which unfortunately is not yet systematic at this time, I hope that in the future it will be systematic, in this moment this is a partial solution to the acute case that has occurred due to the closure of the Mura and consequently the bad news that is now between us all. However, I agree that it would be good for such cases to be resolved systematically. My assessment is that this case and everyone else, including the case in Kočev, would be much better and more elegant if we had already established regions if we had already established a second level of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 6 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then we turn to the debate on Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mr. Tessel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u217	Nicely greeted! Article 8 establishes an inter-enterprise education centre for the Pomurski region, which is to be financed from both national and cohesion funds of around two million euros. We believe that as far as education is concerned, the development agency can also coordinate this work, while educational institutions, together with stakeholders, can take over this content because they are already working in this area and there will be no duplication. If we look at a nearby environment, we see that we have human universities, schools, high school, higher education. I don't think there's any higher education or University of Pomurje. If they lacked work, they would also be able to set up this inter-enterprise educational centre so that they would not have their own personal infrastructure, their people for education, because these people already exist and work in this area. They are already being educated through employment and training, retraining and retraining. Of course, they respond to calls and receive these additional funds, and this already exists. If we especially physically set up a new inter-enterprise education centre with new staff, we can only strengthen these existing institutions and the content and purpose will be achieved. Therefore, we believe that Article 8 is unnecessary and can be deleted from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr. Campus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u219	Dear Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present my view of this amendment, which I almost hope to call absurd. From the Pomur region, I estimate that this amendment is absurd. I'll give you a brief explanation. A few years ago, all companies, Arcont, Muri, Mongrad, Elgrad, were called development centers. Everyone had, so this larger company, I'm not talking about smaller companies, they had development centers that somehow tried to develop products, they introduced new products, they updated them, and they also invented new ideas and products. These companies don't exist anymore. And if we did not want to move forward in Pomour, especially in the sense that we want jobs with added value, then I would allow this article to be deleted. However, we want to make this set of legislation just so that quality jobs will also be in Pomour and that those people who are educated who are currently, as a colleague said, are employed elsewhere in Slovenia. And so we could come back to these development centres, which, on the basis of this establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, are re-established so that we can employ those educated people who are at home who are now being educated. And look, the establishment of an inter-enterprise educational centre, which in some ways has a financial compensation of around EUR 2 million, is established by an inter-enterprise educational centre that carries out educational, research activities, activities supporting the technological development of products, their control and quality assurance. It is a matter of linking the educational centre with the economy. What is needed in Slovenia today is everywhere. This is an urgent need in Slovenia today. So new technology in businesses, new technology in terms of updating, and new products that bring additional value, higher added value. That's what we want. I would agree with that if we no longer had excellent practice in this area in Slovenia. We already have some of these centers, it works in Velenje and some other places, and it works great. In a regional sense, we should have such centres everywhere. This would create more concrete jobs, including new companies, as well as assistance to those, as I said earlier, who have their ideas but have no financial and other abilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we would not have allowed Article 8 to be deleted, as proposed by colleagues from the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you. I am opening an application to discuss the same Article, Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Pecan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u221	I'd like to join my colleague Campus very briefly. That's exactly what he's holding. Such inter-enterprise education and development centres are not equal to the regional development agency. Regional development agencies have emerged in strange and very varied ways and there is a great question if this development agency in Prekmurje is what is supposed to be an inter-enterprise development education centre that will connect not only those companies and entrepreneurs who are already in Prekmur and Pomur, but also all those who want to go there. And again, such a centre can also be an important and quality magnet for all those people who are Prekmurje and Pomurje because of the marked depressing atmosphere that none of the governments in the past, and especially the government from the previous mandate, has made any improvements. The depressing atmosphere also arose because fantasy projects were prepared for Pomurje, which would not help Pomurje with a single step.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm delighted with Mr. Webber's thinking. Apparently, even in the opposition, certain Members coming from less developed regions felt a certain danger of a great difference between the future development of the Pomur region and other parts of Slovenia. So far, we have had nine regional development centres where regional development agencies have been set up with the task of developing these regional development centres and other tasks. In these regional development centres, business incubators, technology parks, logistics centres and some universities for human resources education are to be organised. It is true, however, that these regional development centres have only experienced a little bit, and sometimes very well, which is probably a reflection of the efforts of certain regions as well as of the economic response in these regions. I therefore believe that the establishment of an inter-enterprise educational centre in Prekmurje would be a duplication of institutions. Perhaps the current does not work well, and it would probably be necessary to speed up the functioning of this institution. I would also like to point out that no establishment of an inter-enterprise educational centre or any such centre will succeed if the economy does not reflect, by building transport, municipal infrastructure and probably equipping any business zones or logistics centres. If the economy doesn't respond to this, it's probably not going to happen. I am afraid that we will have a built-in infrastructure that has been invested in a lot of money, but there will be no new jobs for these workers who will now lose their jobs at the burden of the country. That's why I don't think this move is too wise. However, if we want to undermine all efforts throughout the country and all other regional development agencies with this case, I think you are on the right track. I am afraid that the analysis of the success of these regional development centres should indeed be carried out and that these analyses should also take into account the changed economic situation in view of the crisis. We have also stressed on the committees that the Government will do so, but this year nothing has been done in this direction. It is probably a matter of trying something new, in the hope of a policy to deliver certain results, but we, who have so far been involved in the development of these economic centres, are not convinced. I think that a failed attempt and these 2 million euros from the Cohesion Fund are likely to be difficult to draw, given the established criteria so far, that something new will have to be invented. However, it will probably be difficult to report to Europe on the useful use of these funds, so I support this amendment to Article 8 so that this inter-enterprise education centre is not organised in Prekmurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you. You weren't appointed, Mr. Kampush. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 8, I think that it is mainly one pierre move, perhaps also an ambition to arrange for a person, after three years, the status and service of this inter-enterprise educational centre, because some status is tied to three years and then after three years, the person will have to sit there for three years. And what's more beautiful than sitting on some new institution that's supposed to, forgive the expression, sell fog. If there is a serious purpose in this area, then please come with the law on the University of Pomurje. We have three in Ljubljana, Maribor and the University of Primorska. The latter was set up with the ambition of individual Members in the previous call of the National Assembly and strengthened in the previous term. She's anchored well, and she's doing it well. which was previously addressed, the integration of the educational process with the economy, within the framework of the University of Primorsk, which is an appropriate institute that supports and supports these matters. And if we were to follow such a dictatorship in this Article, we would be happy to support it. And believe me, the University of Primorsk, when it was founded in 2003, had virtually no resources in that first law. It was just the good will, the law and the help of local communities. Only later did the funds come. In this case, we read that even EUR 2 million could be obtained. This is nice money, and if this money went for a concrete project, which would also have concrete effects, in that area even more important, then of course we would gladly support it. So in the air, hard. The results of the call for excellence centres, which Mr Golobič has published and where all the money, 30 million euros, has remained in Ljubljana, are also saying that it is not a serious intention in this area to help the extreme north-east of Slovenia. And we read on our "mails" complaints from all over Slovenia, mainly from the northeast end, that this is wrong. And it really isn't right. I doubt that in other parts of Slovenia they do not have experts who would be adequately able to do something. I doubt it. I doubt that all knowledge, all the science of this world and this Slovenia is concentrated only with Mr Jankovic. I think that the whole of Slovenia has a wide range of potentials and is unworthy, especially at this time, that the EUR 30 million of Mr Golobic's or the ministry that runs it has remained here, not where those funds could have direct and rapid effects. And if it were a serious purpose in the case of Article 8, we would read here "the establishment of the University of Pomurje". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you. Dr. Horvath, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u227	The messenger is encouraging me to make some comments. The former government has drawn up a resolution on national development projects, which have been discussed here today. Some of them also sit in this Chamber today, my former colleagues, and now colleagues. The problem that this resolution was not implemented at the time, as it should be, is not the problem of this government, but of those governments at the time. This government is now actually also trying to make and implement some projects that are feasible on this basis. Mr Lah said that it is necessary to prepare for these economic centres of analysis and similar studies, expertise, and I do not know what kind of contracts to make with whom to prepare and develop these economic centres. Let me say that this is actually a new approach, one that will then be transferred to the whole of Slovenia. I am sure that not only has the Government appointed the Secretary of State to this place, but our ambitions are greater. Our ambitions are not only ambitions in Pomurje, but in Slovenia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you. Members, I'd like you to calm down a bit. When someone speaks, there's only one word. Do you have a procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Then wait till you get the word. Mr Juri will speak first, and then I will reopen the application for debate. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this amendment, it should also be noted in the introduction that there are no options such as the success of the Pomurje development strategy, this government and this coalition. Even when we are talking about Article 8, it is not a bluff, it is a concrete proposal from an inter-enterprise educational centre, which far from being a condition for a new, fourth, post-graduate university. Of course, those who talk about allowing such a university to be established within this law are not serious and are aware of it. The realization of university ambitions in our regions is a very complex matter and the conditions required are clear. For example, the University of Primorsk has been founded on years and years of functioning higher education institutions, colleges that have merged and have led with a very clear project to the planning of this university to a successful story. Today, this university is one of the most important factors in the development of knowledge and general development in the Slovenian-Iristian and wider coastal region. When it comes to the inter-enterprise education centre, we are talking about a concrete opportunity and a response that may occur for the first time in Slovenia. From this point of view, the urban story is an outstanding challenge for the government and brings us closer to some good practices and good experiences elsewhere in Europe. I have lived and worked alone for four years in Spain, and I well know the case of one of the formerly poor regions precisely because of the collapse of the heavy industry, which is Basque, which is to some extent comparable to Slovenia so geographically, by mentality and by approach to economic patterns of behaviour. There was a similar challenge in Basque country following the collapse of heavy metallurgy, after the end of francism and clearly in order to reclassify and restructure the economy. They chose Wels' model, but they went to England, and they actually led to the extremely rapid development of smaller entrepreneurship, the integration of these companies, and everything was based on pilot centres, knowledge centres, inter-enterprise education. Today we have an extremely pervasive experience of the cooperative, the Mondragon Business Association, which is world-renowned and all economists and all structural reform planners have repeatedly referred to this successful model, which has raised Baski to an extremely high level of entrepreneurial and general economic development. The story of Pomur can also become something like this for Slovenia if we rationally exploit all the potentials offered by the crisis. This may for the first time be a concrete challenge that relates to those statements that the crisis can also offer some opportunities. This is an opportunity, and this law that we have on the table today, with this article, is such an opportunity. I therefore object to the SDS amendment's proposal, as it would deprive the Pomur region of an interesting opportunity. We would not approach Mr Montenegro's utopia on the immediate establishment of the Pomeranian region. It was a demagogic flossule. The long-term objective is to transfer education, knowledge, high and quality technologies to all regions of Slovenia. The aim is to ensure that Slovenia does not have more poor and underfed regions by the end of this period. And it is this model, this pilot model that we can now establish in Pomura if it succeeds, and it is not only successful that it will prevail in this House that there is a need to step up and support these efforts so that we can find out that we can also benefit from the crisis some potential that would otherwise remain undetected. In Prekmurje, I believe, and I am confident that these centres will employ and attract mainly the post-moral population, the pomurian experts and will offer the Pomurs with a way out, which would only be missed by passive support for the survival of this or that non-economic entity. This amendment is not necessary. I'd even be harmful. The law or Article 8 should be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you. You want a replica, Mr. Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u231	Mr Juri said that in the debate on this article, when I spoke about the University of Pomur, I was wasting my demagogy. I must tell Mr Yuri that, as far as demagogies are concerned, he is such a great teacher that I will not reach him in ten terms. As for the University of Pomour, I have said that instead of what is said here in Article 8, I propose that this text should read: "funding the establishment of the University of Pomure". And I also said a model by which, Mr Juri, you probably know that, the University of Primorska was established in 2003 and supported further financially in the previous mandate. If you thought like you think now, then this university in Primorsk wouldn't be. In Pomure, the university is an emergency. Now individual local communities are being tortured by individual education programmes without the support of the State. Moreover, Mr Golobič's invitation to the centres of excellence has located all funds in Ljubljana. Not a single euro outside Ljubljana, of course not in northeastern Slovenia or in Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you. Since I can still see the hands of the debate, I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Kampush, you've reached out. You used to raise your hand. Mr. Campus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister! Dear Vice President, I protest. You do not have the same criteria for replicas and I politely ask you to try to correct your leadership of the National Assembly. However, I wanted, of course, to clarify the concepts concerning the development agencies and also the development agencies of Mura. Some colleagues, of course, do not know the subject. I was the President of the Regional Council of the Pomur Region, and I know what the task is and what the tasks of the Mura Development Agency are. I must tell you that I respect this institution. The Mura Regional Development Agency does not have and does not carry out any educational tasks. I don't know, we're probably back in Pomour, the last one we don't have in the development agency, probably somewhere else. Looks like you got somewhere else. One more thing about Article 8. In the event of an accidental deletion of Article 8, then the law on development support to the Pomur region is not what it should be and has no added value. It has no added value in order to bring about a modern, long-term restructuring of the gloomy economy and agriculture with knowledge and new programmes, with new technological achievements and captures. This is the essence of this Article 8 and, of course, respected colleagues and colleagues, I propose that this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u235	Dear Mr. Vice President! I will, of course, make it very clear in the introduction that I will support this proposal. At the same time, I must make it very clear that the amendment prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party for Article 8 will also be supported. When we are talking about the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, I think that the key reason for setting up this centre is that, of course, the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, is to try to solve the problems of his human resources story, and so on, which must now be to some point, because they are his supporters, to provide them with certain positions. I think that right here in this law they have found one quality solution to satisfy the wishes of some individuals. So also those who are eager to support Mr Borut Pahor's policy. With regard to the establishment of this centre, I think it is crucial here that here a lot of things can get blurred, through this educational centre it will be possible to make a lot of money for such and different studies and so on and so forth. I think it's wrong. I think the intent of this marriage should be completely different. The aim of this law should be, in my opinion, to increase the employment opportunities of workers in Pomurje and, however, of higher value added jobs. This should be the intention of this marriage. And the key problem in Pomure is extremely high unemployment. If this law were aimed at this, I would also personally consider this to be meaningful. I am sure that this law will simply not achieve what the needs, wishes and interests of the Pomurec and Pomurje are. Indeed, this law seems to be relatively attractive, but I think the objectives of the government representatives here are almost certain that they will not be achieved. It is very unlikely that those who need it will be able to access these funds and assistance. Therefore, it seems to me that it is still important that this Article 8 be deleted from this Act, because this is simply not necessary. We have already established certain institutions that can solve this situation. It would be more useful to divide these additional EUR 2 million earmarked for this centre among entrepreneurs, craftsmen, among those who still need more start-up money or money to function normally. And that's what's important. People have to have jobs, people have to have conditions to be able to work, and the country is the one who has to make it possible. However, once again I claim that, through this law and in this way, especially when I see this fog, I hope to say, this fog is not as clear a goal as I should have said before, what I think should be the intention of this law. Otherwise, I say once again that I am very happy, and I must say that every law, even if only in a fraction, is such that the added value will be to some environment, I personally support. And, thank God for that, too, so I said in the beginning that I would support this marriage because the Pomurs need help. That's a fact. However, I think the Government's approach to addressing this issue, which is said to be this economic and financial and social crisis, is already a flawed approach in the introduction. Tomorrow will happen to us the region of Koroška, tomorrow will happen to us Posavska, in a month will happen to us Styria. I think we should address this problem systematically for the whole country. At this point, it is also very clear that the shortcomings of local self-government, which we talked about almost three quarters of the previous mandate, have been demonstrated when we talked about the need to establish regionalisation. If regionalisation were now in place, this matter would now be in the hands of the region. Such and different laws for individual regions would not have to be adopted. However, I am not saying that a country with its instruments, with all that it has at its disposal, that it comes along and helps, is also its primary task. I think that the law in some part, it has a desire, expresses a desire through which it would be possible to help Pomura, but once again I say that those goals of the current government and government representatives will not be achieved. That's what I'm sure of. But it's true, if one piece of this thing is real, there's something. And once again, the approach to solving this issue in this country is wrong because it is partial, it is not comprehensive. I think that this situation in Slovenia needs to be resolved systematically. That's not system law. This could be significantly easier to solve if we had regions. And what Mr President of the Government has already mentioned many times in the previous term, but I think that from these regions, like those last statements, they will have three regions, once seven, and so on, that these are some words that I am sure have no weight that could lead the area of local self-government any step further. I think it will take some time to wait for regionalisation to take place in this situation in such a way that the key, political and other interests in this country will be satisfied. Certainly not with three regions, not with seven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I can see the hands. I am opening the application for debate on Article 8 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it is right that the debate goes to the end and that, despite all the more positive content, more are those who will happily support the marriage as a first step. I'm glad the Prime Minister is with us, too, and Mr. Minister. This proves that, of course, this government with Pomour and this law is serious. There is never a solution in life that predicts everything and knows everything. Such a law must be positive, and we must bring it to life as soon as possible, which means that only the adoption of the law does not solve the problem. The specific sub-legal acts are those that will make a move on the ground. I think it's about time we moved from words to actions. We all confirm this marriage together, and then life will lead us forward. And if we show some style in the National Assembly, respect, but not charity, this moment of Pomurje deserves more than anything, and that is why, of course, I will gladly support this marriage. And to all those who want to participate in this, I also want a happy hand to go forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Gondz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I have not spoken to you on previous matters, but I am now speaking mainly because we did not discuss this proposal on the home committee yesterday. This is a matter that is undoubtedly very important in substance, but I consider that, in the proposed form, it is not appropriate to delete it. Unfortunately, we are not talking now about the establishment of the University of Pomurje, which of course all Pomurje would be pleased to support. Perhaps some long-term vision is also needed in this direction, but now this law is in hand, dealing with very acute and current issues in our region. At this point in time, I think the inter-enterprise education centre in Pomur is clearly needed. Although I may also have some concerns previously raised by colleagues on my left, I believe that this amendment is a bit of an ad hoc nature today and I therefore support the original text of Article 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to Article 8, this is about the establishment of an inter-enterprise educational centre - because I will only touch this amendment - I would say the following. It is true that we discussed this at midnight or later last night, Mr Laszlo, you may have heard about it and that is why the representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport was also present. Mr Zgonc also gave a justification for this article. I remember that well. Mr Zgonc has given a good argument and I agree that this is just an article that is not supposed to be disputed. We could also, Mr Černač, say a lot about the education system in the Pomurska region, about the problem of the low education structure in the Pomurska region, about the subordination, when the higher education programmes are being allocated, just looking at the information that out of the 36 licensed higher education programmes in the Pomurska region, only one single male programme is eligible. And this year, we're "high," if I say so, at two roles. This is for the higher education programme "physiotherapy" and "health care" with various excuses from Minister Golobic. But let's leave it at that. Let's go to this article. Why is this article unquestionably welcome in this marriage? In fact, there is only one sentence: "The Pomurska Region Inter-enterprise Education Centre is co-financed from the national and cohesion funds of the state budget at an indicative rate of two million euros. The value and annual funding dynamic of the project shall be determined by the project adopted following its direct validation procedure in accordance with the EU State Aid and Cohesion Policy rules." What is essential is: 'The Ministry of Education and Sport is responsible for the implementation of the project as an intermediate body', and more importantly, 'the funds are provided on its budget lines'. Why would we even discuss this and not the MPs? I hope that consensus will be reached here with this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr. Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, again. Once again, I find that the Government's intention in bringing this law into line was good. But I am always more doubtful about this concept, and also about this article and the amendment. I will support the amendment, because the establishment of an inter-enterprise educational centre in the way it is set up here will not bring any added value. Previously, some of you have also talked about economic centres and how they were not realized. That is precisely why caution should be exercised in establishing such a concept. The only economic centre that took a step forward was the Imprime project in Goriška, where the economic centre was built from those who were users of this story, not vice versa, through law and through regulation and placement from the level of the Ministry of Regulators. The only economic operators in Primorska have joined together and have successfully taken the first step in the economic centre. And the same principle should apply to this law. If we're raping with some center, one way or another, it won't work. As far as I know, there has not been much consultation in the area of the educational centre with the users of this planned centre. The competence of education, in the case of an inter-enterprise educational centre, would also be expected by a person, including by the economy. But like I said, I don't support it. How things can be produced in such regulated matters, and perhaps also as an illustration through centres of excellence, where we have also committed 30 million euros. As has been said, all centres of excellence remain within the centre, perhaps so the centres, it is said, were all defined and selected in the centre, in Ljubljana, which is interesting in some way. Let's see: Center of Excellence for Integrated Approaches in Chemistry and Protein Biology, Jenko, one employee, Medis, unpredicted wholesale trade, an example of a centre of excellence. Second example of centres of excellence: Polymer materials and technologies, Antea, Managing Director of Matthew Dermastja, along with Teo Petrin and Matthew Meselj. Matthew Meselj is one of the initiators of the project of centres of excellence. Center of Excellence for Research of Biotechnology in Pharmacy and Physics of Substances, holder of concrete company dealing with excavations, transport of concrete, production of concrete gallantry and management of quarry. And a company called Jeklotechna, which deals in retail and wholesale. Interesting centres of excellence, everyone in Ljubljana, nowhere near Pomurje, nowhere in particular Soča, nowhere near Primorska, anywhere else in this country. I therefore reiterate this amendment that I do not support the placement of an educational centre that has no specific definition and has not been produced from the Pomeranian region itself, so that I will withdraw this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Well, what was said earlier is also one of the reasons why it cannot be supported. It is an artificial, forced pianist placement of an institution in a story, from which there will be no other benefit than the resources for some employees who will find a job ahead, and for some studies written by such and other experts who are somehow related to ministers. The Pomurje Development Institute is established and functioning and should also be supported through this law. The institute for geothermia and alternative resources is being established in the notes and must also be supported through this law. In Pomurje, as has been said, only one of the 36 licensed higher education programmes operates, one higher education programme. It is true that within the economic centres the national importance contained in the resolution, and one of which you also place in this law on Pomurje, is defined as a higher education centre. However, if we have this law on the table today and if we have an article here, this ambition could be, in particular, supported by concrete means by these educational centres. For this reason, I said, ambition should be the establishment or financing of the establishment of the University of Pomure. And then we'd believe you. In view of the situation in Pomour, given that some institutions are already operating or are in the traps and in the establishment, it is said that they should only be supported, such a move would be the logical consistency of what is happening, but not that what has already been mentioned is that they cannot obtain the individual programmes that normally belong to this area and that, see, yesterday, we had the capital, they are financed even by the municipalities themselves. And here's an excellent development ambition and a development paradigm that could be read: instead of 2,500 lost jobs, in one day, we'll create 1,000 student entry places [[in three years]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u246	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Dr. Horvat on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u247	I'd just like to thank the MP that he's already working for me in three years. Again, the resolution on regional projects or national projects contained 9 economic views. You said yourself, one has been successfully implemented. This government wants to focus its work on this area, focus on learning something from all of us because we have learned that it was not possible to do so in the past or in the last nine years. That is why we have a different approach. The Inter-enterprise Centre is also one of the elements that have already been placed inside the economic centres under the previous government. We didn't make up a lot of new ideas here, because the simple concepts that were set up at the time were good concepts. We believed in those concepts back then, but unfortunately they weren't carried out that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you. You weren't appointed, but if you want to discuss it. Anyone who wants to discuss it should sign up. You can sign up if you want, or if you don't have any more time, you've already spent it. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you. He didn't appoint me, but the Member said, he mentioned the subject I was talking about. I'm not going to be too hard, but to some extent I agree with you, but it is this concept that first it is necessary to fold the paperwork and somehow approach these economic centres institutionally, which has led to what we are both talking about. And the only case where the economy first came together, and those who are users of these economic centres, which consisted of the projects that went into the candidacy, is success. And this is the Inprime project. All the other projects were stacked up like a big soap bubble, which, when you have to go into some operational program, was simply lost because there were no users or partners to do this project in the end. I hope we both agree on that. That is why I say that this concept is wrong in Article 8, because we are raping a space with an institution that can ultimately have no value, should grow out of that space and produce an appropriate content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Here the new Secretary of State, the Sanator of Pomurja, has mentioned the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023, adopted by the previous Government. In this resolution, there are some centres and many projects that are linked to individual centres where things are growing. I note that, after a year of working for this government, nothing has actually happened with this resolution. It did not propose any amendments, no additions, but then some partial solutions are adopted, which lead to a difference as recorded in this national strategic act. I don't think it can be very proud of the government or the coalition that the fundamental strategic act, which is defined as a long-term act, will last 13 years if you don't change it in the meantime, that it doesn't make sense to discuss it in this way. If anything in this adopted act, in which you yourself have been very actively involved, does not seem good, does not seem well-defined enough, is not operational enough, is not done properly enough, then you would probably expect the Government of which you now belong to propose this and in some normal, procedurally credible way to change it, supplement it or otherwise impose it. I'm afraid I don't. There are quite a few criticisms about these fundamental developmental cores, which are being worked on, but there is no idea of suggesting anything better for such development centres, which projects would be better for such a development project, or 9, maybe 10 or enough. It's none of this, just some permanent criticism about this act, which must have put a lot of effort into it. A lot of effort, a lot of communication with local communities, a lot of communication with local development, economic and other actors. Definitely. And that's why this act has that status and that name. This is a fundamental strategic direction that has emerged in any of these areas, together with ideas from the local or regional environment. And I actually think it's kind of beneath the level that such acts, in which it's so invested, are spoken of in such a demeaning way. At the same time, nothing has happened over a period of one year and it has proposed absolutely nothing to change anything about this in order to open any public debate to test again in local and regional environments, in the regional centres of solutions enshrined in this act. But that's what someone says, and that's nothing. It's a lot. A lot more than anyone thinks. If someone thinks otherwise and has the right majority for this, and the Government is certainly coherent enough or cohesive in this case, he can also arrange these matters differently, write them down and otherwise define and also set a different tactic or dynamic plan for the implementation of these projects. It's just a normal expectation. In the National Assembly, we would love to see such an act brought before us, and we would certainly see it coming. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] both the opposition and the coalition Members also held the necessary debate. [[...]] Finally, the individual solutions to the content contained in this resolution on national programmes until 2023 are certainly also included in the plans for development programmes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At least development, if not the other. It would also be necessary to "count" probably judgments and debate on these matters, especially those representing the Government, not the opposition Members, but those representing the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u253	I'll tell you very quickly. We have an inter-enterprise education centre in the amendment. The resolution, I agree, is one of the better projects of the previous government, but at the end of the introduction of the resolution it says: the resolution is just beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I do not see any more applicants for the debate on Article 8 and the amendment, so I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 26th B-point of the agenda, this is on the proposal of a candidate for a minister without a resource, responsible for local self-government and regional development. On 15 October 2009, the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint Mr Henrik Gjerkš as Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u255	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I see that here the friendly officials of the National Assembly have already brought a table for which Dr. Henrik Gjerkesh is to sign a declaration of duty as Minister, and I ask you to vote in such a way that the coworkers have not done so in vain. I have reasons for that. On 15 October, I proposed to the National Assembly, Dr. Henri Gjerkš, because he has extensive experience in the field of scientific research in the domestic and national environment, long experience in the management of groups of different sizes, in projects and educational activities. He is a doctor of technical sciences, a professor at the University of Nova Gorica, his educational references and management references convince me that he is a good candidate for a minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. I decided for him quickly, but after careful consideration, because I think we need a minister in this position. Before I tell you why, let me say maybe one or two more references that seem important to me. He is a member of the Pomur Academy of Science Union, is involved in advice on development regional projects and in cooperation with industry, regional communities and government services he participates and leads domestic and international energy and environmental oriented projects and project groups. The proposed candidate is a two-time grant to the institution of Dr. Anton Trstenjak for formal and informal cooperation and assistance in development projects in the Pomur region. It can also show the successful results of the transfer of knowledge in the field of regional development of Slovenia to young people. The minister won't have an easy job. In the end, so - called ministers of mags have also come to their senses because of their very difficult work. On this occasion as Prime Minister of the Government, I thank her for her great commitment, for her great sacrifice, and for the fact that she has also been able to endure situations that are not usually an honor to politicians, and they are an integral part of our work. Experts find them more difficult to understand, and they may at some point give up on their plans and visions. She did her best and left a good legacy to be taken over by the new minister, if you so choose. First of all, after two years, we have finally come from a country that has been minus in the European budget to a positive state. Otherwise, it is not a big surplus, but it is the fact that we in the Government have decided that the Minister for Regional Development, according to the new Minister, will take over all policies of drawing on European funds in order to repay it. This task will also be taken over by the new minister. In addition to his State Secretary, who will also regulate relations with local communities or mayors who will take care of assistance in regional policy, in particular in drawing on European funds, I decided to work with two State Secretaries from my office, Dr. Andre Horvato and Dr. Rad Genori. Whoever knows, knows, in particular, Dr. Rada Genoria, practically all the years since independence, from the moment we actually got the pre-accession funds, has been working very well on these projects and can be a great consultant to the new minister. All with the plan, all with the desire of this government to use the 4 billion euro remaining to be successful by 2013 and 2015. Which means 5.2 billion, I think that for our budget, which, of course, is hungry for fresh money and the freshest and most cheap money is the European money that needs to be drawn. Even in my previous function, I could see that Slovenia has a very complicated system of drawing European funds, that we are prisoners of this system, but it is accredited. And when the new minister took over her duties, she immediately warned me that we are facing a dilemma: Whether to simplify the institutional system of European funds drawback, lose accreditation, and wait some time to get a new accreditation, get a new system and thus miss a certain deadline, unforeseeable debt, or stay with this system that is not good, and with all our strengths and new receptions we try to draw as successfully as possible. We've decided another way. I have asked both co-workers, Dr. Horvath and Dr. Genoria that when, if, today, I hope, the new minister will receive your mandate, we will again try to discuss this dilemma in the coming week. And if we are to believe that the dilemma is legitimate, I would like to complete this discussion with you in the National Assembly. If we assess that the institutional intervention in the mechanism for drawing on European funds is a condition for us to exhaust these four billion by 2015. We'll let you know if we're going to judge that that's not necessary. Otherwise, we will come here with a proposal, with a package of necessary institutional changes, and we will try to discuss through the competent committees and then make sure that we receive accreditation for such a system through the Commission as soon as possible. Otherwise, we'll stay with this system, it's not the best, but with hard work, it allows us to get the money if we just do our best. Another time. The task of the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development will be to submit to this High House the Act on the Establishment of the Provinces as soon as possible. Last time you heard my personal opinion, which was based on my cooperation with the Council of Experts, which I have in this area where opinions are not entirely uniform. No one here will be surprised that the professional public has very different opinions on the establishment of the provinces. In fact, we had three options ahead of us to decide whether to go to one more classical principle of landscapes than intermediate levels between the municipality and the country, 6 or 8 provinces or 14, which seemed to be a consensus in the previous term, or if we turned the matter a little bit upside down, to propose the concept of three development regions where the concept would be slightly different, the role and the task of these developmental regions was slightly different from that we had before when we negotiated in the previous mandate on the provinces. I would not go any further into the exploitation of expectations, I would wait for the professional world to finish its work now, that the government is drafting a bill to go before the parliamentary groups, for it needs a two-thirds majority, it is perfectly clear to us that if there is no approximate agreement that this is not a smart decision, it makes no sense to push forward with it, we need to find out what an alternative is. If the Government finds that there is a two-thirds alternative to a solution, we will draw up such a law, and I would like to say, as Prime Minister of the Government, that after all these discussions, I have not been the most active in them, personally I think we must have strong, large regions, which are human resources, financial, capital and, as far as possible, comparable in the European scale. And in the end. The new Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development must be a good interlocutor of mayors, municipal and municipal councils. It must have a sense of the problems arising from the law on the financing of municipalities and other problems of fiscal policy when it comes to relations between the State and the municipalities. I have had a good conversation with Dr Gjerkesh, and I have found that listening to these questions understands his task, so I propose to the National Assembly to elect him, appoint him as Minister for this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President, for further explanation of the proposal. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. We received the board's opinion on the bench. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr. Willy Trofenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Environment and Space! On 15 October, the President of the Government sent a proposal to the President of the National Assembly to appoint Dr. Henrik Gjerkš as Minister of State without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he presented himself yesterday to the members and members of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and answered their questions. In the opening presentation, the candidate for a minister presented his current career, which included, in addition to teaching and scientific work, sustainable regional development projects, in particular in the field of renewable energy. The candidate presented his views and policy orientations, which fall within the competence of the Government's Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service, highlighting as a priority the successful use of European funds, the establishment of contacts with mayors and mayors and the preparation of proposals for provincial legislation. In the field of local self-government he drew attention to the great differences in regional development in Slovenia, which he himself felt as it comes from the Pomurska region. He drew particular attention to the fragmentation of Slovenia into two hundred ten municipalities and felt that further fragmentation of municipalities was not rational. From this point of view, they should re-examine the legal conditions for the establishment of municipalities, pay more attention to the creation of joint municipal administrations as a basis for their later maintenance, which would allow for more rational and quality performance of tasks, as well as project integration into an effective form of work. On the issue of the financing of local communities, the candidate warned that the principle of solidarity should also be respected. In doing so, he highlighted the need to regulate the financing of urban municipalities or municipalities, which in certain areas create services for other municipalities and, at the same time, bear all the financial burdens, the key to finding those solutions, in particular the continuation of an in-depth dialogue between different departments and also between local communities, mayors, community associations and the country. The proposed candidate also highlighted the proposal for a law on development support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015, which the Government had recently tabled in the legislative procedure and was today under consideration as one of its priorities. It estimates that the exceptional economic situation, particularly the bankruptcy of Pomurka and Mura, requires specific measures and coordinated action by all government policies. He considered that the region could be relaunched with short-term tax and long-term programming measures and new jobs for the people. At the same time, of course, it is necessary to listen to other regions in similar difficulties. He stressed that he would deal equally with problems in all municipalities and regions. In this regard, it will also advocate the speedy adoption of provincial legislation which, by decentralising the functions of the State or its powers, will improve development opportunities for all areas of the country. The candidate agreed that the profession must first justify the grounds for the formation of the provinces, stressing that it recommended that the profession should have a small number of major provinces, ranging from three to a maximum of eight. The transfer of powers from the country to the provinces is expected to proceed gradually, with the current organisation of public services with administrative units not being deliberately altered. Major provinces, according to his assessment, are also a threat to regional centralism and it will therefore be necessary to take sub-regional level into account when designing solutions. There is also a broad public debate on the professional basis of regionalisation, and a broader socio-political consensus will also need to be provided for the adoption of relevant legislation. One of the key tasks is to successfully draw on European funds. It advocated further simplification of the drawing-out procedures. It is also intended to improve programmes for the accessibility of European funds. He stressed that the existing system in the field of fund-raising was relatively well-functioning, but needed some improvements, particularly in order to simplify the procedure. The members of the committee were not particularly deplorable in asking questions to the candidate and in assessing the situation, but the candidate was able to respond to most of the questions raised on a case-by-case basis. The Committee took note of its views, views and opinions [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] more specific tasks for action. [[...]] The Committee took the view that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate by a large majority of the votes and proposed to the National Assembly that it should support and appoint a minister to take up the tasks in a given situation or in difficult areas as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u259	Good afternoon! Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Minister, Honourable colleague, colleague! We unanimously supported Mrs Mag's candidacy in the Slovenian People's Party a year ago. Golden Plosteiner as a candidate for the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as we have recognized from her performances that this is a person who is a good acquaintance of the issue she will be dealing with, and we have also learned that she wants to continue in her work the good work done by her predecessor, Dr. Ivan Žagar. After all, the lady was also his co-worker at the Ministry, and before that also the head of the development agency in Kozyanska, is said to be a man from the field, with practice. In her work in the last year, we have noticed that the work is not going as we expected. It bothered us that there was not a whole range of calls that we thought would be made this year. We have also seen that, above all, the Minister for Development is talking about a new organisation in the field of fund-raising, that many people are primarily involved in the search for mistakes in the past and less in the search for a vision in the future. Negatively, we were surprised by her resignation. We respect and respect her decision if the real health situation is the one that makes this work impossible. However, we must admit that we were also surprised at the candidate's candidacy for a new minister. We shared this surprise with many Slovenians, Slovenians, after all also with members of the party's parliamentary group, from which the candidate is also proposed as minister. On the Committee on Local Self-Government yesterday, first early in the morning, and later in the late night, we listened attentively to the presentation of the distinguished candidate and also asked him a number of questions, which were then in the night work, after ten hours of interruption, also carefully prepared and also answered. At the conclusion of the Slovenian People's Party, when we listened to explanations and answers, we were given the feeling that unfortunately we do not get a person who would have a lot of knowledge in this area, which is perfectly normal, given that he has dealt with very responsible tasks in a completely different area in life so far. Unfortunately, we have also found that this is not a basic obstacle, but that it has already been very clear and clear in the presentation that it will be a very faithful operator of the coalition policy in the field of local self-government and regional development. This is due mainly to the fact that we have received answers, such as that small municipalities are an obstacle to the development of Slovenia, that we have in the area of the establishment of the provinces from 3 to 8, the number that we have in mind and also has the candidate, because it has already taken the prime minister's position on the number of provinces already presented today. The claim he has made twice that next year, with local elections, there will also be regional council elections, and in some ways indicates that he is also very unrealistic in expectations, harmonisation and procedural matters, as far as the landscape is concerned. We have not even recognized the concept, in addition to the concept that was discussed here today, how a respected candidate will face regional needs, the development distortions across Slovenia, and the need to approach a more comprehensive approach than has been taken so far. Unfortunately, we also did not get clear answers to these questions as to how to proceed. Thus, we have come to the conclusion that it is only three of the most difficult actions that the Minister will face, including the work that he will need and also have a great deal of political support and political power, to carry out such demanding projects as the introduction of provinces, such as European funding, such as the amendment of the Law on Community Financing. I think that for this project, on which the development of Slovenia depends to a large extent in the coming years, we would need a candidate who would have greater power in this area and who would be more able to achieve what Slovenian and Slovenians expect to happen in the area of European funds and regional development in Slovenia. Because of all this and because we have assessed at the end that the appointment of this candidate will enable, above all, the very good implementation of the centralist policy of the Government, which we have seen in the last year, unfortunately, we will not support today's respected candidate. However, if he receives support, we want him to deny us what we have just said and that he will be very successful in his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Prime Minister Borut Pahor's proposal for the appointment of Henri Gjerkš as Minister of Local Self-Government is viewed by the Slovenian National Party as a politically forced decision, as DeSUS insists on its quota. This is unacceptable because it does not speak professionally, but it speaks political bargaining. We add that although it is difficult to judge the proposal in the Slovenian National Party, we do not really know the candidate. It is sad that such important content as the Ministry without a licence is determined at the political level and with political quotas. The first impression on Pahor's proposal is negative, but only because Mr Gjerkesh is a politically abused person. But we can do this to Mr Gjerkesh and he can be an expert in this field. That's why we can't say yes to political recruitment, not me, not because we don't know what his actual abilities are. The fact is, in recent days we have all witnessed the problems of our fellow party, DeSUS, which insists on its political quota and therefore has itself become a problem, even though someone else would be the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. We regret, however, that Minister Zlata Plosteiner has resigned so far because she has been working in this area for ten years and has been a good minister. DeSUS also proposed it as a long-standing expert in this field. The new minister was put in a rather difficult position in some way because he had two good predecessors. Also, the minister of the former government, we must say that he mastered his work. After hearing last night at our MDT meeting, I must say that I personally agree with many of his views. If I count just a few. The differences in Slovenia's regional development are very large in Slovenia, according to him, as it comes from the Pomeranian region, the underdeveloped part of Slovenia. That the problem of faster and more equitable regional development is even greater, it also affects the fragmentation of the country into 210 municipalities. These are the issues that we agree with in our client. Mr Gjerkes believes that further fragmentation of the country is not rational and the conditions for the establishment of municipalities need to be considered. It makes sense to connect municipalities through the creation of joint municipal administrations and project cooperation. It estimates that Slovenia is still a highly centralised country and that the process of decentralisation needs to continue, and it is important that money follows tasks. Slovenia needs the provinces and will have new development opportunities with them. As he explained, he agrees with the current direction that he must first tell the profession. At the direction of the Strategic Council for 3-8 provinces, it also points out that Slovenia has a small number of major provinces. The transfer of the powers of the State to the provinces should take place gradually and the current organisation of administrative services would not make sense to change. The proposed candidate also highlighted the proposal for a law on development support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015, which the Government has recently tabled in the legislative procedure and has briefly taken over its main solutions. If this bill is adopted, and I hope that, and if the proposed candidate is appointed as Minister, the implementation of this law will certainly be among its priorities. Due to the exceptional economic situation, especially the bankruptcy of businesses in our region, Pomurka, Mura, there is a need for specific measures and a coordinated action by all government policies and actors. Finally, in summary, if I say that we have decided in the Slovenian National Party that in this case we will vote all in our conscience, it is said to be independent of any political pressure, but what will be the result. But if he does, Mr Gjerkes will be elected Minister and we wish him a very successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. Secretary, co-workers and co-workers! Today we elect the Minister of the Slovenian Government, not the Minister of the Opposition, not for the coalition, but for all of us. And whoever wants the good of this country wants the minister to be successful and to do the work in these days, which are serious, serious, quality and responsible. For the first time, each of us has entered politics, and he certainly wanted to be accompanied by happiness and support on this path, of course, which is not easy. And in the Liberal Democracy Club, we want all these good thoughts, we want a minister who takes on the responsibility. He will succeed Mrs Minister, who has experience with practice, withdraws for health reasons. To date, we thank her for her quality and sacrifice work in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We are even more pleased to say that the Minister is not going anywhere else and remains in the cabinet of the new Minister, where, together with his hand in hand, he will continue his successful work. And these are the key messages that we should take into our minds today when we press the button. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of a candidate for a minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development in a single way, as Mr Gjerkes, with his presentation and answers to questions, convinced us that the right person is an important place for this. The answers were at certain points against the expectations of some. And I'm happy and proud that he was able to say what he was thinking at that moment, what he's going to be defending, because the task of responsible politics and the minister is to do what he thinks is right, not that everyone likes it every moment. I am therefore pleased that he has made clear his position on the regionalisation of Slovenia. We agree with this, too, that Slovenia needs effective, strong landscapes, a small number, with a smaller bureaucratic apparatus and one that has a great critical mass and will be comparable to the provinces that surround us on all sides. It is also clear that the local self-government, as we now have, for this time, that the distribution to the congregations is appropriate at this time, and that further fragmentation is not supported. However, it will try to ensure that those municipalities in Slovenia are as successful as possible and as successful as possible. Following the opening presentation of his work, the Minister-Minister-Free Minister presented his views and views on the current problem of local self-government, stressing in particular that the open issue in this area can only be successfully addressed through a thorough reflection and dialogue of all political parties, both in positions and in opposition and with the participation of all government departments. The framework for tackling open problems in this area is undoubtedly a coalition treaty, which emphasises that we want to develop an active citizen society, which can, in particular, be actively involved at local level in policy and decision-making on the conditions of our lives and work. The candidate stressed the need to build on the current situation resulting from the process of developing local self-government in the last fourteen years. Of course, we have municipalities that differ in number of people, size, human potential, various material, physical, human resources, but they have all the same tasks and the same powers. In such a diversity of municipalities, it is a fundamental source of problems, both in terms of the transfer of tasks from the country and the search for the most appropriate funding system and, of course, we can be sure of that in yesterday's debate. However, it is important that the candidate has highlighted the principle of subsidiarity to which Slovenia has committed itself at the time of the adoption of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which requires the transfer of powers to the level that is closest to our citizens and citizens and, as such, is most suitable for decision-making on local matters. However, not only the transfer of tasks and competences, but also the necessary financial resources and the greatest possible financial autonomy of local communities. He also expressed the belief that existing solutions could be improved and that the financial autonomy of municipalities could be increased while respecting the principle of solidarity. The next presentation also highlighted the challenge that lies ahead in the development of local communities, as the capacity of local communities to integrate into development projects is very different. This is illustrated by the experience of both the past and the present, and especially by this moment, of course, by the lack of money, when municipalities are engaged in all kinds of debt primarily so that we can finance development projects mainly in the field of municipal infrastructure and, of course, draw on the appropriate resources from the European budget. It seems important to us that he has also highlighted dialogue between local communities and the country, and in particular the importance of both associations for a more active role of local communities in the preparation of various solutions by the Government, as well as support for the integration of both communities before the activities of the Committee of the Regions in the European Union and the Council of Europe Congress. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we would even like to see both communities working for the same citizens and citizens in order to organize themselves, because they will certainly be more effective and stronger. In particular, he highlighted the need to consider further transferring powers from countries to local communities, while stressing, once again, greater financial autonomy. His speech also stressed that regional policy could be implemented through different mechanisms, but regionalisation would facilitate the achievement of the objectives of more coherent regional development. The importance of a sub-regional level should also be highlighted, as appropriate in the existing law on coherent regional development. Finally, the candidate for a minister highlighted the importance of European development funds and the responsibility of the whole country, the Government and all of us in Parliament to draw on them effectively. In doing so, communication between local communities and the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development is extremely important. Since the positions presented by Dr. Gjerkes before the mother's working body are the positions that we agree with in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the candidate for minister. Dr Gjerkes showed that the area of local self-government and regional development was well-known, not least in that he had successfully answered a number of questions from members and members of the committee in those areas. So once again, we'll support the candidate without a fig in his pocket and help him. We wish him a good and successful way, which will also be good for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! The area of local self-government and regional policy has been calling for changes for years. In our desire for a decentralised country, we have established municipalities that are very different on a territorial scale and also by the number of inhabitants. We've reached the opposite. As far as it sounds, we have further centralized the country by overly crushing the congregations. The mandate and powers can not be passed on to a municipality of some 100 people, and to a municipality of more than 10,000 people, at the same time not to mention two more. It is clear from the presentation of the candidate on the working body that he is aware of this and that his opposition to further finening is welcome, but he is not prepared to enter the existing network of municipalities actively. He made that very clear yesterday, too. The candidate for a minister also attaches the importance to all those who have been reminded of the need to establish more restrictive conditions for the establishment of new municipalities and at the same time the need to prepare a new law on the financing of municipalities, by which we will remove incentives for the creation of new municipalities and begin to reward integration procedures. So the procedure that's opposed to what we've witnessed in the last 14 years is 15 even. It is also necessary to place urban municipalities in the system of local self-government more meaningfully. This is not to be overlooked by municipalities established by the administrative unit. However, that there is no ignorance in politics, the candidate indicated in the answer to the question whether he agrees with the proposed incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. He avoided the answer and said that it had advantages and weaknesses. The advantage is that the mayors of parliament make an important contribution to the adoption of quality decisions in the forms of marriage in the National Assembly, and, of course, at the same time, they point out that there is a weakness, and this is the privilege of these Members, who are also mayors or mayors, who are Members at the same time. He thus avoided a direct response to his view of incompatibility. The candidate predicts the continuation of activities related to the establishment of the provinces. Serious debates on the number of competences and financing are therefore ahead of us. This was also announced by the President of the Government, who is proposing a candidate for government minister. As a priority, the candidate highlighted the successful use of European funds. That's all that matters. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that this goes beyond the scope of the work of the future minister, for this is a task in which the entire ministerial assembly must participate in the future. And those who had the opportunity to listen to the presentation of the candidate by the President of the Government today have already agreed, at the proposing stage, on measures to help draw more effectively on European funds. He also announced good cooperation with mayors and mayors, with both associations and with all, not just those in Parliament. Finally, let me only express the desire to actively include the profession in the preparation of solutions in all areas, namely regionalisation, local community financing and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. It is not a crucial moment, it is a change that does not have political levers, it is the personal decision of Mrs Zlata Plosteiner, whom I thank very much in this place for the work done. However, I wish the candidate a successful continuation of her work so far. The candidate for Minister therefore has the support of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Yesterday and today we have a day to try and fix local problems. But I can tell you in the introduction that it's probably not the most successful. I think it would be reasonable to consider the appointment of a new minister before addressing these local topics that we had at this meeting. In order for the new Minister to be able to participate in the debate, both on the financing of the Ljubljana Municipality and on development assistance in Pomurje. I think it would be a good and appropriate journey for the Minister to enter politics. That is how we have here today, or we have had the Secretary of State, who participated on behalf of the Government, but from half an hour of the time announced to discuss the amendments with the Members, he spent 2 minutes and a half, and of that most of the time mainly to criticise the previous government and almost no time to discuss and to argue the Government's views and solutions. I think that says a lot. So today we have our first change in the ministerial team. As can be explained and understood by the Minister's resignation, her resignation is primarily a reflection of the powerlessness and exhaustion of the failure to fight within the Government for powers and control of local and regional policy, of the important decisions in the area of calls, the allocation of EU funds, other resources and so on. The Minister was the victim of disputes and irregular governance of the Government, and unfortunately it is the victim of the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Due to the lack of consistency of the coalition agreement and also to the fact that other ministers are involved in the field of local self-government and regional development, it was not possible to make any breakthroughs in this area. Perhaps this is the fundamental reason why the Minister has resigned, and we hope for nothing that this resignation has also sobered the Prime Minister and his team. We expect mainly from the Government operationalism, effective performance of tasks, but in this Government we have the feeling that there are more inhibitors than those that are accelerating. This change will probably not be the only one that will happen. However, we would expect some other ministers to opt out. It is said that those who are obstacles to taking action, those who are burdened by affairs or those who do not propose anything, such as the Minister of Economy, who has not proposed any substantive action in this difficult situation during the crisis. But that's probably not gonna happen. These are indispensable. The way the government works is best seen in the recruitment process of the New Ljubljana Bank. In two or three months, the U.S. government nationalised and reprivatized its largest bank, City Banc. With us, however, the government, or this set, failed to establish even the bank’s management in one year. We've spent a lot of time appointing a director, a resignation, to form a supervisory board. And once all this has been done, we find that due to certain obstacles it is not possible to complete our largest bank’s management team. And this is likely to have short-term, current consequences, and this will certainly have long-term consequences. But it's not the only case. Similar stories are also found in other systems such as Slovenian Railways. This process of exchange of ministers has started quite unfortunately, both for the Government and for the parent party, which by quota belongs to this ministry. If already within the applicant, this is the right party, which by quota belongs to this ministry, there are messages about nepotism, about undemocratic election procedures, about the fact that the candidate does not have the necessary leadership experience and experience in the area for which he is proposed, then this candidate proposing such a candidate to the National Assembly, which is the President of the Government, appears in a strange light. It is difficult for him to be attracted to the integration approach in this case. We wonder how the Government can work effectively if it places a minister who does not have a grip on either his own party or his own MPs, or if there are such strong and strong public contradictions among those closest to him. This is a poor journey for the work of the minister, for the work of the coalition and for the work of the government. Even after the appointment of the new minister, no significant improvement is expected. Both the new Minister and the former Minister, who resigned, will be assisted by the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State, and then there will be two state secretaries for this area, both probably in the cabinet of the President of the Government, both doctors, Genorio and Horvat, who will be involved in managing this department. And on top of that, there's a superminister of mag. Gaspari, which will be the umbrella of the management and operation of the local self-government. According to the government's programme, in a few days, no later than one month, the entire package of provincial laws should be on the table. But there is also a stalemate in the coalition because the coalition doesn't work because there's no real ideas and there's no real job involvement and will. So there's no concept, there's no direction, everything happens just by giving an impression of likeness. The problem is content and effective measures. Since there is no provincial arrangement, the government and the coalition manage things quite domestically. First, take care of those who are powerful and rich. Those who do not actually need funds, such as the case of the law that we dealt with yesterday. First of all, the Municipality of Ljubljana, with the capital law, which brings around €15 million to the municipality. But that's not enough. In addition, the Government has prepared an additional agreement, together with the Municipality of Ljubljana, which allows funding to be financed by agreement without limitation, without funds, but funding for certain projects of the Municipality of Ljubljana by choice or by the Minister or President of the Government and the mayor of the future mayors of the Municipality of Ljubljana. Completely inconsistent, inconsistent with the legislation and also inconsistent with the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it happens that individual government ministers are also negotiating with the municipal municipality to transfer certain local institutions to the national level. It is said that the city municipality will further dispose of certain projects, some institutions. And this will be paid by taxpayers from all over Slovenia. It is not unnecessary to mention the attempt of the coalition members who proposed amendments worth around 30 million euros for the purchase of apartments for the Municipality of Ljubljana, not for the municipalities, but for the Municipality of Ljubljana, for the regulation of sports areas. Then this clientelistic approach of the coalition to the Municipality of Ljubljana is, in fact, quite clear. We can see it as a payment for past work to Mr Jankovic, and also as a payment or as a payment for a mistaken or not-thought-out urban policy that has led Ljubljana to a very high or even enormous debt. And only when the richest are paid, when the resources are provided to the richest, are Pomurje, Koroška, maybe Kočevska and similar difficult problems in this country. These are areas that are in a different direction. And there's probably no art to see how these laws were proposed by the government. First the law on the capital, only then, much later, after much pressure came the law on the Pomurska region. I need to find out that the candidate at the hearing did not have the right answers. It has been known that he does not know the procedures, that he is not fully aware of the content of the work of the department, that he does not know the deadlines for implementation and that there are many other things we could add here. And this does not give good promises for effective work, nor for the removal of deformities in the way this coalition operates, as I mentioned earlier. The position of the candidate towards small municipalities is also very prominent. He would probably have abolished most of these congregations instead of encouraging them. He has reservations about the call for regional funds. In the previous mandate, four calls were made and only the financial perspective 2007-2013 started, the first year of implementation of the perspective. This year, when we already have this system running, when we already know how it's going, we're thinking about whether we'd make any such calls. The government's thinking about how to pull them out in the first place. And the government carried it out. I don't think that's good. It is also noteworthy that the candidate for a minister has no complete idea of what the regionalisation of Slovenia should look like and how many provinces there should be. Here the coalition and those who represent the coalition who want to be ministers in this coalition are talking about the number three to eight. From the point And no one tells you what three would be, and no one tells you what eight would be. And for one year we are waiting for any paper on the regionalisation of Slovenia to come to the table after the non-acceptance, non-confirmation, non-vote of the proposal in the former term. No document on this subject has been submitted by the Government in one year. The Minister's candidate said that the first elections in the provincial councils would be with the local elections next year. Along with the local elections next year. At least six months before that, all relevant legislation should be adopted. I think the comments on this are too much. Therefore, we cannot give a positive assessment to the candidate for Minister for Hiring. But it's too early to judge his work. And we, like any minister, will judge him according to his work. Some of us can because we've been partners for a year, and some of us are definitely going to be partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u268	Thank you. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Minister! In the Group of Members, we were really surprised at the information that the Prime Minister of the Government proposed as a Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. That's what we said, because we didn't know the candidate. That is why we have decided to tie our agreement to his candidacy to his presentation before his mother's working body. However, in doing so, we stress that the key responsibility for the proposal is, however, primarily linked to the President of the DeSUS Party, Mr Karl Erjavac and the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, because within a few hours the candidate cannot be fully known and evaluated. At yesterday's presentation, the candidate, Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, presented a good and ambitious work programme and also views on the problems in this area, which are really close to the Group. If, in practice, he follows up on what he said yesterday, then we can expect him to do his job if he is elected by working with local communities, with municipalities and their associations, and also to contribute more effectively to the use of European funds. He faces a difficult and difficult task in the event of an election, and this is so with regard to regionalisation and the establishment of the provinces, and we stress this, we are pleased to support solutions in the direction of a smaller number of major provinces, with an emphasis on the sub-regional level. From the point of view of his previous references and the work he has done, we are pleased that in the event of an election to the Government, a person who has worked directly so far in the field of energy, with a focus on renewable energy sources and on this related area of sustainable development. This, we hope, will also strengthen the Government's awareness of a more active role that can be a real opportunity during the crisis in this area. In his presentation, the candidate also highlighted the issue of major differences in Slovenia's regional development. In doing so, it is interesting that it comes from the Pomur region and now lives around Ljubljana and has pointed out some problems and shortcomings in this regard as well as ways to resolve them. In doing so, we welcome its exposure to too much fragmentation in Slovenia and also the position regarding the establishment of new municipalities. In the Parliamentary Group, we will really support the candidate for a minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, and if he is elected, we wish him much success, will and energy in dealing with the problems he faces. Right away, tomorrow and in an area where learning, introduction and learning are simply not going to be the time. We also hope that he will choose, given the weight of the problems, suitable associates, who will also help him in this difficult work and tasks. The current Minister of Mag will also be among them after the resignation. The Golden Plosteiner, which I really thank on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors for its work and cooperation with our Group of Members, and in particular I wish her plenty of health.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Prime Minister. Hello, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a candidate for a Minister without a director responsible for local self-government and regional development, Mr Henrique Gerkesh. With the candidate for Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gerkesh, we agree that one of the priorities, at the same time the most difficult and responsible tasks he will have to deal with, is the successful use of European funds. We believe that it is an extremely important task, which will also not be easy, to establish excellent contacts with the mayors and mayors to solve the problems of local self-government. The fact is that the area it takes is one of the most difficult since certain things are left out or inadequately placed from previous mandates. One of the biggest problems that will have to be tackled in addition to the tasks mentioned above is the significant differences in Slovenia's regional development. Mr Gjerkes also comes from such a statistical region, which is one of the most underdeveloped. We agree with his assessment that this problem is further affected by the fragmentation of Slovenia into 210 municipalities, so further fragmentation of municipalities is not rational. That's his opinion. From this point of view, the conditions for the establishment of municipalities as defined in the Local Self-Government Act should be reconsidered. We believe, however, that the participation of the municipalities, particularly the participation of the municipalities, should be encouraged through the creation of joint municipal administrations, which would enable more rational and quality performance of tasks, as well as through project integration as an effective form of work. The toughness of the nuts, which we believe will be successfully tackled, is also a matter of local community funding, as their development needs to be taken into account in addition to their size and population. Thus, respect for the principle of solidarity is essential. Slovenia is still a highly centralised country, and efforts must be made to continue the process of decentralisation. The State has thus not only given municipalities the task but also has to provide them with the means to fulfil these obligations. Special attention should be paid to the financing of municipalities or municipalities that provide services to other municipalities in certain areas, as they bear all the financial burdens themselves, such as music schools, libraries, and could also be listed. In any event, in finding solutions in the area of integration of municipalities, various forms of cooperation, strengthening the role of municipalities throughout the system of additional possibilities for transferring powers to local self-government and greater autonomy of municipalities, it is essential to continue to deepen dialogue both between different departments and between local communities, mayors and mayors, with the community associations and the state. Today in this Chamber we have already discussed the proposal for a law on development support for the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015, which I hope will be adopted at this meeting. We are therefore pleased that the candidate has also listed the implementation of this law as one of his priorities. Due to the exceptional economic situation, especially the bankruptcy of Pomurka, Mura and others, specific measures and coordinated action by all government policies are needed. I agree with him that the region with short-term fiscal and long-term policy measures can be relaunched, the people of new jobs can improve the situation in the future and the average development in Slovenia is approaching. We also agree with him that the problems of all municipalities and regions, including intensive dialogue with mayors and mayors, should be dealt with equally. As I mentioned at the outset, one of the ministers' key tasks will be to ensure the successful use of European funds. We agree with the candidate that it is necessary to simplify the overly complex procedures for drawing on these funds. Certain activities, such as the introduction of advances, represent one of the anti-crisis measures, the introduction of lump sums for specific costs, the substantial reduction of evidence of eligibility of funds, the increase in requests for reimbursement from the European Commission, the simplification of the information system and the other, are already under way. However, simplification and procedures should be continued. I agree with him that there is a need to improve programmes for the availability of European funds and to find ways to include some less developed programmes, such as the area of renewable energy. The operational programmes adopted will need to be thoroughly examined and adapted to the current economic situation. We must not forget, however, that there is yet another difficult legacy that has already been going on for several mandates. This is the continuation of the regionalisation process. Because he is facing the emerging provincial legislation for which his predecessor has already set the guidelines. The fact is that we need the provinces, as they will allow the country to decentralise as well as new development opportunities. We also agree with the candidate that he must first justify proposals for the formation of the provinces. The Strategic Council for Regionalisation has already provided guidance for this area, and following a recommendation from the profession that Slovenia should form a small number of provinces, it has not decided on the number. When he gets to know all these things, he's gonna do it, I'm sure. Regardless of the number of provinces, the transfer of powers from the country to the province will have to take place gradually so that the new provincial administrations do not become satisfied with the routine work. We agree with his assessment that large regions pose a threat to regional centralisation and that a sub-regional level will also need to be taken into account in the design of solutions. Once appropriate professional backgrounds are prepared, public debate will have to continue and a wider social and political consensus will be reached, as we really need the provinces for new development opportunities. However, I would like to point out that without adequate political support it will be very difficult, irrespective of the professional basis, this process of reorganisation of regionalisation is very difficult to complete, so I wish him a lot of expertise and political wisdom on his ministerial path. We'll support him, he's got support in the client. However, I thank the former Minister of the Golden Square for her efforts in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u273	First of all, I would like to respond to that part of the debate, in particular the opposition Members, who have taken advantage of the legitimate opportunity to make some general views when appointing a new minister on their understanding of the Government's work. Now, no government is perfect and neither is this government, but I suggest you say to the Minister or Ministers that they have made a good or bad decision, but one thing I ask you: do not tell any of my fellow workers that they are not diligent, or decent, or committed to their work. None of them! Work is too difficult at this time because of circumstances that any of the people sitting in these benches could say that they are there or because of their salary or privileges or because of any private interests. They took the job in situations where they were judged to be better than they actually were, including me, but I expected from all the worst, they were doing their best, and - including me - they made bad decisions, but they also make good decisions. And it is possible, and it is right here, to discuss: but all are devoted in order to their work, even to the Magi. She did her best to do as much as she could until she simply, after the month of June, when she first told me she couldn't do it, in October she did not finally give her credit for this function. It's hard work, and it's hard to get enough work done if you don't have it in you, because you just want to do something good in the position you're in. Another time. Delays in the adoption of regional legislation. So, dear colleagues and friends of two opposition parliamentary groups, I was the President of the Constitutional Commission at a time when we worked very hard to change the constitution and enable it to begin in one or the next term with the preparation of regional legislation. May I silently ask which two parties did not vote in order to meet the constitutional conditions for this to begin? Let's keep this a rhetorical question. It was necessary to wait for the mandate in which we were in the opposition to understand the necessary regions of Slovenia and to give our vote for the necessary constitutional changes. Thus, the former government could begin drafting regional legislation. Not today, I have already said many times, even during the pre-election campaign - because of this, the pirates have told me that this is not the wisest thing - I have repeatedly commended the work of the former Minister for Regional Development. And I hear the previous government has made a lot of money. The problem we are facing is this: if you want to have a solution for the regions immediately, then ask this coalition and this government to essentially agree with the fourteen or fifteen provinces. But if you leave this government, think about another alternative, and then, dear colleagues, as you had to take three years to prepare legislation, we must take some time. Unless you're asking us to come back to the National Assembly with fourteen provinces. But we had a referendum, and people said what they thought. It's not that simple. We will arrive as soon as possible with a proposal for provincial legislation in the National Assembly. He's giving you that assurance. The problem is, and we do not hide it, that there is a different opinion in the professional public about what is good and what is bad, what is different in the coalition, what is good and what is bad, and I am sure when we come here to the National Assembly and we will have to put together a two-thirds majority, that there is very little chance that we will succeed. Very few options! We will prepare legislation to make this possibility clear to the National Assembly. So much for delays. Drawing on European funds. Let's be absolutely clear: when we took over the government's mandate, the numbers were worse than they could have been. That's not what I'm gonna say. I've said many times that when power is taken over, it's usually a criticism of the former authorities that you've finally won the elections and it's your job to move things forward, not to comment on them. But if we now look at the difference between the previous time and this year, we find that, without offense, we have come from a situation where we had a minus in the European budget, to a situation where we have a plus. So you have to say he's a magician. Also because of my decision and the decision of the Government to have a military administration to decide on the use of European funds, to have some success. Let me tell you again, military administration, she had her hands on this area. There were no conflicts or conflicts or other problems that would prevent projects from being implemented if they were good. She had all the powers. I said, let's go as soon as possible, time's running out, 2013's here, let's go pump the money! But, of course, there must be calls, projects must be well prepared and you know what the problems are with participation. So I say, Dr. Gjerkesh, who is proposed to be a candidate, is not a perfect candidate, as no one is for this position. He is willing to do his best to do this task with the help of those who stand by him. It is fully aware of the complexity of this area, and I am responsible for its nomination and will endeavour to give it the opportunity to meet all three expectations: that European funds will be drawn up successfully, that the proposal for regionalisation in the National Assembly will be without, of course, an empty promise that it will be accepted, because it will be decided by you; and finally that cooperation with local communities and mayors will be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Replica, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u276	We are in the context of a debate in which the President of the Government is also involved and where a replica is also possible. [[...]] Mr Tanko was, not by name and surname, but by content, certainly addressed in the position of the President of the Government. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u277	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I think it would be right for coalition Members to also allow those of us on the other hand, as we have in this blue book, which does not have free blue canvasses, to give our opinion, in the way that this blue book also prescribes. The President of the Government mentioned some facts, including their agreement to amend the Constitution in the previous term - this is true - but this agreement to amend the Constitution in the previous term was bound by the provision that the law establishing the provinces should be adopted with two-thirds, according to the constitutional majority. It is said that it was a step that was taken that was urgently needed, but it retained all those elements to carry out the project, as it had been before, nothing had been facilitated. And you then adopted this two-thirds consensus when adopting the relevant law and you refused, you did not give two thirds or those missing votes for the adoption of this law, and that is why the provincial legislation has fallen, Mr President of the Government. Secondly, I would just like to remind you that the proposal for fourteen provinces is your 2003 proposal. And it was only when we arrived with our landscape map, thirteen, twelve plus one, whatever, that you changed your position, when the whole process had already gone quite far and was also at a wider level of coordination. Even with those who have seen themselves as provincial centers and with the areas that have been seen in this. We have not resigned here absolutely nothing, we have taken no other step than had previously been foreseen. However, as regards the use of European funds, the distinguished President of the Government, we are likely to agree here. During the previous term of office, the last year of the previous term, four calls were made for the allocation of European funds which enabled Slovenian operators, municipalities and anyone to apply for and draw on these funds. During this term of office, your first government year, there have been inflows on the basis of a call for tender in the previous term. You have not implemented a single call from this area in this mandate until today. Let's say we're talking about cohesion funds, not a single invitation to tender. I don't understand how someone says we've become a net mercenary now, but we haven't made a call. All of these are inflows from previous calls, from previous governments, not from the current government's invitation to tender. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u278	Mr. Tanko, let me finish slowly. Three minutes' worth of mine for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u279	These are the necessary explanations. But I've been waiting for you before. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u280	You asked for a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u281	Communicate with Mr. President of the Government. [[....]] Here are some valid explanations that place the interpretation of the Prime Minister in a slightly different light and on the right foundations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u283	The President, a few hours ago when the other Vice-President chaired the meeting, was the case when a replica was requested and the Vice-President made it very clear that the replica is only possible when the person is named by name and surname only or by surname only. I don't object to your decision to give your colleague a replica. I ask you, and this is my procedural proposal to discuss, at the first opportunity of the College of Presidents, what is the standard for the allocation of replicas, because it would be good for this standard to be valid for all the Presidents, but not for this to fluctuate, depending on the President and also on the person who asks for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u284	Mr. Yuri, thank you very much. Your proposal is well-founded. However, I fear that any agreement in college will mean that it will not be implemented in practice, as the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are also now very clear. They are not bound either by their name or by their last name, but are linked to the fact that the late debater should misinterpret the implementation of the previous debater. And this previous debater would have the right to an explanation. If they were precise, Mr Tanko did not explain his debate, but he did dispute with the views of the President of the Government. I fear that, despite your absolute good wishes and urgency, it will be very difficult to arrange. Thank you very much. Now we can proceed, Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to do so procedurally, only for a very short time, but I am obliged to do so because the views of the Members' groups have just been presented, except for the position of the DeSUS Group. Let me say that you will understand why I am saying this, that both I and Mr Franci Žnidaršič, who unfortunately cannot be present today, have ensured that we will not oppose the candidate proposed by Mr Pahor. Unfortunately, we can't provide support for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u286	Mr. Rezman, you have the right to your position. However, I'm afraid this is not part of the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u287	If I may, if I may, I may deny the truth that has been told or not. The delegation did not decide to vote for the candidate. Two. According to the minutes, two, according to the minutes of the parliamentary groups [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u288	Mr. Rezman [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u289	two members [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u290	No offense, but it's not. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u291	They'll hold out. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u292	a matter that could be cleared by the National Assembly. [[...]] And please, in the context of the procedural debate, he cannot decide [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u293	The procedural debate is intended [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The truth. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Zanoškar - not on this subject!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u295	Procedural, well-respected presidents. I would only point out that Mr Rezman's procedural proposal was counted at the time of DeSUS. Please return this. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u296	You don't have time either. Thank you. We're done here. DeSUS will no longer speak at this session. The first to have the floor in the debate is Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Well-welcome, distinguished Mr President of the Government, Mr Minister and everyone here is present, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, each of us has a democratic and autonomous right of opinion and also an assessment of the work of the Government. This has also been the case in the past, as it is today, and I also understand some of the critical views and opinions of some who have already debated before me on behalf of the views of the groups in question. Of course, first of all, thank you very much to the Minister, Mrs Mag. The Golden Plosteiner for the hard work she has done, and also, certainly, as has been said, an extremely conscientious work. However, in all this debate before what I have listened to, I can say with confidence that I myself will support the proposal of the President of the Government and also support Dr Henrik Gjerkš as Minister of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy do not look at any different opinions and perhaps even picres and sharp, almost at the very limit of offensive, comments. Mr Gjerkes's resource will be one of those who will require a particularly determined approach and also a very hard work in the field of local self-government, where the involvement of local communities, including local self-government itself, in the financing of municipalities, because there are some inconsistencies, including those relating to the status of municipalities, as well as some smaller ones. Therefore, I believe that it will not be easy to work, but on the one hand with experience at work and on the other hand still with youth, I am sure that with a lot of positive energy and will he will be able to do his job successfully. Of course, we now have an opportunity for local communities to use European funds from the European financial perspective by 2013. This also represents a great opportunity, as well as a challenge, and an attractive opportunity for local communities, which are often unable to carry out projects financially or to co-finance projects themselves. This has been demonstrated in the past, and this has also been made public by some opposition members of the Committee on Local Self-Government. I believe that here too, Mr Gjerkes himself will have to have a firm approach to the fact that local communities will also have prepared documentation and will also have a serious approach to the calls for proposals. So, there will be a need for cooperation, greater cooperation between municipalities, the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, but I think it will not be difficult, because it is Mrs Mag. Zlata Plosteiner has already been extremely good at this work and has also been very involved in various regions and has collaborated with mayors and mayors. Of course, the important role in the minister's mandate will be regional development and the process of regionalisation, i.e. the emergence of landscapes, of which several words have already been said today, as well as the President of the Government has also mentioned several times in recent times and also made clear support for the three provinces in Slovenia. In Slovenia, for sure, it will also be extremely important to ensure a coherent regional development, ensuring the conditions for as much as possible a demographic population, so the sub-regional level will also have to be taken into account - as we have discussed much about Pomura today. Surely other regions, other sub-regions - and I myself come from one - will need special services from the Government's Local Self-Government Service, especially those which are also slightly undernourished from the point of view of development, and support for the law for coherent and equitable regional development, so that we can talk about the meter being the same for all we want. However, it is extremely important and difficult, as has been said before - although the President of the Government, I think he has said quite nicely and correctly - about the policy of drawing on European funds in the past as well. I believe that a lot of things could be said more sharply, and it might not be all very well for some, but, as we say, we are moving forward, and there will probably be a number of issues, if necessary, that will be resolved. Even with regard to the dilemma of the lower leg and other matters to those facing the problem daily, it is not right that this has not been resolved in the past. Therefore, even though it was said that nothing had been done, she commended the government for handling this. I think that the Transport Committee meeting made it clear that there was no local community here, but a government that helped. So thank you. I believe that we will be able to implement, as soon as possible, certain projects necessary for a balanced regional development, particularly in the field of transport infrastructure. And as we have said, even for cohesion projects, at least here I hope to say when we also have the Minister of Environment and Space present here. I think that his department, his ministry, is an extremely active approach to the implementation of cohesion policy, so I think that this path is the right one and approaches as well. This is how we want to be able to continue to discuss the projects that have been implemented at some point, but we must not be too impatient if some of the ways and steps have not been taken before. However, it will also have to be taken into account - and I believe that the current Minister of Local Self-Government will also take this seriously, and will certainly also take into account the findings in the Court of Auditors' audit report, even though no one will like it when he will ever have to make a sharp statement. So let's not blame him. Let's support him. I will personally support Dr. Henrik Gjerkesh as Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. I estimate that if this is the support of the President of the Government, if this is the support of the coalition party that she proposed, and if this is an academically educated person, a person, including with experience and knowledge, somehow there was also a presentation - those of us who are members of the Committee on Local Self-Government, we have also had the opportunity to hear that there was an opportunity to work in the economy, not only in the academic sphere, but also an opportunity to be a mentor and also to direct young people in the area of individual developmental tasks and economies. [[...]] That is why we want this to be operationally displayed in the very department of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. I am even more pleased that she will also participate in the cabinet of the current Minister, Mrs Mag. Golden Plosteiner, and I believe that there will certainly be a great and important support here in addition to both state secretaries in the cabinet of the President of the Government. I wish Mr Gjerkesh, above all, a great deal of energy. I think that our positive approach and cooperation will not leave any success at work, but we also need to know that the National Assembly is the one who supports or does not support certain projects and development moments, so it will not only be the responsibility of the coalition, but also of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u299	Thank you, President, for the time adjustment. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It follows from our coalition agreement that the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia is entrusted with three resources. I think we've shown enough responsible attitude and thinking when we've recruited all these three ministers. Unfortunately, we note that the Minister is leaving, and this should also be confirmed to you that this time, when we are recruiting the new Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, we are doing so with a full sense of responsibility; the responsibilities of our party, the Executive Committee and the responsibilities of the Group of Members. I am not talking about the candidate being supported by the entire parliamentary group, but most of the group supports it because we believe in it because we know that it is a good cadre, that it is able to lead and make this effort to ensure that the area of local self-government and regional development is well represented and well developed. To all those who think otherwise and who are skeptical of this, I suggest that you vote for it and wait for it to show with concrete result what it has also pointed out to the very successful defense of all the questions and answers to the questions it has received on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister. It would be wrong to evaluate the candidate for education and achievements that are few and from everything that is presented would not allow him to give an assessment that is certainly positive in all respects. However, the department of the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development requires an expert in this area who will meet everyone who expects the maximum. The former minister obviously failed and was unable to shoulder the responsibility she was entrusted with. Every minister in this department is expected to do much, and if these expectations are not met at the outset, disappointments are even greater and things happen. At the time of the recession, when it creaks financially in all local communities and immediate action is expected, as well as the results of obtaining European funds, in order to implement the projects prepared and set up. Of course, I would expect the applicant to believe in the appointment, believe in the candidate's ability, but - no! The party proposing the candidate is not in agreement. In short, he does not believe in the candidate, so our concerns have aroused doubts as to whether the candidate will be able to do the job with full responsibility. At present, we cannot afford that the exchange would take place again in a short time and that the story would be repeated when the former Minister found that she lacked political power, "the land of wings", and therefore expressed her wish after the end of her term of office. It is all the first time and if the candidate believes in himself and if the political power is maximum, there is no doubt that he would not succeed in completing the mandate of the Minister for Local Self-Government. If he's elected, I wish him well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With such appointments of new ministers, I am constantly reviving my own case, when two years ago I also experienced this in some way on my skin, and I can tell you that I was not particularly comfortable with all the criticisms, with all the things I heard on my account, and I didn't know that before. Especially pretty was the one who's gonna do what he's gonna do on the hockey team if he can't skate. However, I do not wish to discuss this in this way, because it seems to me that this is humiliating for all those who are running for ministers, and it is only right that we give each of us the opportunity to prove ourselves in this way and otherwise, and we judge it, of course, by what we do, especially after work. I was pleased when the President of the Government made a decision and proposed someone coming from Pomurje as a new candidate for local self-government and regional development. You may recall that this was actually the pre-election promise of the President, not the President of the Government at that time, but at the pre-election meeting in Murska Sobota, that he would be one of the ministers of Pomurec or Pomurek. I am pleased that this opportunity is being used this time, which is certainly positive and I support the matter. As far as content is concerned. Yesterday I myself participated in this Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and was particularly disturbed by the position which, last but not least, the President of the Government ordered in some way on Monday, and was also taken by the new candidate that Slovenia would probably have only three regions. This bothers me because I think that this is not the right solution, and I firmly believe that if we had these three provinces today, we would certainly not have anything easier to deal with today than we have in the case of Pomurje, and we should also, despite the three provinces, face this issue and this problem today. Similarly, despite the three provinces, we should discuss the subject that we discussed yesterday, namely Ljubljana. I firmly believe that the three regions in Slovenia do not produce the results they would like to have, namely that today, if the regions were to be established, we should not be discussing the problems of Pomurje in the National Assembly. It's just my point of view, and I can't go through it. In any event, it is primarily the responsibility of the coalition that proposes to elect each minister and, more so, the party that proposes it. And here I see a big problem. In fact, the party that proposes it is not convinced by itself whether this candidate is good or not. I wonder how we, which we do not propose, can decide whether this candidate is real or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It was said that the first impression of the minister's candidate was poor that he was negative. To all those who doubt, I would say that sometimes it is not good for us to judge a person only after our first impression. Sometimes it is good to give him a chance and to speak his concrete actions. So that we will also judge the candidate - I hope that he will become a minister - according to his work. He has made three key messages that I think are very important: firstly, coherent regional development; secondly, successful European resource withdrawal and thirdly, dialogue - not necessarily in this order. I think he's given himself good priorities. It was obvious to him that he had mentioned the number between 3 and 8 provinces. I think it's good that he mentioned it because the more we go to number 3, the more this number can become a reality. Let us remember what the discussion of the provinces in the previous term was like. We have spent practically the entire mandate, but not only on this hall, but I am talking more broadly about numbers, about the number of landscapes in Slovenia. And the former government, which has been one of the most capable in this country since the time of independence, has unfortunately failed. And in the electoral year, practically just before the elections, 22. 6. A few months earlier, we had a referendum, which we have almost all forgotten today. This referendum was attended by 10.22% of citizens and citizens, and these people have made it clear that politics should finally find the answer to this question and that people will not look for an answer to this question. My personal opinion is that the most realistic number is three, and I believe that this statement made by the candidate at his presentation: between three and eight, that this statement is a good one and that it leads towards the reality that we hope to experience in this country soon. It did not surprise me that we have heard again today some kind of psychoanalytical approach to assessing the work of this government, because it is practically not a day, not a hour later, that no one in such an in-depth way that we do not yet understand, not known, analyzed this government's intestines. And this incompetence, incompetence -- that's what we hear in this room every day. I would be happy to hear more about the specific topic that we are discussing today, about coherent regional development, about what we expect, what we want from the candidate, who I hope will become a minister today. And it was said that today we were talking about one marriage in this Chamber, if we remember, and yesterday you read about one another and once you tell us that we are working for Janković, and the second time we are talking about Pomur is again a problem, and they are sitting in this Chamber at a different cost for the state budget. I will limit myself in my debate and give my colleagues the opportunity - I will only say this: I think that in my presentation the candidate has given good guidance, which is a foundation. His journey will certainly not be easy, even because of what some of you have mentioned today, because of the doubts they have even in the party he is proposing as Minister. But I'm sure it'll work out because you know what it's like, like I said: sometimes it would be good if we didn't judge a person just after the first impression. Let's give him a chance to show him what he knows. I believe he'll be a good minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u307	Good-bye, everyone. The circumstances in which the first change in Pahor's government is taking place could be divided into the circumstances in the area under which the candidate is running, where the bag of money is full, in particular the European one. No invitation to tender could be produced throughout the year. The fifth call was scheduled to be published by 30 June this year - the candidate could not tell when he would be checked out. In general political circumstances, however, this first exchange comes at a time when public support in the Pahor government has fallen dramatically. The candidate also lacks uniform support even in the party she proposed, which, of course, is already failing at the start, just as this move weakens the entire government. In these circumstances, the optimal solution would, of course, be a thorough reconstruction of the Pahor government. The Prime Minister had the ideal opportunity to take advantage of this moment to show that Slovenia can do more. An additional weak article, which does not have comprehensive support even in the coalition, cannot, of course, strengthen the Pahor's government, which is publicly reviled, which is also in such or other coalition disputes and disputes. So how can the opposition support a candidate for whom there is no support in the coalition? Yesterday, the candidate also answered a question about the provinces, one of the few, or even the only, predictions that had been made. He said that we will have elections in the provinces along with the local elections next autumn. However, he did not say how many provinces and how this process will be carried out because we know at this point that this is unrealistic. So the feeling that I got when I attended this conversation and listened to these answers is the feeling that I share with many. I think there are more and more of us, and this feeling is that this area will be led in the future by others from behind, which is the worst possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u309	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your floor. Yes, indeed, there was a real debate on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. It was an excellent presentation by Gjerkesh, and there were a lot of questions, there were a lot of answers, and I admit that Mr Gjerkes convinced me that he was a suitable candidate for a minister. He didn't convince me because he came from Pomurje, which I'm glad he convinced me mainly with his expertise, and I think he's going to be a great minister. Today we were able to track one beautiful painting, says "Anonymous star from Pomur". I saw a picture like this two years ago, and it said, "Anonymous star," but it said, "Acorn." I think that Žerjav has done his job well, and therefore I expect you all to support him and that he will be able to take advantage of his opportunity, which today, I suppose, will be given by all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u311	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. With us, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, the leader of the parliamentary group, has already told us that in our parliamentary group, we will all agree to support the candidate, even though we know him differently, that someone knows less about him and that it is not that important at this point. It is important that the presentation he had on the parental committee did well to hear this and read from the minutes how he answered all the fundamental questions and areas he would deal with. That it is very difficult to listen, at least to me and that I will not listen to others at the end of this session, because we are seeing again the practice of converting words that were spoken only yesterday evening or even this morning. The candidate did not say that small congregations should be abolished, that they should probably be abolished, but he made it very clear that 210 congregations are a large number for this Slovenia and that further fragmentation would be irrational. These are his words, but not to abolish the congregations, especially those small ones, but to point out, above all, the positive things that must happen at this level of local self-government, that is the interconnection, cooperation, transfer of the powers of combining these functions. That's what the candidate for minister was talking about, but not that he threatened small municipalities, and that's why some people won't confirm him. He didn't talk about three regions either. He was talking about numbers that appear and are close to him. It has also made very clear - what the President of the Government has also pointed out today - that a two-thirds majority is needed to take decisions on the regions and that once again there is a great deal of cooperation, arguments to make the right decision. We probably all know that it is unrealistic for the elections next year to be in the regions and such a lapus is not the first and is not the last in the ministers or in other people and must be taken as such. It is very unfair to appreciate a candidate for a minister with evaluations, as they have heard, that he had no precise answers, that he did not know the exact procedures of individual operations at the Ministry, as if you could study for a minister somewhere, study, and then wait in stock for someone to call you and call you. It is therefore right to respect the proposal made by the President with full responsibility that the choice is good, that the choice is surprising in such a short time, is as wrong as it would have been if this search for a suitable candidate had been carried out in months. Personally, I am sorry that the Minister has been forced to leave this work because she has been extremely capable, professional and good interlocutor and co-worker. It is therefore necessary to respect the decision and also to give the candidate the opportunity to show. And especially not to talk about feelings, but to make this decision as soon as possible. If someone didn't like the client who suggested that he was a mother's son, even if she was a father's daughter, it would probably be wrong for someone else. I will personally support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u312	Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Of course, I will support the candidate for a Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. However, even though the President of the Government today said or did not wish to comment more on the balance sheet of the former government in drawing funds from EU funds, I would have allowed it. The President of the Government said earlier only that the numbers at the time of the takeover were worse than they could have been. Well, I'm going to do a few more numbers, so let's wake up the historical memory, put it here. The legacy of the Pahor government has been very boisterous in drawing funds from the European Union funds - an inheritance taken over by the new government. I would also like to give some information because a candidate for a minister has indicated that this is one of the priority areas in his mandate. The realisation of the funds received from the European Union in the 2007 State budget shows that the government, I am talking about the previous government, was even less successful in drawing resources from the European Union than in 2006, although in 2005 Slovenia was not successful in the realisation of the funds received from the European Union because only 62.52% of the estimated 483 million euros or 181 million euros less or 0.66% less of the gross social product. In 2006, the Republic of Slovenia absorbed only 77% of the European Union's planned resources and in 2007 the revenue generated from the European Union's funds was 40% lower and 234 million lower than the planned budget. As a result, the Republic of Slovenia was a net payer on the basis of flows to the state budget. Low pumping continued in 2008, where 304 million were absorbed in the first 11 months of 2008 and 352 million euros were paid. I also received data for the full implementation of 2008 - the funds received amounted to 263 million and the payments from Slovenia to the European Union budget amounted to 427 million. Although the government was at the end of May 2008, I am talking about the government of Janez Janša, it planned to receive as much as €seven hundred and thirty-three million from the European Union by the end of 2008, and actually received 300 and sixty million. As a result, as much as 40% of the funds received in the State budget are less than all planned, which means that, or that, in 2008 in the State budget, this item will be the worst so far and that the European Union's drawback in 2008 has been the worst since the start of the European Union's drawdown. This balance sheet is a very poor legacy adopted by our government at the beginning of last year's term of office. There are, of course, some objective circumstances, but in the end, we will be able to assess our government - and also the new minister - because this is one of his priorities - especially after we have been successful in drawing these funds and I hope that, once we have made the balance sheet, we will find that this government has taken a major step forward in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u314	The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u315	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, I began to feel squeezed in my stomach when I listened to some of the nonsense of this presentation today, but let's leave it at that. I will continue to tell you why and how the projects are being run. Today, it was said, or first, that the fundamental issue was to clear up: coalition - opposition. The role of the coalition is to appoint a minister and vote. It's an elementary rule. And, of course, the task of the opposition is that it does not support it because it is not a coalition because it is an opposition. In this case, it is perfectly logical that the opposition of the minister will not support it. It is true, however, that in some constructive opposition there will sometimes be support for any candidate, such as former Minister Plosteiner's, because we knew her in this area. Well, for the first time. Secondly, as far as the gentleman who is running for Minister is concerned, I will not challenge him because he is entering politics and he is going to do it for the first time. Of course, entering politics and performing as Minister of the Slovenian Government is somewhat surprising, but we also have a good example of such practices. If we remember two years ago, when Radovan Žerjav nominated for Minister of Transport from Prekmur, the then Prime Minister, or later Prime Minister Janez Janša, assessed him as the best minister in the government. And that really turned out to be true. I wish I could be the best Minister for Local Self-Government in the Pahor government, but I don't think it's going to be hard for him, because the Pahor government doesn't have any good ministers right now. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Present exceptions. The second thing I want to say about this is this. Those who speak here today, some of whom have a historical memory, that congregations with a few hundred inhabitants cannot take on larger tasks and so on. The Law on Local Self-Government is clear and does not divide between large and small municipalities. Colleagues and colleagues who were already in office when they divided the municipality of Luče into two, 1,800 and the municipality of Solčava with 400 inhabitants? Who's that? What kind of coalition was that, if we remember? LDS and SD! In short, in the documents, how they would do it, even on the government's side came the wrong things to have a primary school, but when it went on the ground, it was seen that they had a second and a third class together, which means two "students" alone. On the other hand, I did not like this from the candidate that he was talking about not being good at further fragmentation of Slovenia. Some congregations are too large. People see that the quality of life of those living in smaller congregations is much better developed than in some large congregations. It's a clean case, Upper Radgona. From Gornja Radgona a new municipality was formed and after three years they had more investments than in the 15 years under Upper Radgona. Look, that's good. It's good for the country, it's good for those people who live there. However, we do not want to build a few towers in Ljubljana, which will now be easy, because they will have as much money as they want, and to move all people about Styria, Prekmurje, Haloz, Slovenian mountains etc., to Ljubljana. To talk about this - because I am also pleased by this candidate, and I have no doubt that you will elect him to talk about the fact that the elections in the regions next year will be together with the local elections. Great! So I count, given that the technique is that the machine is, that it knows exactly what microns mean, etc., just like other techniques in other areas, that it is also a principle. And if it's principled, if it's not, of course, then I believe he'll say, "You know what, go solo! I am not going to do this, I have promised it before the Slovenian public and the Slovenian parliament," and of course he will want to do it. If not, I am sure that he will do the same as Mrs Plosteiner did because she did not have support in her own government for the implementation of the projects, as she set them up. Third, what I want to say. Mr. Pahor said earlier, "Yes, and leave us some time to prepare for these provinces." No, Mr. Pahor. In 2003, when you were in the government in 2003 and 2004, you prepared a document or a document on 14 provinces was adopted in the government. The previous government coalition continued to do so, but it continued because former Minister Žagar had previously aligned himself with the opposition than with the coalition, and we accepted it because we were aware and knew that it must be 2/3 of the majority. I have already said, I think some year ago, that if a government coalition comes with a proposal for regionalisation by transferring more tasks from the ministries to the provinces, then the current opposition will have no reason to oppose it. But if she comes in with a new study, saying that the profession will be defined and so on, she is 100 times already and she is differently divided, as is politics. But the worst part is that we're listening to fairy tales here from some of the ways that this year has been well drawn from the European Community's programmes. You know, the worst thing that hasn't happened this year is that I resent the President of the Government not reacting in time to this fifth call for the first time. Another time. It is not rational to accept the invitation to tender 2010 - 2012 if it has been agreed to be 2010 - 2013 and it is unacceptable for regional development to take the 20% of the 90 million we have already talked about, and God forbid that this should now spill into Ljubljana. It is true that there will be no inflows next year because there are simply no projects. You know, you need to know that first there must be projects, that there must be building permits, that there must be contracts, that projects must be adopted on regional councils, that there must be calls, that calls should be made, that calls should be made, that operators should be selected, and that they should be done in the end. When it is done, the situation is paid, then the State can draw the funds, i.e. the refund by the European Community. So all that came in, thank the former government and the former minister for local self-government, because he really did it the way he did it. Colleagues and colleagues, fellow mayors of the coalition, do you know when we got contracts to sign after the 23rd Article drawing on infrastructure funds? October 14th this year! But until when do we have to give up the situation? By the end of October or early November. And how are we going to do that? Yeah, fantastic, just like always. When are we gonna do those things? You don't know that yet. Please, this is a disaster! And that kind of thing doesn't take this country the way it should. I hope that the future minister will call this fifth call in line with forecasts, but if not, he will also break a number of smaller municipalities' budgets. I hope that it will do so before the new year, in its entirety and all of those around EUR 300 million, approximately also. However, I hope that the mayors will sit down or do something about it because a large part of the burden of the economic and financial crisis is borne by the municipalities in their own burdens, from social, home to the elderly, compulsory health insurance and so on and so on. In short, if you choose him, I wish him constructively and truly a lot of good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u316	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. If I were to now assess the professional references of a respected candidate for minister from this position, I would probably do him a great deal of damage as a politician. Therefore, if he listens to me, he should forgive me for exclusively carrying out my evaluation from this political point of view. In fact, what awaits the candidate or future minister in this area? What we all probably agree with is an extremely good basis for his predecessors, Mrs Plosteiner and Mr Žagar. They were from the profession. They were at home, as we say. They knew, and they were successful. However, in some respects, it is justified to ask two people, who are mainly involved in the use of European funds. Over and over again, we find that we have not been successful. I think it's good on the one hand, and on the other hand it's obvious to the opposition, whether it's this or that opposition, we've always listened to and we're listening to the obvious that those before us weren't successful in drawing on European funds, that they are now and later we find that there's been too little to draw on again, that they're somewhere else. Of course, as long as these administrative procedures require so much paper, it is difficult to draw on these EU funds, and many times the result is a large number of shortfalls in these funds. But that's not the only thing I'd almost try to say is that there's a fundraiser for a candidate who's sure to be a future minister waiting. Because from this position that he is currently working on, I am sure that he has been involved in these projects and that he knows these things very well and that Slovenia may be more successful in this regard also because of his involvement in politics. The next set or next step, which will have to be cut, is the so-called second level of local self-government or provincialisation of Slovenia. We've been so close so many times, but we haven't been as close as we did in the last term. But unfortunately, that was just before we could make it happen, too, because we were not united, but we strongly insisted on each other, even though we all allowed constitutional changes together to go into the establishment of the provinces. This does not seem right to me and perhaps, here was our mistake when we were united in amending certain articles of the Constitution of Slovenia. If it were not for this unity, we would probably not invest time, money and, above all, valuable knowledge in changing the sectoral legislation that was just before it regulated the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. I find it quite difficult - or on the other hand, because I come from the past, how this area of the establishment of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia is wide enough to be able to do so together with the local elections next year. I doubt it. But if this forecast is true, then the fact that we are talking about an excessive range of landscapes: from three to eight. I think it's too much of a range, and if we're talking about some really real possibilities, let's say it's between three and five or six to eight. That seems acceptable to me, but if we go into such a great range as that, I'll say, a little reckless. As regards local self-government, regional development, cooperation with local communities, with mayors of 200 municipalities. This is an area that requires, I will say, so much political wisdom, so much concrete experience in functioning, the functioning of municipalities as entities, and especially in this sense the use of such and other means - extremely difficult. What puzzled me, as my colleague Puksic spoke before me about how we are actually on the side of the coalition and the opposition. The opposition is the one who oversees the work of the coalition, and so it is also in the practice of Slovenian Parliamentarianism that it is a basic task for the candidate to vote as minister, the basic function of the coalition. And so it is here. Of course, there are exceptions when a candidate is supported a little wider. I am convinced that if there were no disagreement within DeSUS itself, from which the candidate for minister comes, the decision would be so much easier. However, since there is no uniform consensus within this basic political cell, there is, of course, a dilemma, not only with us, but also with the general public of Slovenia. I am confident that you will gather the necessary majority so that the candidate will also receive the appropriate support. Perhaps my decision as to whether he is a suitable candidate for a minister would be easier after one year. But today, unfortunately, I cannot support the candidate, because he would make himself and some who doubt these political preferences, injustice, too quickly. That is why I wish, and above all I hope that he will be a successful minister. In our work, we will also benefit from the opposition's instrument in the sense of overseeing the work of the Government as well as the work of the Government, as district minister for local self-government and regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u318	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u319	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not for a long time discuss what has been happening in the past mandate, what is happening now, how very smart some Members have been when we were forced today to listen to their wisdom, deep thoughts and important lessons they have shared with us, as if we ourselves did not have enough experience and knowledge to assess whether it makes sense to carefully support the candidate for Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development or not. I think that some of the predecessors who gave their deep thoughts to the speaker and also to the bench today have allowed themselves to go far and wide beyond what is appropriate for such an important body as the National Assembly. And that, of course, is why someone might even call me back, because they'll see and recognize in what I'm saying right now. However, I think that if he allows it, he will finally admit to the entire Slovenian public that this humility, this corruption in many statements, has gone so far that it is simply impossible to endure it. I must say, it makes no sense for us to discuss what many of us did not have the opportunity or the opportunity to hear at night. I am sure that the young man who comes to the Government, who will probably be here often in the National Assembly, will explain to us the projects and proposals that he will prepare together with his team, clear enough, capable enough, and also sufficiently experienced to mate with all the rigging and also the low impact he will experience in his work here in this Chamber. And that is why I wish him very much patience, thick skin and, above all, perseverance, to be able to eliminate all the nonsense we have experienced in the past mandate, and that he will also be able to regulate the area of European funds so that we will not experience that the municipality, in the smallest, in the smallest half or in a third of its population, has the greatest resources to have municipalities of 2,566 inhabitants of the sports hall, a new school, a cultural home and do not know what else, while others, much larger congregations for their health homes, are worth, let's say, 3 million and a half, four million euros, receive rivers and write 100,000 euros of state resources. So, here it will be necessary for the new minister to really scrutinise and examine whether the calls issued were fair, transparent and whether the projects that were registered for these calls were prepared to the extent necessary. So I'm sure that, given that he's young, he's got a lot of energy and a lot of knowledge, that he's going to be able to make an order with the people who are going to help him. I think it would be a good idea if you took a very generous river through it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u320	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gjerkes was a candidate for the coalition party, then held a discussion with the Prime Minister of the Government, and the President of the Government concluded that he was a capable candidate and that he would propose him as Minister for Local Self-Government. Everyone knows that she's really a party of skeptics, that she wants to hear someone first before she gets an opinion. We did not have any prejudice, not in a positive or negative sense. After yesterday's performance, our members who were present assessed Dr. Gjerkesh as a suitable candidate for the Minister's post. The fact is that Dr. Gjerkesh is motivated, for only a man who is strongly motivated accepts such a difficult task and also the burden of managing such a resource. This area will deal with a very fragmented, very complex, multi-layered issue of local self-government. The predecessor mentioned what was really going on with him. It is also awaiting an ambitious project for the provincialisation of Slovenia. And the fact that no one can assess whether there will be three or more provinces today comes from the fact that the decision on this issue is of a long-term nature and will have long-term consequences - let's hope, positive. That is why we have to deal with the regionalisation of Slovenia with extreme prudence. I have a feeling that Dr. Gjerkesh will be in line with this challenge, that he will deal with this issue wisely and in particular competently. It was expected that the discussion on its appointment would be primarily a polygon and an opportunity for broad and global discussions on local self-government and the functioning or effectiveness of this government. Today, however, we are discussing a man, an expert who is motivated, who has demonstrated considerable competence in his defence and who will probably address all the issues and also solve all those open issues very seriously and very competently. That is why we have no doubts. We will vote for Dr Gjerkesh, hoping that he will be able to carry out all the projects that we have set ourselves and all the objectives that we have set ourselves as a coalition, in particular to bring this country to a rational and effective regionalisation by the end of the mandate, where, of course, all the criteria will have to be taken into account. It is not only a matter of defining the Slovenian regions at a symbolic level, but these regions need to be essentially a confirmation of the country's effectiveness, and this means that they must have some meaning, the result of convergence of all the criteria they define: geographical, economic, transport, gravity, functional and so on. If these regions are built on this basis, this project will of course be a great success. I have no doubt that the whole parliament, including the opposition, will be involved in this project. After the referendum, which rejected the provincialisation, which was, nicely said, exaggerated and which proposed 14 provinces, we now look forward to a clearer discourse, a soberer approach and actual support for a project that will be proven to be good for the country and especially for local communities. So the synergies between local self-government, between local communities and the centre and the country must be ensured, and landscapeisation is one of the challenges where this common objective can be achieved. Dr. Gjerkes will, in our opinion, be competent, will be affected, and also, we believe, overthinking, also expertly prudent minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u322	Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u323	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that the government is elected by the coalition and the coalition also elects a minister during the term of office. This is a fact and the fact is that the opposition does not simply oppose it, but that it also says something that is not always purely pink. I will say in advance that we will not obstruct the election or appointment of a minister in the parliamentary group if, by chance, the coalition does not have enough Members and Members present, which has been happening many times in the past period. We have said that the appointment of a minister is too serious a matter to be played by as a serious opposition party. So, in the event that the Minister is elected, of course I wish him successful work, for the benefit of all, in the good development of the whole of Slovenia; and Slovenia certainly needs development in all areas and areas. Today, regionalisation has already been mentioned several times, and the President of the Government has also pointed out the difficulty of preparing and adopting appropriate legislation, but, honourable colleagues, the Government has written in its programme this year to prepare appropriate legislation as a basis for the establishment of the provinces and to submit it to the National Assembly in the last quarter of this year. And here we are! That's the problem. I say, too, I agree with the President of the Government that this legislation is difficult to prepare, and it is even harder to harmonise it and get a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. We have experienced this thoroughly in recent years. However, it is true that this legislation should be drafted, and here I want the Minister to be elected or today appointed, much success in this coordination, because if we remove this regionalisation, there will be no need to adopt partial laws, as we have been doing in recent days. So that there is no misunderstanding - I will of course support the law on the Pomur Region, whether you support some amendments in the coalition, including ours, which I claim to be good, or not to support them. Well, I'm sure I will personally, and I'm sure my fellow Members will support it as well. As has been said many times, a candidate is even more in the executive branch of politics. Well, I'm not one of those people who would automatically take it as a negative. We have quite a few positive cases in this regard. But I didn't either. You don't agree to go after everything else. I never do this, but I've been on the one hand and on the other, but some colleagues obviously by not saying they can't stop, but they're always repeating this fact, they're always attacking back, even though we've been living together in this business for quite a few mandates. I think that anyone who works in politics sometimes makes a mistake. However, I am convinced that the vast majority want much good for the Slovenes and Slovenia in their work. As has already been said in the opinion of the Group of Members, I will not support the candidate. Of course, I have no doubt that he will be appointed, and I repeat to him that I wish him, of course, a successful job in this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u324	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u325	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. So, the minister, who is supposed to take over the area of local self-government and regional policy, will certainly be an extremely important person, although he is a minister without a resource, but still. Decisions in this service are really very important for resolving the differences between regions. I have already pointed out many times that we have carried out or are concluding one of the largest regional projects in Slovenia. This is the construction of a highway network and, of course, many regions have approached and become accessible to others as well. However, a very open question remains in those areas that do not have highways. One of the issues that will need to be addressed is how to actually provide funds to pay for the construction of motorways and how to actually provide funds for the construction of development axes in those areas that are supposed to be connected to the motorway system. This issue has become extremely extensive, not to say almost uncontrollable with the decision of the previous government to introduce the blames. For the vines we know that they can only provide a certain quota of funds, each additional kilometer - an additional cost, rather than building development axes. So this task will have to be analysed in detail by the new Minister and seek solutions for the construction of development axes. And if I refer to the fact that all motorways are also equipped with fibre cables for broadband connections, and if we look at the distribution of broadband funds allocated by the European Union to those places for which operators have no commercial interest, we find that the funds have been allocated to highway places and in those places that were not on the highway are not successful on calls for proposals because the condition was that the funds would be obtained by those settlements that would spread, which would have a larger number of residents, in short, in areas that are also of commercial interest. These are such missed decisions, both in the functioning of the former Ministry of the Economy and for transport, which will be difficult to correct in this mandate. And I really wonder if we're so rich that we can build two kinds of broadband connections in one area, by not having one of these broadband connections, specifically in the motorways, at all. At the same time, of course, we also draw additional money from European funds for these areas. With regard to the other problems that are emerging and we are talking about, let me just point out that it will be extremely important not only in the field of roads, not only in the field, I do not know the Ministry of the Economy, but after the new Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, it is necessary to coordinate the use of these broadband funds. Cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment is also very important. Far from the most unresolved problems in drawing on European funds, it is at this Ministry. We still have an inappropriate concept of regional waste dumps, we still have an inappropriate concept of waste water management, but we have committed ourselves to our pre-accession negotiations to solve these problems by 2013. Are we able to save them? After this dynamic of preparing the documentation, following this dynamic of uncoordinated action between the Local Self-Government Service and the Regional Policy and the Secretariat Ministry, for example, for the environment, it is difficult to expect to achieve this objective. Here I expect the minister to really put these things in the right place. If we talk about the number of landscapes. Many times today it has been stressed that if we had provinces, Pomurje would have no problems, we would not be talking about Mura in Parliament today, and we would not be talking about Pomurje. If we look at the financial capacity of the provinces that have been proposed, but if we look at the resources available to the province in Pomura, never a single province as far as it has been proposed would be able to save Mura, it would not be able to provide as much tax relief as we provide it now, and would not be able to determine the priority of treating projects to the extent that we can provide them today. It is therefore extremely important that we really think about the landscapes in the most difficult times, and these are today, when there are not enough resources available and when we need to be much more rational, because when the money is available, no one has even wondered what will happen tomorrow when it does not. Thus, thinking about the three provinces in Slovenia is the only real thing. Only real. Each other thinking means more costs for administration and a reduction in the economic capacity of each province to solve its problems. If you see landscapes and landscapes only in the fact that someone has a centre and an administrative centre, then this, my dears, is not enough for the successful development of landscapes in Slovenia. And it is Pomurje where we can learn that we really need a minimum number of landscapes in Slovenia, that we need them for reasons, because there are also so many officials in the state administration from individual areas that they drive regional policy according to their nationality, from where they come to the state administration. And if we want to solve this problem, we can really solve it by setting up landscapes, because somehow these officials are being deployed, and at the same time there is a significantly smaller impact on decisions that somehow lead to unconstant regional policy in the background. And for three, I think it is really the number that we can agree on in Slovenia and it will also have effects on the elimination of regional differences. Other issues that are still very important in regionalism, and more or less we are trying to resolve them, but one of the things that works well in the state budget right now is our 23rd Article under the Community Financing Act, and if we want to do something, we need to maintain the implementation of this Article. It is a matter of helping those congregations that do not have enough of their own resources to handle difficult tasks according to the legally prescribed obligations that we also have. And I also expect the minister to keep this article and even upgrade it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u326	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank the previous Minister, Mrs Plosteiner, for his work so far. I think she was doing her job well until she had the opportunity to influence some improvements in that ministry, particularly in drawing on European funds and other measures. We all somehow expected someone within the Ministry to continue their work and that this transfer would take place very quickly. I absolutely do not object to both formal education and the willingness to work for the new candidate for minister, but I am concerned about some other things that have been going on around this. First, it was foretold that it must come from the eastern part, and of course it happened to come from Pomur. No one's ever talked about expertise before. It is also true that formal education is real, but we are talking about experiences. The university professor and the experience of managing one ministerial base - a person would expect to have at least experience in running a collective, but I think it will be a success with good will. There may be something else that concerns you. Before being appointed, he has already received both left and right support from State secretaries. It is said that even those who propose it do not trust him fully. Get the so-called guardian angels to make sure that this department works. In some ways, this gives me the impression that it will not bring a new spirit and an update and good practice into this system. The discussion was about drawing on European funds and on poor drawing and on this inadequacy. We must not forget that the government in Janša was still negotiated for 4.5 billion in 2005 and that in the following year the previous government has tendered for a billion and a half of these funds that could be applied for by economic operators and municipalities. In one year, the new government has not produced a single invitation to tender, with three more invitations to tender in addition to the first one. By talking about this drawdown and non-resistance, who knows the concept of calls and withdrawals, he knows that the new perspective does not begin on the day the government comes, but on the day the funds are obtained when the tenders are received. And what is being drained this year is still the result of the work of the previous government. The failure to draw has also been mentioned several times, mainly in cohesion funds. We must not forget the great obstacle that we have within our administration in ensuring quality pumping and even greater faith in putting into a space that my coalition colleagues have already pointed out. And this problem will continue, unfortunately, mainly in larger projects, as mentioned earlier: water supply, cleaning plants, roads, railways. Here are key projects that draw most of the major cohesion funds. And speaking of moving the adoption of municipal spatial plans for eighteen months, that means the additional obstacle this ministry will have in drawing on European funds. Not to mention the national location plans, which were seven times higher in 2008, than they were produced this year to this point. This means once again a major, major obstacle when applications are to be submitted and appropriate tender documentation provided. When it comes to regions, you all set some examples abroad and talk about some good practices and so on. Perhaps, however, we can follow the case of Scandinavia, where the state in Finland decided and the state services went to the periphery, divided by law and did not establish a region with administrative competence, but regulated everything with the development regions and thus encouraged the development that Finland has been experiencing in the last period. Maybe that's a good case for us. It is said that the administrative functions of the country are divided across all regions of Slovenia, thus not duplicating any officials, essentially reducing the cost of certain services even on the periphery, providing income to these smaller regions, municipalities and so on, and establishing development regions - perhaps more than we have talked about so far - perhaps 20 - to whom it gives funds and programme coordination. So, over the thumb, at this point, if we did thirty development regions, which is in some context of a sub-region, about which everyone in the subconscious is somehow talking about, having some specific development problems, at this point would mean forty-fifty million development resources for each year. Where these cohesion funds remain at the moment when you look at who gets the invitations, at least to a greater extent, you find that all of this remains somewhere in the centres, especially in Ljubljana. Large partners, from universities and others, are generating key development, so far, cohesion funds. For those who are destined for infrastructure are not yet placed in space. You can't forget that either. And when we speak - previously mentioned, a referendum on the provinces. The referendum was a success, no matter what the participation was. I hope you won't deny that 11% of participation is too low. He was also successful in Ljubljana. However, when we are talking about structural funds and also about Interreg, I would ask myself in particular whether or not I would appeal to the new minister to try, in interviews with Italy, which is a partner in Interreg, to achieve that the ratio at this point, when we can also be bearer partners in Slovenia for Interreg projects, will be at least 50:50. For the information that the government and the former ministry have negotiated for a ratio of 70, 30 in favour of Italy, I am very concerned and I find it inappropriate, because at this point we are all equal members of the European Union. So I'd appeal to the Ministry to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u328	Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Yesterday, I did not have the opportunity to follow because I am not a member of the committee, the entire presentation of the minister, but thanks to the information technology I was able to listen to what he had to say, and found that not everything is not always as it may appear through the assessments of others, over the quickly drawn conclusions, but that sometimes a person needs to listen, give him the opportunity to present himself, to say that he shows the plan and then to make an assessment. After yesterday's presentation, I think that we can say that the candidate for a minister had an excellent presentation, a convincing presentation and also an ambitious one. After all, it will be very difficult for him himself, as he will also have to do what he has said in the presentation. Today we have heard three main findings in this debate: for the first time that there is no experience, for the second time that there is no support in the coalition, and for the third time that he will have a lot of work at the Ministry, because there were no funds available this year. But none of these three arguments deal with the quality and potential of the candidate for minister. All these arguments are somehow trying to bypass the main problem and present something completely different, something that is not related to the question whether this person is good for the management of this ministry. And my answer is, yes, this person is good and can run this department. He convinced us, of course, it is up to us now to follow his work, for if we impose on him the responsibility to do something, then we also have the responsibility to demand results. Let me get back to these three main arguments. That he has no experience is an argument that I often hear on my own account as a relatively young politician, and I reject it, of course, because - where will a person get experience if not when they work. And that experience is not the only thing that determines quality, but is freshness, is potential, is knowledge, is intelligence, is flexibility, is dynamism, is determination, is efficiency, is energy. And he's got all this candidate for the minister. The question is, there's no support in the coalition. We'll see about that in a few hours. You know, there are 90 of us in this room, and everyone has the right to give their opinion. Nevertheless, it is precisely the fact that, regardless of the public concerns raised, the Minister has received convincing support so far, which we will also be able to prove in a few hours; information that clearly tells us that we are determined to stand for this candidacy and to bring it to the end. Then the last interesting argument is that the Government has not so far called for funds or that it has not published calls for funds drawback and implementation of European projects. The government had to work for quite some time and, more specifically, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development on how to correct all those mistakes that have occurred and which are still taking place in the calls issued so far and not until the end of the calls made. The ministry has decided to make a wise and wise move to deal with what is already going on so that it can put new calls on a much better basis. That's good and that's the right thing to do, we'll see not too long after the calls start running much more qualitatively than ever. For, fellow Members and fellow Members, in the invitation to tender, it is not a question of number, but of quality. It is not a question of how much we have tendered, but it is a question of what we have done with the money from these calls and what we have done. Let me finish with the question of the provinces. This assessment was also very realistic and close to what is also considered to be reasonable by geography. I don't think there's any point in losing words. Hardly that 10% of the participation made it clear. Let's give the Minister the opportunity to complete this project and we can talk here in the National Assembly about whether we will be able to do it together - because in the end we will only be able to carry out this project together - we will be able to do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u330	Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u331	Thank you very much. So, the new Minister for Local Self-Government, when he's elected, they're waiting for my assessment of four assignments. The first of these is the use of European funds. For the last time, Minister Gaspari presented the results of the joint fund-raising review to the Committee on European Affairs at a joint meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. Heritage, the previous government has negotiated 4.9 billion, 4.8 billion euros, 30. 6. is slightly less than 7%. So, new minister, we're gonna have to take a nice bite to the apple and the project. Next year, we'll be assessing that. The regionalisation project, however we reverse the results of the referendum, gave its opinion. He fell in only two referendum areas, perhaps Members who think that if he fell in the southern coastal region, he fell across Slovenia. It's not true, people have already said themselves, and so the minister here will have to make a certain thought when he counts the number of provinces he will have. In addition, he will face these new laws that we adopt and that we will and we will deal with. One is about the town of Ljubljana, the other is about the town of Pomure. Soon there will probably be other regions that haven't thought about it - similar laws - and we will have a whole series of weird laws that I don't say may not be necessary, of course they are necessary, but if the provinces were established, it would probably be much easier. As I am aware, he is also a bit of a Grosupeljian, and he will probably also face the law on local self-government, which, as you know, the Municipality of Grosuplje, with the consent of all political parties in the municipal world, is being sent to the Constitutional Court for review. I have no doubt that the Constitutional Court will take a good look at this article, which speaks of the Roma Councilor in the Municipality of Grosuplje, for which the former Minister of Justice and the former Attorney-General said that it was a major intervention in local self-government and thus fully affirmed the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. So, the candidate for minister is Pomurec, and he is also Grosupeljski and will face all these problems interestingly. Of course, I wish him good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u332	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[Not at all.]] Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u333	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm not a member of a committee that had a chance to hear a statement yesterday. And if I read and judge today according to the media records, then I could expect his presentation to be quite uncertain, because they're talking about the headlines that a narrow majority voted for him as the new minister. But when I read the articles and analyzed the records and looked at the tape, two thirds of the board members supported the candidate for minister. So much for how we can read different perceptions about the same things. However, to me, in the debate on what to expect and then also to judge from the promised promises, it seems necessary to give the candidate an opportunity, to choose him, and then to assess the effects of his action. In previous mandates, we also later appointed one of the ministers, and I recall that we later spoke about a candidate for minister for the same area. As for this candidate alone, I cannot say in advance with certainty that he will fulfill everything he has foretold. However, there are three priorities that he has set out in his presentation already in such a way that they are in line with the government's direction. And if he's going to be helped by his associates and here, I think that a lot of reinforcement in his work will also mean the former Minister of Mag. Plosteiner, it is certainly possible to expect success in all three priorities: drawing on European funds, establishing landscapes and ensuring more coherent regional development. While drawing on European funds, I am somewhat embarrassed that once again, the President of the Government has pointed out that the way in which funds are drawn does not change. This is said to be some of the problems we have faced so far, but they remain, but I hope that we will find ways within this to simplify the procedures and how to make the funds more effective. There are areas in which the percentage of funds spent is extremely low. I would like to see improvements by the end of 2009 and, in particular, in 2010 when the results of this government are already being shown. As far as his attitude is concerned. What I especially appreciate is that his statements show that he will respect his knowledge of the profession. The three provinces are also for me the number I support and, as I understand the decision of the people at the referendum. The Mariborians and the environment around Maribor decided at the referendum, regardless of how we interpret the results of the referendum, that they do not support the fragmented landscapes. And if someone looked at "vox populi" today, which is just a question and we can't control who it was and not a representative sample, but 67% of those who felt the need to express their opinions decided on three provinces. Because it is probably common for everyone to want to have a professionally verified decision and to try to have such a division in the provinces that will not increase the official apparatus enormously. If the minister and his team manage to implement these three priorities, just like he set them up, then he deserves our trust. But I think we have to wait for the final evaluation. And as I can now thank Minister Plosteiner for what she has done so far, I hope that, at the end of my term, I will be able to thank the Minister, whom we will decide today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u334	Mr. Dushan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u335	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support the candidate for Minister because I simply trust the President of the Government who proposes it and those colleagues who voted or confirmed yesterday that we are today discussing the candidate for a new minister. I will assess and evaluate his work in the future when he performs his duties as Minister. In fact, there is not enough courage in me to evaluate and value the candidate who will perform this function, and especially not on the basis of the feelings on which some of you have made an assessment of it today. And this is where I could end my debate today. However, since the two political "playmaker" of the party's biggest opposition also took advantage of this debate today when we are discussing the candidate for the new minister, to collect and politically analyse the work of the coalition and the government, I would nevertheless respond to three points in this analysis. The first was said - and not once, I think three times - that the Minister is the victim of a struggle within the coalition. Those who have said this or those two who made this valuation are victims of their own conspiratory story within their own parliamentary group or parties. Another time. It was pronounced a very hard, very sharp assessment, not for the first time, but one-and-a-half of these two political "playmakers" that the coalition did not work this last year and that the government did not work either. Apparently, it is becoming increasingly so when it comes to the thirties, we may be able to get evidence from the politicians that the biggest opposition party with the help of some conspiracial parapsychologists has really made an accurate analysis of the psychophysical and motor capabilities of such a coalition. So we are also Members, the Government, the President of the Government and ministers. Always this analysis, which has been presented in part - I said the 21st time today - along with adding up to date where things need to be updated. But always let a summary of the last ten -, fifteen -, twenty-hour discussions, as before today - those who have not had the opportunity to read it in the newspaper, today we hear this summary of debates, assessments, opinions and so on in these analyses that you are giving. And in the end. I suggest you leave the icon you adopted and this icon is Jankovic. This has become some sort of red thread in your programme for this mandate, let us discuss the city of Ljubljana as yesterday, or not least about many other laws, or the planting of hybrid corn I do not know where in Slovenia. Always this red thread and icon stick together - Jankovic. In short, I suggest that you shorten this "time" in the future and that I will not wait for the thirtieth time to hear by the end of this year exactly the same, identical analysis, with the same sentences and vocabularies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u336	Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u337	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say some of the things that have been said here today in Parliament, particularly one important thing, how quickly the President of the Government has sought out a new candidate. Thank God he found it so fast and he found it so good that the government team could be whole and operate in a full system. This speed is because they are aware in the Government and we ourselves are aware that there is a crisis in which it is necessary to act and it is necessary to be effective. And that is why the Prime Minister of the Government has made an effort to bring before us today a man who will be 100 per cent in this House, certainly not 100 per cent with Members, but we will certainly confirm him. And, as it is said, the government team will be re-integrated. It is, however, what my colleagues have already said that it would not be a matter of principle, for me one matter is very important in the implementation of the candidate, namely on the committee. The Board’s position was presented. However, the fact is that, in my opinion, the Minister of Nature has made some key points and has come forward operationally and presented his future action. Let's just say I repeat what he said. One of the key tasks will certainly be the successful use of European funds. In this area, the candidate will examine, inter alia, how to further simplify overly complex procedures and so on and so on. Among other things, he said that he would introduce advances representing one of the anti-crisis measures, introducing lump sums for indirect costs would significantly reduce evidence of eligible costs, increase requests for reimbursement from the European Commission and simplify the information system. This is, in my opinion, a man of action. And we need such a man in this area, so I will gladly confirm him myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u338	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u339	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! I'm calling again. We have a very responsible job, we appoint a new minister in charge of local self-government and regional development. And just as Mr Kumer had previously said very nicely that he would support the candidate because he was supported by the Prime Minister, it is very good for the coalition to support him. I think it is also very right that those of us who serve as opposition in this mandate should express our concerns and in this way we also help and we all do our work together. I must say that yesterday, when we began our conversation with Mr Minister's candidate early at 8 a.m., after two hours of interruptions, and then at night from nine to half two in the morning to the end, I felt as my colleague, Luka Juri, said, a fellow member of this Parliament. There we were members of the coalition and opposition, without anyone being offensive, we wanted to express concerns and also different views on the development of Slovenia. I have expressed my respect for the candidate and also congratulated him for his courage, for from the fine career he has achieved so far in the academic sphere, the great divisiveness offered by politics is decided. And that's why I think it's necessary, and it's right to congratulate him. Because we cannot judge him, because it would be very unfair for us to say anything bad about him, we dispute what he said and very much perceive that the candidate has prepared himself very well. It is normal that before that, he also had associates who helped write down the direction of the coalition. I was kind of glad that after two hours of questions he had the opportunity to prepare for answers all day long, over 10 hours. He probably had help here, too, and he would have been very bad if he hadn't invited his colleagues to get quality answers. And to a great extent, he convinced me with the answers himself, but he showed the direction where Slovenia is going and which way we are going to go. And here are these problems and also the differences in the understanding of development. Let me just say this on a few occasions. He took up three provinces in Slovenia. Dear colleagues, we don't know where these three are. Yesterday, little was said in a joke, if these are Prekmurje, Koroška and Ljubljana. This must be Ljubljana and two eastern works. And it is very difficult to imagine how we regional needs from the White Country will be realized in Maribor, having common interests in providing the third development axis in such areas. And I think it's going to turn out that the concept of landscapes is when you put it into a common administrative unit, into a provincial unit of people who have some similar common interests. And that's the power to do it in different ways. I am afraid, however, I am confident that the three provinces in Slovenia will in no way link people in the interest and there will be no progress in the development of Slovenia, so it is better to stay as it is today, as it is that we have three provinces. It's my personal conviction, and I think it's right to say it out loud in this part. About the invitations. Today it has been heard the number and quality of what we are afraid of and what is happening to us, that the number of calls will decrease dramatically. One of these calls saw what it meant this year. The Centre for Excellence, €180 million for technological development, remained entirely in Ljubljana. Josef Štefan, Chemical Institute, University of Ljubljana. Maribor, Primorska none of this. A great opportunity to do as they did in Finland - 13 universities have done, developing regions, because they are aware that knowledge and development are going hand in hand, and they have given this dispersion of knowledge and support throughout the country. Polynomization - small, large congregations, good, bad. I do not separate small, large, left, right, but those who do better and those who do worse. And our common task is to provide, through the law on the financing of municipalities, through the conditions for municipalities, resources for regional development to develop in the best possible way through strong communities. This is the only instrument that works in Slovenia. And because of this, despite talking about very large differences, the difference in Slovenia is significantly smaller than in the vast majority of European countries. And here we have, I think, different [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] concepts. [[...]] Since I'm running out of time, I have to finish. Next, we'll all be judged as to what we're going to do. But in conceptual perceptions, I think there's a significant difference between us, and it's right. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u340	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. From the look of it, I can tell you it's not. That is why I conclude the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the 20th and 55th minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 10th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 8pm and 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u341	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on amendments and additions to the State Prosecutor's Office Act. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 30. [[in favour of 46 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Cooperatives. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 26. (The vote was 54.)(against 26.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on development support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. Ten. 2009 We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 3. The drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Mags. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment touches two contents. The first is that three areas that are explicitly mentioned in the law as those with which we would like to achieve a development breakthrough in Pomura, I am talking about geothermal energy and renewable energy sources, tourism and agro-food or agriculture. I am sure that, with these three areas, we cannot achieve simply a developmental breakthrough in Pomur. The added value or return on capital in these three areas is just as it is. Definitely bad, and it's not possible to count on a breakthrough. We therefore propose to add two new indents in the second paragraph, namely the process industry, the metal processing industry and the electricity industry. It is also a comparative advantage of this province and of the traditional industries present in Pomour. I claim that without the development breakthrough industry in Pomour, there will be no. And the other content, which is very important, we firmly believe that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u343	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u344	that new studies, new expertise, new expertise, new documentation, we don't need new paperwork in Pomur. [[...]] We have prepared a lot of this in the past, so we estimate that this has been enough. Today, we need new jobs in Pomura, and it is right that this money, which has been used through this law to prepare studies and so on, shortens the paperwork to be used for the purposes for which this is most important, in order to open new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u345	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 4th Article of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we will vote in favour of this amendment. It is, however, that the first indent of Article 4 on the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region between 2010 and 2015 is deleted from paragraph 3'support for the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region'. According to the material, three million euros have been prepared for this instrument. And my assessment is that it is a shame that, in fact, three million euros would be spent on consulting in the preparation of development projects. In my debate, I said that the Pomur Chamber of Economics had presented 40 projects that were prepared "ready to go", 40 projects from different fields, and it would not be wise that the money we urgently need to implement concrete projects that are ready to be allocated for such and different advice. But we are talking about three million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u347	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 3. I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 6th Article of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of SLS mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u348	Thank you very much. In Article 6, we are talking about a tax relief for investments. I think that this is the best measure within this law and certainly a good measure. It has to be admitted. However, I would like, given that I estimate that we can achieve some breakthrough through this measure in the field of investment, which is crucial for getting new jobs, so that it would be wise to have this time, which is set here for 5 years, to extend it to 10 years. Therefore, this tax relief for investment in Pomour would apply for 10 years instead of 5 years. Of course, we will support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u349	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 8th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u350	Thank you for your word. Article 8 speaks of the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre in the Pomurska region. We propose that this article should be deleted, since we consider the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre in the Pomurska region, co-financed by national and cohesion funds of the state budget under the amount of €2 million, to be an additional waste of money because we already have educational institutions dealing with the education of workers and those on hold. This work should be coordinated by the Pomurje Development Agency, which is also established. Of course, these funds can further finance their work. We therefore propose that this Article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please, Mr. Pojibich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u352	The Honorable President. I too will gladly support this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I must say that we do not need this inter-enterprise education centre in the Pomurska region, according to my personal assessment, because we already have institutions at local and national level that can take this role. It seems very important to me to emphasise that throughout this government, Borut Pahor and this coalition are saying that it will reduce the number of public officials to reduce public administration. In this case, it has happened again that new civil servants are employed. So again, this coalition is talking one thing and it's doing another. And that's what I find unacceptable, inappropriate and irresponsible at the expense of poor Pomours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u353	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members, 28 to 54. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second round of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members, 83, against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on this point, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has drawn up a proposal for a decision to be considered by the National Assembly under this item on the agenda. Taking into account the Rules of Procedure and the previous Parliamentary practice of the National Assembly, in the framework of the examination of the draft law at the meeting the National Assembly cannot also consider the proposal for a second act, but such an act can be regarded as a separate item of the agenda. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Proposal for this Decision will not consider it today and will consider it at one of the following meetings if the Committee, as a motion for an act, puts the proposal into the procedure of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 169a and Article 169b of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. They continue to end the 26b agenda item - with the consideration of the candidate's proposal for a minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development is Dr. Henrik Gjerkš. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 30. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] The decision was adopted. I take it that Dr. Henrik Gjerkes is appointed Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. I congratulate the Minister of Government on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I ask the new Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u354	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strengths for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Is the minister trying to talk the choir? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking for a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u356	Dear Members and Members! Thank you for your trust. I will take these responsibilities seriously and vigorously, and I hope, in creative cooperation with all of you. Thank you very much again. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u357	What can I say? Shall I say peace in the hall or not? Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Representation of Unions. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the representativeness of trade unions is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. Mr. Zvonko Chernač, on behalf of the parliamentary group? I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. The word shall be given by Miran Potrč on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u358	Thank you very much. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. We've got the capital law for five years. In these five years, the law should address certain issues of interest to the functioning of the State, not just Ljubljana and Ljubljana, but especially its mayor, on the basis of direct arrangements between the Ljubljana Municipality and the Government. So far these rights have not been realized, and the law was a dead letter on paper. This is why it is proposed to supplement the concrete possibility of providing additional funds to the Municipality of Ljubljana on the basis of the found share in income for the fulfilment of the same tasks as already provided for in the Main City Act and represent current consumption. These funds are fixed, cannot be claimed to be made up, cannot be claimed to be changing from year to year, because they are newly identified every three years, they are not burdened by anyone else, but the share of the budget revenue in the account is falling 0.73% of the income, they are not to the detriment of anyone. When we adopt this law, we are more than well aware that the problem of local self-government has begun to be solved, far from being solved, especially not with regard to the financing of local communities in general and of the municipalities in general, but we are convinced that the fact that we fail to solve the problem as a whole would be bad if it prevented us from solving it at least in part. Let us, in part, help our capital with the proposal of this law and commit ourselves to continue as soon as possible and intensively as possible in addressing the other issues of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u360	The Slovenian Democratic Party, the law we have on the table, cannot support it. In yesterday's debate, it felt as if the Government owed Mr Jankovic something to him if he had been deprived of the funds that belonged to him in the past. Yesterday, the debate repeatedly argued that this was not true. This has been decided by the Constitutional Court unanimously. It did not support Mr Jankovic's remarks. The government or the state therefore owes nothing to Mr Jankovic. However, on 16 February this year, Mr Pahor, President of the Government, gave Mr Jankovic a public assurance that the funds for which he had allegedly been deprived would be reimbursed. We have witnessed this to some amendments when dealing with the balance sheet and other attempts to transfer assets from country to municipality. On 5 August this year, I addressed to the government the question of the cows of the government's trades with Mr Jankovic. I haven't received an answer until today. And in this law it is precisely this: for payment of pre-election services to Mr Jankovic, Mr Jankovic to the left troika, this time with tax money. No long-term vision of the city will be realized with changes to the law. For a few 10 million, we do not even know how much, since the law leaves open options, without restrictions, without criteria and without a call in Mr Jankovic's agreement with Mr Pahor, the enormous budget hole which Mr Jankovic has doubled over the next two years and no more will be reduced by a few 10 million. In addition, the change is unconstitutional, not systemic. It introduces inequality between the city’s municipalities and does not build on what was brought about by the Law on the Capital City, which was adopted in 2004. We all agree that Ljubljana has a specific status. The Slovenian Democratic Party is particularly aware of this, so at the Congress this year we adopted a resolution on the capital and put in place a number of measures and solutions that should or should be regulated precisely by the amendment of the Capital Act. If, in this amendment, at least some of these solutions allowing the realisation or elimination of those problems facing the capital today, and which, in truth, needs more resources, in particular the European means of modernising public transport, for a different arrangement of infrastructure conditions, if such solutions were needed in this amendment of the law, then the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would be pleased to support such changes. Of course, the changes we have today on the table cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u361	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 27. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item on the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on familiarity with the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, of 2 April 2009. I hereby announce that the SLS and SDS have announced obstruction. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. It's a day's work. Of course, I invite Members back to the Chamber, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is the parent of the working body and which has reported in writing to the assembly. There's no sign-up for dissipation. Since the mother's working body has not adopted any amendments in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It was 80 votes against no one. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE UK ON THE EXCHANGE AND THE INTER-PROVAL PROTECTION OF SECRET DATA. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is a defence proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on mediation in the defence area. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. It's on a manatee of love. Under this item, the Assembly will consider a proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission, a proposal for a decision appointing two members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternates of the Board of Inquiry. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Miriam Ravnikar Šurk as President of the State Audit Commission for a period of five years. The function will begin on 24.12.2009. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing two members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Supervisory Council of RTV Slovenia a member of Anton Horvatič and mag. Lenart Šetinc for the period until the end of the mandate of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia established in 2006. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am moving on to the consideration of the decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for hearings. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mojca Prelesnik to the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the National Council of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of public function holders who have participated in the preparation and implementation of investments and the leasing of rentals or other comparable transactions financed by the State budget or budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, in the area of the project of housing and the purchase of residential buildings and related garages or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects for the renovation and construction of the premises of the University of Primorsko, projects of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, projects of state importance, projects of public buildings, projects of public interest, projects of construction investments financed by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana and projects of construction investments in the field of so-called buildings and buildings in public buildings (the project of public interest). because of suspicion that the procedures and transactions were Please, peace in the hall! ... between each other politically agreed, led by non-transparent and non-economically and due to the suspicion of the presence of clientism, corruption and interconnections between the various operators of the activities and activities of the connected persons involved in the preparation, procurement and execution of construction works, and in this regard in particular to establish suspicion of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and their role in this regard. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. May I have peace in the hall? There are 79 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
