ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Alojz Posedel, Ljubo Germič, Janja Klasinc, Victory Jelinčič Tribal and Bogdan Barovic. I have seen Lord Noble here, but so it is said. I invited the President of the Government and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the State Council to the 20th and 21st items of the agenda, the Minister without a resource responsible for local self-government and regional development, mag. Zlato Plosteiner on the 26th item of the agenda, candidate for a Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Henrik Györkös on the 26th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 9th meeting. Ten. 2009 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 40 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Parliamentary Group is proposing to the National Assembly that the 10th meeting of the National Assembly withdraw the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act, the second being considered. You received the proposal by letter of 16. 10.2009. Would the representatives of the motions be willing to withdraw? They don't want to. Does a representative or a representative of the government want to speak as law-makers? [[They don't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please. Three minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, a warm welcome to all fellow Members of the Group, to all Members and to the President of the Government as well as to the representatives of the Government! Now, in this mandate, there is somehow a strange habit that we have to deal with a number of proposals that have been tabled in the legislative process. Thus we cannot continue with the Law on the State Council, because something unexpected has happened on the working body, we cannot consider the Ombudsman's Report because there have also been complications on the working body. On both working bodies, the coalition has a majority and we cannot prepare a report. In the legislative process, he also adopted a law regulating relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. Even in this working body, the coalition has a majority. And it's obvious that something in the way the coalition works doesn't work. Even in this case, when we have a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda, there has obviously been a complication on the committee, on the working body, because it has also occurred here that one of the coalition partners has put forward a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda, explaining that the solution in one of the articles is not the same as the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has tabled an amendment to this law and that article, which is now at issue, has not been supported by the coalition on a working body where it has a majority. And now the coalition notes that certain consequences could arise if such a solution were to be voted on. I must protest most strongly against such a way of working the coalition in this mandate, when, in particular, because of the uncontrolled internal relations within the coalition there is no decision-making, decisions on the working bodies and remain in the legislative process of law, some, perhaps even proposed by an urgent procedure. We in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not support this way of working of coalition parties in this mandate. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have also received a letter from the President of the Republic, who had great difficulties in signing one of the laws adopted in the National Assembly. For the law has retroactive consequences and a coalition majority, and perhaps someone else from the opposition, has also supported such a bill. However, I remind you of a practice that is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to point out that all the laws or acts referred to, if they were held in the National Assembly, will be processed, as the Rules of Procedure requires, and there is no doubt that we have already talked about this in college. The representative of the proposer would like a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act is not such an important law that, as has now been said, we should discuss. It was this or that certain matters should be examined and that the comments sent by the Legislative and Legal Service should also be taken into account. Thus, it is not some of the things that could lead to an assessment of the work of the coalition and the National Assembly in general, as it was established in the previous debate. I must also say that both findings concerning the two laws, where certain difficulties are to be made, have been presented in terms of presenting the work in the National Assembly as one where the coalition does not work. In doing so, it was silenced that we need a two-thirds majority in the State Council Act, which is the majority that the coalition itself cannot do, and where there has been a vote on whether and how to settle matters concerning the Council of State which requires such qualified size. Also, the report on the work of the Ombudsman - why is he not present at this meeting? Because the president of this committee, who comes from the SDS party, has prepared this, we have also said this to the College, an inadequate report and has not taken into account the findings and conclusions drawn by its Commission. In short, in both cases, there is still a very involved SDS party, and I must protest that the head of the Group of Affairs represents an inappropriate work of the National Assembly, but this is an explicit adjustment, if I say very domestically.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. A representative of the Group of Members, Mr Bojan Kontic, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Some of this has already been said by a colleague of Flowers Orazem. Today we are once again witnessing the desire to present the work of the coalition as uncoordinated, not to say superficially, but to point out that it is a matter of putting in place obstacles that are difficult to overcome, often or almost always for the creative participation of the opposition's largest parliamentary group. Despite all these complications, let me say that today we in the Group of Social Democrats will support the withdrawal proposal. Our goal is a quality, good law, that is, a profit, but not just a procedural procedure and the necessity of adoption at a particular meeting. However, when we talk about all these complications, I cannot help but avoid using a comparison, because this is now very often happening to us, as soon as it is possible for them to make procedural assessments of the work of the coalition, that they should do so again and again, either at the committees or at the meetings of the National Assembly. And let me use this comparison. It's like pushing someone down the stairs, asking him why he fell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr Tanko, you have already presented the position of the Group of Members. In accordance with Article 64, paragraph 10, the debate is not possible, so I cannot give you the floor. Does one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to explain their vote on this motion to withdraw? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Is she an extra proposer? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. You want procedural, Mr. Tanko? But just procedurally, you have to make a procedural proposal and please at the beginning. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u8	I would like to supplement or correct the particulars that have been made.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u9	Mr. Tanko, you can't do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u10	Procedural to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u11	You can't do that. It's a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u12	Because I have a right under the Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u13	I'm gonna have to take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u14	Mr President, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right, and every Member has the right to correct this in the event that there has been a misstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u15	This is a specific article setting out the views of the group on the withdrawal proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u16	That's why I want to say it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u17	And I won't let you do that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u18	The provisions of the honourable President, as regards the comment that has been made, say, at [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u19	Mr. Tanko [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u20	Report of the Ombudsman [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u21	I have to give you a first warning. That's the first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u22	I propose a procedural explanation, and then I will also make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u23	Please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u24	I would just like to clarify that the Commission has rejected more than 90 proposals for views on the Ombudsman's Report. Some suggestions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u25	Mr. Tanko, second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u26	The Ombudsman also proposed a coalition Member, all of which were rejected. [[...]] And that is why I propose, Madam President, that in cases where it is eccentric and you know this, it is a matter of misrepresentations from a Member who speaks these misrepresentations also be stopped. However, if you do not stop it, at least at the end of the day, state your proper explanation. In this case, you did the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u27	But I should have acted immediately, and I should have stopped you then. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u28	No, no, I had an explanation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u29	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u30	Mr President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u31	Are you done with the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u32	President-in-Office, I do not think that the status of the President of the National Assembly is meant to be controversial in this way with Members who have procedural proposals to say what the problem is in this point, and who also wish to be pointed out in the way of communication, by working in the National Assembly in this mandate. This, I think, is our right, because other options to express our position on concrete proposals do not, and we owe it to us under the Rules of Procedure, even this is allowed, to say this at a meeting of the National Assembly or at the working bodies. I would like to say that the discussions and comments made by members of the coalition do not hold. The Law on the State Council did not receive sufficient support on the working body, which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u33	Mr. Tanko, this is not an item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you so much for your kindness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u35	First of all, I would like to make it very clear that the status of the President of the National Assembly includes limiting Members and Members when they are clearly out of the agenda, which is why, of course, I am concluding this debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check your voting devices. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. I am moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by considering the Proposal for a Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015 in the framework of an urgent procedure. You received the proposal by letter of 16. Ten. 2009 Does the representative of the government want to speak as a proposal for a bill? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. First, Mr President, I would like you to open a circle for representatives of the groups of Members, because what you are doing is then opening new parliamentary debates for new groups that have not applied. That way, I don't think it's real. In fact, I must say that this bill, which we now have at our disposal, also says much about the government's perception of problems in certain segments of Slovenian society or in the Slovenian state, because the Government has taken care of all those who do not need such attention and are not at risk of life. Let's say it's about lawyers, it's about the status quo, and it's about the positions of judges. Prior to any regional problems at all, the Government introduced the Main Location Act, which regulates certain relations with the Municipality of Ljubljana and similar things. In short, all those with problems are last in their term of office. We can say that this bill will be supported, but we expected that the law would bring something new, but in fact it is a law that just sums up some of the solutions that are regulated in other laws and does not bring anything particularly new. At the same time, I would like to point out that Pomurje is not the only Slovenian problem, that there are many, including large areas that have even bigger problems like Pomurje in some of the smaller areas; for example, Kočevsko, where the unemployment rate is also, say, at least comparable to that of Pomurje, but this law does not regulate these problems. There are other problems such as Kočevsko in Slovenia. They are meeting with them, and it would be appropriate for the Government, if it had already come with an intervention law to address difficult economic conditions in certain areas, to arrange this for all these areas in one law. I don't think it's a good solution to solve this with partial laws and partial structures that will work these individual areas separately and in particular serve them somehow. I think it would be right to include in such a law areas, which are certainly due to the global situation, and especially because of the situation at home, are severely affected. We expect the Government, in this context, and also the coalition, to try to complement this law properly and to resolve problems in those environments that are both exempt from funding, through sectoral measures, sectoral measures. I think it's an ideal opportunity to do that now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. However, I must stress, given that there have been some comments on how to open a debate on these proposals for enlargement, I would like to inform you that I will hold a debate in this National Assembly and I am leading the debate as I think it is right and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask you not to comment on this in the future. Do other representatives of other parliamentary groups want to speak? Victory of Jelinčič Noblemeniti, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please. In so doing, I would like to point out that we have had the wrong information on the apology of Mr Yelinčič Noblenit for today. This apology shall apply to Wednesday. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support this law, including the enlargement of the agenda by this law, because we consider that the Pomur region is currently the most degraded region in Slovenia. It is true that the rest of the regions are not on a good level either, but in spite of everything, we have to help Pomuri here. It is interesting that at the same session we will talk about the law on the capital, which will receive €16 million just like that, in a beautiful way, while the Pomur region will get a little more here. I think that's bad. In order to save the Pomeranian region, we should also prepare a more concrete programme of action, not just one basic facility, unless the Government has something else hidden behind it somewhere else. That would be very nice, even though I don't believe that the government has any more concrete projects behind it, otherwise one would expect them to be listed here. Investing in the establishment of a regional economic centre, which will amount to about EUR 30 million, is too wide-ranging and seems to us or we are confident that some gentlemen will again be able to pump a lot of money from this centre, but there will be no concrete results here. Indeed, the establishment of some regional centres is in fact a reminder of the establishment of commissions. If you don't want this thing resolved, you're gonna set up a commission. If you want the economic indicators not to turn up, you're setting up a regional center that will coordinate some things. I think it would be more reasonable for the Ministry of the Economy to start dealing with specific issues and invest financial resources in specific matters. Also, when we are talking about the supply of drinking water to the Pomeranian region, it is important to know that the construction of these liquid hydropower plants is also very important here. After all, the soil in the Pomurska region has fallen so much that it is horrendous and threatens not only agriculture but also drinking water supply. That's why I think we need to work together here, but not that we're going to have one segment to deal with ourselves and the other segment to work on its own again. Nevertheless, we will confirm and support this, because something better than nothing, although I hope that it is only the beginning and continuation we are waiting on the part of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. We will certainly support this proposal. The Slovenian People's Party itself and the Slovenian People's Party welcome this law, although we still have a number of questions within this law and in general. Within this law we will propose a number of amendments, which are related to the very contents of this law, here I am thinking mainly to the unnecessary office that will open up, completely unnecessary, so that we will spend money needlessly. We have enough infrastructure in Pomure to implement this law. We will also provide for some control mechanisms that will not be spent on what is not necessary to be used to the greatest extent for so-called hard projects and not for soft projects, so not for papers, documentation, studies, expertise, where some those close to the bowl usually benefit the most. I believe that the drinking water supply project does not fall under this law; it is a self-sustaining project, which unfortunately this country has promised Pomurkam and Pomurci a third term. There is no way we can take a decisive step here to make this project happen, and we have a problem now. The project is in law and has no financial structure supported through budgets, which are also in parliamentary procedure. I feel like there's some sort of blurry about this project, too, which is not good. Finally, through the Ljubljana Act and also the Pomour Act, the problem appears in some ways that we have not yet established the provinces in Slovenia. In fact, there is likely to be another law about the White Land, Koroška, and so on and so forth. And we're always going to turn around on this fact that we haven't set up, formed, or anything else at all. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] local self-governments. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we will truly support the law on Pomur. We believe that it brings some quality progress, but above all we think it is an opportunity to talk not only about the developmental dilemmas of Pomurje, but about the development dilemmas in general. Indeed, the situation in Pomour shows how serious errors have been made in the past in certain cases that culminated at the time of the crisis. And interesting are some of the broader aspects when we think about this topic. Last but not least, it is interesting that Pomurje is the part of Slovenia where we have the greatest fragmentation, where we have the largest municipalities, the most small municipalities, and it is interesting how to make what we constantly claim to be a catalyst for development appear to be the opposite. Is it not unusual that there was no way to manage water supply, for it was simply impossible to conclude certain arrangements in such a fragmented environment? On the other hand, I think that what is happening to us in this segment is a reflection of fully imported regional policy in Slovenia. Last but not least, what we are funding from a variety of issues and where we are actually finding out that we are looking closely at financing things like these, including rural development, which do not bring new jobs. And these were projects that have been selected in recent years: bus stations, firehouses, sidewalks and similar things. None of this has produced results, has brought new jobs. Asphaltane are, of course, all fields and all roads, but it did not bring development. And not last. Pomurje is also the result of a fully imported agricultural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u43	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u44	Policy in Slovenia. [[...]] The mussel is grown and grown and predominates hybrid corn. But it is not the garden of Slovenia and is not used [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u45	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u46	geothermal energy that could bring what is a problem in Slovenia - self-sustainment. [[...]] It's not enough, and things have been pushing. Finally, maize is also the one that caused such soil pollution in Pomura, because it is essential to cultivate hybrid maize that there is a significant increase in the consumption of pesticides and herbicides. I hope that at this hearing we will also discuss such things and such mistakes that have been made in the past, in our view.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Please, peace in the hall. On behalf of the SD Group, Mr Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. The Social Democrats' Group will support and, of course, vote in favour of the Development Support Act of the Pomur Region. If now, before the debate on this law was opened, it would have been a broad and long debate, then I should have just said that in recent years there have been quite a lot of politicians flocking to Pomurje, but there has been no catchphrase of politicians in Pomurje - we call it so. Now it is for us, for our pomur region, that I would say, in a way, a historic event or a historical time to do something about this heart attack, which in Pomura at this moment, we are doing something. Let us take a step forward so that we can also pull this region out of that last place and there will be a restructuring of the economy. First, the restructuring of the economy over a long period of time and in order to provide the new jobs that are certainly necessary in Pomura. However, I must also admit that, at the expense of all these parameters that are in law, it is also necessary to say that, of course, halting the eviction from Pomurje is the goal that we must achieve in the long term. I appreciate that all those who think and who have already seen this law should give this law a green light today and also on Thursday, when we are actually discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the law with concrete action and no figs in our pocket, just as those who first criticised the Government for not doing anything. Today, when we have a concrete law that brings concrete resources to Pomurje, they say, "It's okay, but..." It's always but. When we hear this in life, we know that, of course, the purpose is not sincere. I am sure that the resources that come from the state budget in Pomurje will be usefully used, that it is good to trust the people who live there to take their own destiny into their own hands, as the problems that rule there in all areas are certainly best known. As far as agriculture is concerned, much could be said about the municipalities: a backward area, just with the many congregations that are a good host there, has achieved at least some solid progress and comparability with the rest of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to expand the agenda by proposing a law on development support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015 in the context of an urgent procedure. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. This meeting will consider this point to be the 16th point on Thursday, 22. Ten. 2009 Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended also by addressing the following two matters. A notice of withdrawal from the Magi. Zlate Plosteiner, Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development and the proposal for a candidate for a Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. You received the proposal by letter of 16. Ten. 2009 I propose that we discuss both proposals together and that we vote separately on each proposal. Does the Government's representative want a word as a motion for a case? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposals for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda with the notice of withdrawal of mags. Zlate Plosteiner, Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted by the National Assembly. The assembly will see this point as the 26th point, today 19. Ten. 2009 We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by proposing a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present for 67, against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. This meeting considered this point to be the 26th part of the agenda on Thursday, 22. 10.2009. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with amendments and updates received. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present, for 76, against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 10th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received within the time limit the written statements of 44 questions sent. Under this item, today three questions from members of the opposition and a question from the ruling coalition will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. Ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government will answer the question of Members and Members on Friday, 23. Ten. 2009 at 9 p.m. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to present the question. The President of the Government shall answer the question in no more than five minutes. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but does not have to ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. The response may be completed for a maximum of 3 minutes. The response may be completed for a maximum of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first question to the Prime Minister will be put by Zvonko Cernač, Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u52	The Honourable President of the Government. At the previous session, I asked you about the fulfillment of your promises. Many have accumulated in a year, so I was not alone in these matters. We have not heard concrete answers, regrettably: no matter what the new human rights paradigm or political recruitment or the human rights tsunami, no matter what concrete measures you have repeatedly promised the economy, no matter where you said at some point that the key decisions must take place in the first half of this year, no matter what visits you made to the regions where you said you would follow the practices of the former government, nor why you did not visit Mure, who is not anymore, despite repeated promises in April. Many Slovenians today wonder about your unfulfilled promises. And if your greatest success in the internal political field, as you yourself have expressed yourself, has almost doubled unemployment in a year, we are approaching 100,000 without work, does not help much, or do we take it as a cynicism of the worst kind, but because of your greatest success in the foreign policy field, it is regulating relations with Croatia, a lot of headaches, and you who put your hand in the fire for this proposal, you know, according to Dr. Buchar's predictions, without it. I am sure you will recall the assurance that the border with Croatia must be resolved before it enters the European Union and your promise that the practice of prior consultations of the presidents of the parties on Croatia will continue in this mandate, which is logical, as it is not wise to resolve questions that are not wisely addressed by voting. The proposal for an arbitration agreement has come to pass, in secret. Not only was there no prior consultation, but there was obviously no trust. And where are we today? On one of the most important issues is the ruling coalition before the fiasco, the Slovenian policy is divided and the government is determined to enforce inadequate solutions by voting. Obviously, however, it does not hope to take responsibility for the fiasco, so individual ministers themselves are predicting a referendum on an arbitration agreement. You have recently even stated that your arbitration agreement provides us with contact with Slovenian territorial waters with the open sea, which is not the case. All unfulfilled promises make the public's confidence in the government wane. It is at the lowest point in the history of the country, which according to the economic situation is bad. The Honorable President. So I'm asking you: Do you think the Slovenians still trust you? Do you think they still believe you? What, in particular, will you do to restore the lost confidence of the public in the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u54	Your Honor. Just as I do not doubt the sincerity of your concern for the fulfillment of the promises made by the Government, which I am leading, neither do you doubt the genuine willingness and commitment of this government to meet them in its best interests within the framework of the opportunities it is giving this time. There was no human resources tsunami. I think that we are on track to introduce a new human resources paradigm, and I have repeatedly said that not without problems and without problems. But with such important changes as we are now witnessing to them, this can be expected. The control councils are starting to do their work, of course, under pressure from the lobby, the groups and so on. This is normal speeding in democratic societies. Some therefore also have laws on lobbying, but they are no longer subject to political bargaining. We have established a Human Resources Accreditation Council, candidates are going through this assessment, ministers are also deciding on the basis of this assessment. This is some kind of good and useful instrument that we have introduced into the new and will certainly fall within the standard. You mentioned specific projects to help the economy. We've accepted them this year. I think it's more than 65. These were the result of the assessment of what is best for us to practically help the economy at this very difficult time. I said here in the inaugural speech that I do not want to blame the government for the crisis because it is not responsible, the crisis is global. But also be honest and tell us that you have left us some things as an inheritance, which we also have to solve in an extremely sensitive time of crisis, which is not easy. For example, if I mention here a collective contract for the public sector, which has made the state of public finances significantly worse, it is now necessary to have a social dialogue - I promise - to resolve this issue. You mentioned regionalization. I think it is just before the expert council comes to the government with a proposal of the provinces and I submit to the National Assembly or the Government a law on the establishment of the provinces, we will soon decide on three developmental provinces. But I know it will be very difficult here to form a consensus that this is the most optimal solution. You mentioned visits in the region. It's true, I wanted to start them earlier. The demands of work required my full presence here, but this morning we were discussing a plan for the future. Even the previous government did not start immediately with them. That's how we're gonna start. Tomorrow I am going to Mursko Sobota, where we will particularly talk about the law on Pomurje, so we also hear some critical comments - today we already have some on this law - and if they make sense, we will certainly take them into account. You mentioned Mura. The wall isn't flooded. Her health has remained. There is a chance that at the heart of a company that has failed in recent years or decades to develop a development model of its own, it will set up a company that will once again be one of the most important companies in the region, and it is clear to the Government and also to all of you that we need to multiply development centres there, not only to bet on one company and we are trying to do so. You mentioned Croatia, not least, because I know that colleague Jelinčič will then raise this question once again, and we will return to it. Let me just say that I consider the possibility of signing an arbitration agreement with Croatia to be the greatest success of Slovenia if this signature occurs. This is my position, I have the right to stand behind it, with great honesty and full responsibility, and I also accept this responsibility before this high assembly. For 18 years, I have been following this country's efforts to resolve the conflict and it has failed. We have the best paper in front of us so this can be arranged. You're asking about people's trust. I did not expect confidence in the government and in our work to be very high, but not just because of the crisis, it was simply necessary to settle some things that had not been settled before. I think the government is doing its best. If I thought he was working recklessly, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] If people are not concerned about not worrying about those who are most affected, then you would probably consider whether it is not appropriate to ask the National Assembly or not as the one who trusts the mandate, that [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, would you like to complete the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u56	Dear President! I understand you're not answering the questions we're asking you. Look, I asked you what you would do specifically to restore the lost confidence of the public in the government? And I must say, you didn't convince anyone with what you said. No one who has heard this will ever trust you more because you've said a lot of things that we've heard and they don't. I asked you about Mura about your promise, which was made in April, repeatedly to visit this factory, which is gone, not about Mura in general, after the first holiday. That didn't happen. I asked you about the government's visits because you predicted good practice. Except for Ljubljana, you did not visit any region during the first year of your term. I asked you about the tsunami, where you keep repeating how it didn't happen, knowing that you've changed everything that's been practically replaced: from all levels of public administration, through public agencies, parastatal institutions, public companies, institutions, funds, Kada, Soda, Darsa, Luke Koper, Triglav Insurance, railways, some even more times. Some of the political personnel that were set up were not good for part of your option or for colleagues in the government and you have replaced them even more than once. The man who was elected as a Member and should be sitting here, you have placed yourself in the position of the main bank and so on. About the crying. This dialogue has been going on for a long time since 2002, and there was another government. And you were one of the few governments that broke this dialogue, so you also filed an intervention law, and now you're still talking, but at that point in time. 10. This social dialogue has been interrupted. Last time I had a feeling you wanted to talk about what we were asking you to talk about in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, then, members of the coalition and your parties did not vote in favour of this debate, but voted against it. Since I will resubmit a procedural proposal after this reply, I would like to know whether you support me in this. And I would also like you to answer these questions specifically, which I have asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u58	Well, Commissioner, you should have already allowed me to answer the way I think it is right; just as I do not interfere with your right to ask questions like you think you can. Here the Secretary-General has written to me that more than 3,000 legal persons are publicly owned; your counter, to which I have no doubt it is correct, shows 141 replacements. You're saying I haven't answered your question about what the government or I will personally do to restore people's trust. We will continue to try to do what we think is in the public interest and not for the benefit of this or one party or an individual in the government. All our efforts, not only are they not necessarily successful, as are the efforts of every government, but they are not always well understood or are not immediately showing good results. We do some things forward and backward to the best of our ability. In time, I believe that this government will prove to be not only part of the task it has received, but that it will be trusted for the next term. I'd like to tell you that I'm trying to keep my promises as much as possible. You said you promised to go to Mura. I promised to go to Mura with some sort of solution. We've been looking for her for more time than any government has ever looked for her. Then I went to Mura the day that probably all politics was the hardest, and I went because I felt it was right to speak openly to people and so I would work for the future. You mentioned social dialogue. This social dialogue runs more than it has, I think, ever since. I do not now have accurate information on the number of consultations, meetings and other ways in which we try to coordinate important things, but also in one of the answers later I will try to explain how we are going to move this thing forward. So this government has a clear vision: we want to bring Slovenia into a circle of highly developed countries over this time of crisis, we want to increase competitiveness while, at the same time, I must say, we also want to maintain solidarity. If this were to break down at the beginning of the crisis, probably minimal support for the structural changes we are now planning to implement would not be available. It will be difficult, it will be very difficult on the documents that speak [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on structural changes, the seal is "politically dangerous". [[...]] I am aware of this danger, but I will make the promise I made that we will also take measures that are not necessarily popular, and then politically cost me what I want. I don't have a problem with that. I am doing this job conscious of my responsibility and will continue to do so. I listen to the criticisms, if they're good, I try to take them into account, if I think they go beyond the facts, I miss them too - and what they go for. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I've never touched the freedom of the press. [[...]] Unfortunately, I have a promise, about trying to put the most capable people in the most responsible cities, here are the promises that are crucial to making Slovenia one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. On the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general debate be held on the response of the President of the Government in this Assembly. It's not about whether you win or lose the election. The last time you found out you were going to lose them, today you realize you're going to get them. The truth is, the voters will decide. It is about Slovenia being in crisis, economic, social and social crisis. Very deep. It seems that almost everyone is aware of this, that they are aware of it in the economy, that workers are aware of it, that even the unions have realized that the workers have overlooked it. And that is also fully understood by the opposition. It seems that this is not the only government that is aware of, that is, the ruling policy. In such situations we would need a broad political consensus, cooperation with the opposition, but there was no offer despite your public promise. More! When we offered ourselves to participate in the search for common solutions, we were rejected. When we proposed 67 concrete measures in April and wanted to implement them at the May meeting of the National Assembly, we were completely rejected. Of course, more than ever before, we would need a government that enjoys public confidence. Because of many unfulfilled or broken promises, the President of the Government also lost a good part of his credibility. I would return it if I didn't repeat what I'm repeating today: there was no human tsunami, we didn't replace any, and so on, but at least the government would respect the court's decisions. The unlawfully resolved Vitoslav Türk was the same day as the government received a judgment from the court that it should be returned, re-appointed. Trust has also fallen because the Prime Minister of the Government has not dismissed a minister who lies, deceives and manipulates the public and who, through "kaselc companies" whose co-founder is, avoids paying taxes in Slovenia. The credibility of the Government has fallen from this heading. Even today's answers do not show that the President of the Government would be concerned about these things and about this enormous decline in public confidence. In order to play their part, the KAS said that the President-in-Chief of KAS, Mr Kovac, would cover political decisions. That's not what I'm saying. That's what he's talking about. The KAS are covering for what is going on politically in the background, that is probably clear to the blind. We are all obviously wrong about Croatia: the opposition, 95% of the professional public, only the Prime Minister and the President of the country are right. With regard to the economic crisis, where the point is most sensitive, I have had to nibble from your memorandum of graphs that are horrifying. In two years, the debt and the enormous decline in economic growth in this year has doubled. I think these are the answers that we should discuss in the National Assembly and I feel that you want to discuss this, which is why I do not understand why you do not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 7th or 15th agenda, no later than half an hour after the end of the last item. A question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Jakob Presečnik, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and other representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The social situation of Slovenian citizens and citizens is deteriorating from day to day, as some statistics also confirm. Unemployment is expected to rise to 10.9% in 2010, to about 105,000 unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia. The prospects for economic growth and recovery are not the best, and consequently deepening or at least prolonging the agony of the most affected segments of the population can be expected in the next few years. And how does the Slovenian population react? Saving. Data from Ummarje say that households will significantly reduce their spending expenditure in response to the increased risk of losing their jobs and resulting income. And how does the Slovenian government react? However, because of the economic crisis, it proposes some austerity measures - but which ones? First of all, by means of an intervention law, it interferes with the coordination of transfers between individuals and households, this means in the area of the socially weakest segment of the population. So the government will obviously save the state budget by non-coordinated social transfers. Let me list some of these for a better performance: children's allowance, large family allowance, parental allowance, social assistance, unemployment allowance, disability allowance, scholarships and so on. The second area you propose and where we will save the state budget are young families and children. The co-financing measure of 50% for a child who has reached the age of 5 years is postponed by one year. In your explanation for the law, you say that without these two measures, there will be serious disruptions to the sustainability of public finances. It is understandable, Prime Minister, that if the bag is empty, there is nowhere to take it, as you say. But in the Slovenian People's Party we ask you: Why is it always empty for some, and for others this same bag is always full enough every time? You raise the salaries of judges, you increase the budget line of expenditure on goods and services by 5% to 914 million euros, the sub-item of office and general material by 20% from 115 million to 139 million. And where your government saves - of course where it's easiest: on families, children and socially endangered segments of the population, i.e. those who defend themselves most. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Why has the government decided to stabilise public finances at the expense and burden of the most vulnerable and affected segments of the population?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u64	I do, however, have a reply below, Mr President, prepared a reply in such a way that it will also be supported by numbers. But first, let me tell you this. Some view that this government is the most concerned and especially concerned about those who have been least affected by the crisis is the wrong view. It's legitimate, someone can say it, but the government is fighting for it and trying to help those most affected by the crisis. Allow me to say that this is why we are subject to criticism. Those who believe that a balance between solidarity and competitiveness should be put in place differently than at the moment, point out that the country is now committed to social transfers, for other measures to mitigate the social burdens of the weak too much and not too little. Social security is therefore among the priorities for this Government, although I, like many of you, realize that if we do not have a competitive competitive competitive economy, which will have jobs in 5 and 10 years, it will not be possible to guarantee this social security in the long term. See budget 2010, 2011. I think that we have done so by taking into account the fact that the revenues to the budget due to the reduction of economic activity were substantially lower, but we are not abolishing any of the rights acquired. Co-financing of parental payments for children. Those who have reached the age of 5 are the rights of universal nature, which will be enjoyed by all parents whose children will be over 3 years old by 2014, regardless of their social or material situation. As a result of the generally known situation, the Government has assessed that this right is restricted by intervention law for only one year. In this regard, it is of particular importance that, under the law, socially disadvantaged families are granted a complete exemption from payment for kindergarten. In addition, this school year already has a more favourable price for the implementation of the State grant. A new legislation on employment and unemployment insurance is being drawn up, including an increase in the minimum monetary compensation, as well as more favourable conditions for obtaining monetary compensation for young people. In the middle of this year, Member of Parliament, a law on a special allowance for the socially disadvantaged has been adopted, allowing the payment of a single monetary allowance to some 125,000 socially weak people. So, all of this I think it shows that your claims are largely not true. The government is closely monitoring the situation of those who are socially disadvantaged and who are trying to help them. With regard to your assessment of your performance on the high growth of expenditure on goods and services, but only a brief explanation. These are not only the material costs of ministries, as anyone would have thought, but also expenditure on development projects is planned within this item. Nevertheless, the Government will still scrutinise and examine what can be done to save itself in these extremely acute situations by giving the budget, as expenditure, everything that means either comfort or comfort for people in the public administration or in the public sector, which will ultimately service the needs of citizens and citizens who pay taxes, and will try to give these resources to development challenges. As soon as we deal with the budget, we will see that we have tried to do this in a way that, for 2010 and 2011, in the budget on account of the social rights already acquired, we will not be saving, we will try to do so in the options that will - for the following year, according to macroeconomic forecasts, the growth rate will be around 1% - to manoeuvre by encouraging those who are already economically successful and new businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. President, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President. At the beginning of the answer, you said that in the second part, if it came to it - and obviously - you would also serve with some data. I agree with you that you do not abolish any right in these measures. However, the fact is that all these rights acquired, also legally accepted, are being suspended. You're late for a year, you're late for a year and a half and so on. And all these rights, as I said in the introduction, are the rights that the most endangered segments of the population have. That's a fact. And as Prime Minister, you have a pair of scissors and a canvas in your hands. You have all the levers in your hands to help with this layer in particular. And to help businesses and workers all over Slovenia properly, especially those most affected by the crisis and need concrete help and guidance for the future and immediately. Just in case, let me ask you one more question: What can you offer a worker or a worker, for example 53 years of age or older, with a low education that has lost her job and possibly lives in a part of Slovenia where there are no new jobs, with the forecast of further growth in unemployment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Comrade Presecnik, additional questions are not allowed to be asked, only a proposal must be proposed and the answer should be supplemented. The President of the Government will assess whether he will answer the additional question or not. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u68	I turned to the Minister for Social Affairs and Labour and asked him whether it was possible to say in such a short time what the Government had done or prepared for next year, but since there were discussions about this in the National Assembly, the laws were tabled or coming on the agenda, there would be an opportunity to discuss this. But here I have data on the rate of poverty, without taking into account the income in nature, for the last four years, without this year, which is now running and data of course cannot be. From this data we can see that in 2005 we had a level of 12,1 later 11,7, 11,5, and in 2008 12.3. I want to say that, according to the expectations that Umar and other institutions can give right now, because of the measures taken by the Government, because it insists on social transfers or even gives different incentives, at the same time, we can promise levels of poverty despite the increased unemployment and despite the fact that it was here to be heard that we are boasting about the thing that sounds cynical, this rate, that is, the threshold of poverty, that it will not cover significantly more people than it did at the time we were in the conjuncture. I still believe that Slovenia, as an open and very vulnerable economy, is a small economy dependent on export orders, with the fact that we have a level of unemployment, which, at the rate of unemployment between the EU countries, is fourth in line, that we have some success. While I am aware that if the stagnation after the rapid fall of gross domestic debt product is, we will have problems with structural use, unemployment. The answer to your question, briefly, is, an active employment policy, I think in the budget Minister, how much money is provided in the budget in active policy that I will not lie? [[...]] 110 million euros. So, I think the Government has decided to try an active employment policy in one smart way, a prudent way to approach the problem you are asking in the long term, Mr Preseknik. However, I have no doubt that you will make a request for a debate on this issue, but the National Assembly will decide whether or not the other legislative initiatives that we give to Parliament do not allow sufficient time and a suitable way to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I think the Prime Minister would be disappointed if he didn't, because he's alone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u71	That's how I understood it, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u72	I myself have offered this option, and therefore, on the basis of Article 246, paragraph 2, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to the financial and economic crisis and the social dimension of the crisis and the possibilities for resolving this problem. [[...]] For reasons, of course, I agree with many of your answers, but I assume that Slovenia still has a great deal of potential in the area of European funds, and I think there will be an opportunity in the coming days and in the next period for us to pour pure wine here on this issue. We estimate that it would be possible from the development resources for the regions, in our firm belief, to provide at least 10,000 new jobs. This is also one of the things that must be well implemented and well reviewed and enhanced in this area. Therefore, as I have already said in the introduction, I propose a debate in accordance with Article 246. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jakob Preseknik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today on the vote half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! I'm asking the Prime Minister: How or by what reason does it justify views towards Croatia in view of the complete ignorance of history, geography and law by Slovenian legal and political circles? The man has a feeling that you don't want to, in the government, you don't want to take into account historical and legal facts that are indisputable. The Slovenian National Party is, in fact, in the same positions as Professor Dr. Franc Bučar, for the first time, that the historical integrity of Primorska is from Vršič to the last island in Kvarner and has never been divided internationally into the publishing measures of DEMOS. Second time Slovenia is 25. 6. 1991 separated from Yugoslavia and not Croatia. There was no Croatia at the time of disengagement, but Yugoslavia was because Croatia declared its independence only 8. Ten. 1991. We therefore point out that the line or the line of separation must be determined according to the line or boundary at the time of the 1918 merger. And for the third time, in accordance with every law, all customs, as well as common sense, it is for each State to immediately bring back to itself what it brought into the common country at the time of its merger, and for all the other things that have been created together, to negotiate separately. And the state-of-the-art positions that Dr. Bučar sums up and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not even want to hear, but is mocking from Dr. Bučar's point of view, these state-of-the-art positions stem from the fact that we have been alerting the Slovenian National Party since independence. The fact is that we also point out the guilt and incompetence of the DEMOS government, which in the very beginning did not take into account Bučar's advice, or which ordered it to reach out to Istria during the war of independence and to ensure the integrity of the Slovenian territory. So, Mr. Prime Minister: Where did such views come from in the Slovenian government? Why such views: Did the Croats squeeze you by the neck with this, with that, third or maybe with money, the European Union or the United States of America? Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u75	Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u76	In order to preserve, Comrade Jelinčič, the trust between us, I will hear your final comment on the reasons why I am doing what I am doing. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly will have to decide sooner or later whether or not it wants to resolve the border issue with Croatia. In doing so, please bear in mind the fact that both states, we in the National Assembly and Croatia in the Assembly, need a two-thirds majority, a two-thirds majority. The Committee for the Ratification of Any Agreement Governing the Border Issue shall, in order to ratify the Accession Treaty. So how hard is it to settle the border issue? Very hard. Do we now have an opportunity with this arbitration agreement? We have a lot for both countries, including our great opportunity. If it were as simple as many of my critics believe that this arbitration agreement is a sale of national interests to Croatia, it would embrace it and sign it already. The problem is that there are also many in the Croatian Parliament who think it is wrong that Article 3b of the Arbitration Agreement lays down the task of an arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenian territorial waters with international waters and that they also have a set of problems there, which raises the question again, whether the Croatian Parliament will finally succeed in ratifying this agreement by a two-thirds majority. I am prepared to establish my authority, my knowledge, the reputation that remains, I know that the subject is a fall of trust, including a decision that is very sovereign and very determined to go forward with the signing of this agreement, if on the other hand there are such authority, including for me, moral and political, such as Dr. Bučar. Just be careful, and I agreed with him almost even when it came to foreign political decisions, even in the Spanish compromise, we were a lonely rider when most felt that we should move on, but this time we did not. If I don't quote him wrong and beg with all due respect to Professor Buchar. He says, yesterday, if I understand Sunday correctly, it's better to stay the way it is, than to resolve the conflict between the countries. Firstly, let us continue to block Croatia's entry into the European Union, leaving the entire eastern wing of our neighbourhood in a state that is neither good nor good for security, nor for economic reasons, nor for other reasons. I don't think it's a good thing for us to have an interest, that this area is safe, developed. Come in. Are we gonna take the incident route every year? I hope this isn't our vision. Should he stay the way he is? Where is our country's police boat in the Gulf of Piranha? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's right, that's right. [[...]] I don't think that's right because we had the principle of uti posidetis. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u77	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u78	Uti posidetis and we monitored the entire Piran Bay with the Slovenian police. [[...]] Almost the entire Piran Bay with the Slovenian police in the time before the conquest. Finally, it will be clear how difficult it will be to deal with this issue, a single piece of information. Comrade Jelinčič, if we cannot agree in this high house, what is the cut-off date for setting a border, if we are not all of the same on this fundamental issue, that it is 25. 6. 1991. You say no. The average date is 1918. Then it is very difficult to believe that, without all debates and debates and debates, this issue can be addressed well. My proposal is to sign this agreement. The problems will also, of course, be on the other hand, and I have a mandate to do so and I am willing to risk interpolation either against me or against the government for this. If an agreement goes through this High National Assembly, let it go to a referendum in front of the people and let them decide the fate of this important issue. But once the Slovenian policy has to decide whether we want to settle this issue or not. The answer is that we now have not only a great opportunity to settle this in a way that will be just, because the principle of fairness is summed up in the text of the arbitration agreement or we leave the matter open and leave this issue open for political and other conflicts at home and between neighbours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u79	Would you like to complete Mr. Jelinčič's reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, when you said where the Slovenian boat is, the police, I can answer, in the middle of the Bay of Piran. But I'm going on with the question. Where do Croatian cops go with their boat for coffee? Piran. I mean, I've said everything and I wonder, Mr. Prime Minister: Whose prime minister are you? Who do you want to solve this border issue? For the benefit of Slovenia or for Croatia? You seem to prefer Croatian problems, because you say you have to solve something on your nose. I insist on what Professor Bucar said, and our opinion in the party is the same. We must never sign an arbitration agreement, because then we've concreted everything. It's better not to sign this and open things up in other forums. Not to be subjected to the Croats. The Croats still brought us down. You've been hit, too. Like I said. As soon as you opened and closed 11 chapters, they said, fine, we don't need you anymore. At least for a while. Until they put you back on thin ice. You can't forget it's 25. 6. Only for us a relevant date, and neither is this because Croatia has violated the agreement at least four times with official notes, and under international law this agreement does not apply because there is no interstate agreement. Croatia was not a single country at the time, but they cheated on us, the foolish Demos government, who did not understand anything, because Croatia did not become independent until October 8th of that year. And in earlier times, Croats were part of the Yugoslav Federation - SFRJ. Therefore, they also allowed JLA to strike from Croatia, because otherwise, they could sue Croatia for aggression against Slovenia. That is why once again, Mr. Prime Minister: Which side are you on? And: Will you take into account historical and legal facts?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u82	Mr Member, you have every right to ask me this question, but I also have the right to answer it unrelentingly. That is why I am here; so almost a year ago I also swore here; that I defend our national interests - and that is what I am doing. Let me ask you: If the situation remains the way it is and it is better than to settle it fairly, because the principle of fairness is not "ex aequo et bono" but, as I said, subsumed in the arbitration agreement, it requires that historical circumstances be taken into account and that other relevant circumstances are already taken into account in the preamble. Then I ask you: Will we let "ad calenda graecas" remain the border crossing of Plonij where it is?Oh, my God! So that the police boat will be in the middle of the Gulf of Piran, in spite of the principle of "ute posidetis", that at other points of the state border, in our opinion, there would be disputed border controls where we consider that the Slovenian territory is?Oh, my God! No! No! We now have the opportunity to determine this by an arbitral tribunal or as provided for in the arbitration agreement - with a bilateral agreement. I don't think it's wise to leave things the way they are. Unless there's someone here who's substantially changed his mind. Because I have heard a number of views for years that the border issue must be resolved before Croatia enters the European Union. Now, it is our national interest to block Croatia from going to the European Union until the border issue is resolved. Then I ask you what proposal will be the one that will be acceptable to you to resolve the border issue before Croatia enters the European Union. But if there has been a change of attitude here, then also this legitimate position, of course. And the National Assembly will seek a new solution to this border issue. Only I understood that Slovenian policy wants to resolve the border issue before Croatia enters the European Union, so I have worked and obtained some results that are solid. Soliden, Comrade Jelinčič, Member of the National Assembly. And with regard to the explanation of Croatia's date, I have it written here, but it seems to me that we would now go into legal details, which are therefore not essential for this discussion. So, my opinion is that we need to consult thoroughly on how to move things forward. So if the Croatian parties, as you say, were excited about how we failed our exam in preparing this agreement, then we would jump across the border and sign this agreement immediately. Of course, this does not happen because our neighbours have a problem with this arbitration agreement. And we and they will have problems, and now we have to decide whether we're going to deepen our problems or whether we're going to try to solve them. I suggest we try to save them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Does he want procedural? Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u84	I propose, in the second paragraph of Article 246, that the National Assembly vote to hold the debate. Because it is necessary to know that the Croats are never enough. And Croatia will never land until they actually apply what Mr Tudjman said at the outset, that Croatia has a border with Austria and that Croatia has a border with Italy. Slovenia was simply erased and denied. That's what you don't know, Mr. President. You're talking about a just way. A fair way for who? Certainly not for Slovenia if we lose our identity and our national territory. We started talking about the Gulf of Piran because the Croatian side, through its intelligence services, introduced this thinking into Slovenian, I would say, narrow, closed, planned political heads. We should talk about the border of Slovenian territory, which actually is. It's in the river. The river is the water at the river. That's it, but we don't know that. When you talk about Plenia, of course, what needs to be done. The first thing that should have been done long ago, even before, is to reclassify this border crossing point or temporary checkpoint as recorded in the papers to be reclassified from international to interstate. But you will not, because this matter will now be irrelevant under this arbitration agreement of yours, because the situation will be resolved. Influenced state of 25. 6. What does that mean, we know. That the Croats were evacuating us. And it's not true that things can't be settled for a long time. The border dispute between Italy and France lasted 35 years and a little longer, while both countries in the EEC and both countries in the NATO Pact have been able to resolve so much of the time, since it is necessary to be aware that with the entry of any country into the EU borders do not fall, borders exist. And we need to discuss the border issue in a different way and separately and on the basis of other facts. What does that mean? This means that we must not sign this agreement, for with this agreement we will close our doors to a large extent. According to our lawyers as we have them, we've already lost everything today. Because these lawyers - such bad international lawyers, if they were chosen, the worst, in the Horn of Africa, would not find so bad, so uneducated and so indifferent and so few patriotic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 15th agenda. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much, President. You should protest first, but because it's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to do that right now. In the last year, we have also heard from political competitors in this Chamber that there is no crisis. Today they say they were talking about recession. Why treat the disease with antibiotics if it takes aspirin? It's a crisis. Why isn't the government acting? Government action, but measures are neither appropriate nor timely. To avoid assessments of the heritage that we have received and in which there have been quite a few financial uncovered legal obligations, the extent of the problems we have encountered is the result of the delay in structural changes needed to increase our competitiveness. The programme budget, which is ready for the next two years, and above all the forecasts of some major structural changes show that the government has a properly oriented compass, but there is still a question: What is Slovenia's vision in the future and what structural reforms do you expect to be followed on the one hand by the Lisbon Strategy and, on the other hand, stay within the Maastricht criteria, follow the commitments of the Kyoto Agreement and, more importantly, preserve the social state friendly to citizens? I'm sure it's also an interesting question: What is the government's strategy to make up for the backlog in the area of added value to the employee? And: In what way will the Government take action to reduce wage burdens, which to many entrepreneurs as well as larger companies represent a great burden on maintaining competitiveness in such an open economy as Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u88	The leader of the parliamentary group comes from the same party as the president, usually everyone suspects, and this is, of course, justified by the fact that this issue is agreed upon. Although the issue that embarrasses every government at this moment, which is in a similar situation to that of Slovenia, could also be raised by the opposition. What's this all about? We are in a situation where we have substantially reduced revenue in the state budget and we do not want to cut down substantially on the human rights acquired in order to ensure social stability, not because people are dissatisfied with the government and therefore the government will fall. No one here, once again, has a problem with my perception of the desire to lead the government. I want to keep her as long as I think we can do something good for Slovenia. It's nice work, but it's too hard for a man to do it one more day than it takes to do it. Good. Well, let's see. Under such circumstances, the Government is deciding on structural reforms, and when we talk about reducing confidence and reducing popularity, we need to be aware of what this means. If we look at the first 100 days of my government and for the first 100 days of Obama's administration, we could see that we relatively soon, with our moves, brought some confidence or popularity to some expected level in these circumstances, while the US administration succeeded, because it basically drew the likes of moves, at first to have an extremely high popularity, the moment when health reforms were under way, was halved by popularity and confidence in this administration. I am willing to continue to risk this popularity and trust, even though I know that without people believing in what the Prime Minister and the Government are doing, it is hard to do without it. But first, I must be sure that what I am doing is as well as what I am doing in foreign policy. I think it is right that we go to four areas of reform to go to urgent institutional adjustments in the area of governance of public institutions, let's say we go to the establishment of a public agency for the management of state-owned enterprises, a public fund for the immovable property of the State, strengthening the supervision of financial services, transforming the competition office into an independent institution, and amending the Law on the Institution. Secondly, to promote entrepreneurship, competitiveness, transparency of the labour market, because we want to connect the multitude of implementing institutions that we now have into an effective system, especially financial assistance for development programmes and small and medium-sized enterprises. Third time. We want structural adjustments in transport and energy infrastructure and for all of this legislative initiatives are ready, some are already ready, some are already in public debate. I'm not talking about plans. I'm talking about what's actually going on. As you said, Member, for an effective environmental and climate policy, where we want to significantly increase efficiency in putting transport and energy infrastructure into space and taking environmental and climate impacts into account. And lastly, this is very important, even when it comes to this high house, Mr President, it will be very turbulent and, also, the adjustment of the social security and health care system, where, in addition to the changes in pension and health legislation, we also anticipate a change in the system of monetary benefits to materially threatened and the unification of the application of certain transfers and subsidies. I know that these are all very sensitive discussions and I think the unions have already announced a protest meeting some Saturday towards the end of October, which is the end of October, which is fine and expected. I did not doubt when the government would come with a draft pension reform, first modernisation and then reform, the unions would raise their voices. But we have taken the voice of trade unions into account when preparing this legislation, as far as possible. We want to consult on this within the Economic and Social Council, we want to consult with them within the institution of development dialogue, the opposition is also invited to this debate, we want to find appropriate solutions. I had a meeting with the employers last time. Employers question whether 65 years of age is the right way to address the problem that we have to make fewer and fewer employees work for more and more pensioners. There may be some compromise solutions here, but let's find them at the round table. We have a clear vision of what we want to do. The government behind these acts stands, as I said, on the first day, not necessarily with much popularity. And I'll try to make sure that there's trust. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. This concludes this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Please. Of course, the agenda item has already been interrupted. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. I am glad that the Prime Minister of the Government has calmed down in this last reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u91	Mr. Tanko, this is a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u92	I'll tell you all the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u93	Please don't comment on the behavior of other people. Please contact me with a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u94	We can also, let me introduce you, accept an invitation to participate in the design of the reform package when it is. But here's what I'm proposing. The Secretary-General of the Government did not provide us with absent ministers for this meeting, for arrangements on parliamentary matters. It is also unclear whether Mr Žbogar will be present at the meeting of the National Assembly on Friday or not. And now he hasn't been to five consecutive sessions and we have nine unanswered questions, three more at this meeting. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we amend the order in which the items are dealt with. We also give the opportunity to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is here today, to answer the six questions that have been raised since April and also to answer these three questions that are on the agenda for this meeting of the National Assembly. I think this proposal is more than justifiable. And we are not, nor should the National Assembly be in the interest of having such a large absence from the Minister for Foreign Affairs - at the last five sessions he was not and was not responsible. I propose that, now that it is here, we change the order of treatment of the item and give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions that are outdated and also the three that are to be answered at this meeting of the National Assembly. If we had a list that Mr Secretary-General had been obliged to draw up and, given that he was very expedient in his work, we would have expected this list already at the College of the President of the National Assembly. However, because this is not the case and because it makes no sense for us to leave these things open also further, I propose that we vote on whether to give the floor to the Foreign Minister, Mr Žbogar, at this point, to answer these 9 questions that are envisaged at this meeting of the National Assembly. It concerns questions from April to September when it was not at the meetings. I think it is at least right to expect such an opportunity to be offered by the Government itself, without the Members demanding it. But since that is not the case, I suggest we vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u95	Dear Mr Tanko, it is clear who sets the agenda for the meetings of the National Assembly and for the meetings of the National Assembly. I cannot put your proposal to the vote because it is not in accordance with 65. [[?]] the Article of the Rules of Procedure, as this point is already open and is only interrupted and running, is already open. We cannot discuss it, the presentation, the delay and the movement. As we agreed at the meeting of the College, the President of the Government answered the questions raised to him. This time ministers will answer for the amendment on Friday, and the power to allocate points within the National Assembly's timetable is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly, and I will not change that. Thank you very much. I'm not putting this to a vote, I'll tell you again. Procedurally, please, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. Then I suggest we at least get an answer whether the honourable Minister will be absent on Friday at the meeting of the National Assembly and will answer whether or not he will be officially absent. Let's at least get that information. The Secretary-General of the Government did not provide this, and neither did the Minister. In the media, however, we read that it is likely that Mr Minister will not be at the meeting of the National Assembly on Friday and I suggest that the Secretary-General of the Government at least answer this question on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u97	Comrade Tanko, the minister won't answer that question, there's no way he's gonna answer that. I expect the Secretary-General to present to us, as soon as possible by Wednesday, a list of ministers present on Friday on the questions to be raised by them. Thank you very much. We move on to the 26th A DOT OF THE DAY - NOTIFICATION OF THE MAG DISTRIBUTION. The Golden Square, the Ministry without the resources, responsible for local self-government and regional development. On 15 October 2009, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, informed me that he was a mag. Zlata Plosteiner, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, resigned from the post of Minister. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is a mag. Golden Plosteiner ceased her post as Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 240(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mag. Golden Plosteiner, I thank you for your cooperation and I wish her the best in her work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC CONCERNING, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u98	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Given that this is a second consideration of the law and you have already met with it at first reading, only the key points, which are four. The first part of the amendments to the Act is intended to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, which allows and requires that a foreign legal person or a foreigner, under the same conditions as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, may organise public meetings. Then there were three other highlights. One relates to the removal of bureaucratic or administrative barriers. The members shall allow for easier and faster registration, authorisation of a meeting or an event. This is a faster and more efficient implementation. Further changes are intended to ensure greater security at public gatherings, especially in those parts that have also led to some tragic epilogues in recent years, namely nightclubs and discotheques. This also entails increasing responsibility for the organisation and extension of the commitment circle, which is obliged to organise a compulsory security service. We are also convinced that the legislative process has contributed to some decisions, even on the last committee that have improved the law, so we propose to the National Assembly that the amendment be supported. At the same time, because of the importance of the law and the fact that we do not already have a consolidated text with regard to the 2005 amendment in order to adopt and produce a consolidated text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Collections was considered by the Committee at its 9th session. Ten. 2009 The proponent is the government. Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments to Articles 2 and 7 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and to Article 3 of the SDS Task Force were tabled within the time limit. The members of the Committee were invited to the meeting of the drafters, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council of the State. Representative of the proposed mags. Klemenczyk said something about what we had just heard. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The members and members of the Committee referred to Article 3 of the draft law and to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. According to the proposed provision of Article 3, a new application is required for sports events and for members of second and third league clubs in the collective sports sectors. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 2 and 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Tadej Slapnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u102	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government. The proposal for a law relates to two essential amendments, namely, the law being amended in the first part in order to comply urgently with the Council of Europe Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, whereby a foreign legal person or a foreign natural person may, under the same conditions, organise or declare a public meeting or event. Furthermore, the second part of the amendments seeks to ensure greater security at public gatherings, particularly in public gatherings that are most sensitive from a security point of view. For example, when it comes to public gatherings related to live music, discotheques, nightclubs, and even when it comes to certain security-threatening sports events. We are all aware of the tragic events we have encountered in the past, and that is why the conditions in terms of those organisers who are committed to organising a compulsory private security service in organising such events are the most acute. The draft law also provides for the possibility of monitoring and authorising police action in the event of a large number of public assembly participants who exceed the capacity of the venue. The fines for the most serious violations of the law are also harmonised, according to comparable offences laid down in other laws. In the Group of Members, we really welcome the proposaler's decision not to oppose the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, which we have adopted on the working body. This will not further burden the organisers of those sports events which in practice do not represent security-prone events. We caution, however, that also a wide range of sports sectors in the first league do not pose high security risks. For this reason, after one year of implementation of the Law, we will examine again in the Parliamentary Group whether it is necessary to separate individual sports sectors in the first league, or whether we will support the proposal for a new law in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u104	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Public Assembly. With regard to public events and public meetings, where a large number of persons are usually gathered, I should first point out that it is the primary duty of the State to ensure such measures that do not endanger the life and health of participants and others who do not endanger property, public transport and do not burden the environment. In this light, the current law on public gatherings is now in force, but as the Ministry of the Interior has determined on the basis of the analysis, this law needs to be remedied, in particular in terms of ensuring a higher level of security for persons and property at events with a high level of risk to human life and health. In line with this, a more detailed definition of the obligation to ensure order at public events with security personnel is proposed. This is mainly about the management of activities such as: the operation of discotheques, nightclubs, where there is a significant increase in the likelihood of violations of public order and peace. There is also the possibility of police supervision at those public gatherings that go beyond the capacity of the venue, as this in itself constitutes an increase in the risk. We all remember the Lipa case, where the organiser has not sufficiently taken care of the safety and health of the participants. In short, the proposed amendments allow more effective control of organised public gatherings, and thus, more importantly, greater safety for human life and health. Therefore, the DeSUS Members will contribute to the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please. Excuse me, Mr. Fish, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Collections contains quite a few amendments that we agree with in the Slovenian National Party Group. This is a more detailed definition of the debtors who are required to ensure the maintenance of order at events with security guards. Due to a significantly higher level of risk to the safety of life and the health of participants in the conduct of activities such as the operation of discotheques and nightclubs, the novel provides for an obligation for organisers to ensure the protection of such events also in accordance with the rules governing private protection. The organisers of such events are therefore obliged to ensure the maintenance of order with the security personnel trained in the protection of public gatherings. That is, on the basis of a contract concluded with an entity carrying out a private security activity. In view of the fact that that activity can also be carried out outside the inn establishment, i.e. without the provision of catering services, and that it can also be carried out by other legal entities, in order to extend the compulsory provision of security services to those organisers who regularly carry out such events under other leisure activities. However, the range of debtors extends to companies and other organisations that carry out such activities. In addition to this, the organisers shall also be required to indicate the person responsible for the maintenance of the order at the event as Head of the event. Since the law in force so far has not clearly defined when it can be considered that the organisation of public events can be carried out on a regular basis, we welcome a more precise definition by supplementing Article 4, which defines when companies and independent entrepreneurs, individuals or societies or other organisations that organise public events in their business premises are considered to carry out this as their regular activity. We support the determination of the possibility that the licence already granted should also be revoked orally when it is found that it is necessary measures in the public interest. The novelty also provides for additional powers of the police to ensure greater safety of life and health for participants and others. In particular, it is intended to ensure the safety of participants where the excessive number of people in the event area in itself represents an increase in the risk to the life and health of participants and the organiser cannot therefore ensure adequate maintenance of order. Such addition will give the police additional authority to require the event manager to prevent further access to the venue or to ensure that the number of participants is reduced to the capacity of the venue. If it assesses that public order or life and the health of the participants are already at risk at the event, the police may also require the leader to dissolve the meeting or the event if the leader fails to comply with the police's requirements. In view of the fact that the amendments to the law are aimed at ensuring greater security for people at public gatherings, we will support the amendment of the Law on Public Collections in question in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Collections is essentially a technical novelty which brings in line with the Council of Europe Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life and lays down individual specific administrative rules for the issuance of public meetings, in particular with regard to the participation of third parties in the enforcement, decision and revocation process. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we support the possibility that a foreign legal person or a foreigner will be able to organize a public meeting or event under the same conditions as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. The Novela also eliminates the non-compliance with the General and Administrative Procedure Act, in particular with the provisions relating to the time limits for the execution of individual acts in the procedure. It will also make it easier to exercise the constitutional right to peaceful assembly. Members of the Slovenian People's Party in particular support the objective of the bill, which is reflected in the desire to ensure greater security in public gatherings. I am talking about situations where there is a significantly higher level of risk to the safety of participants and when there are too many participants in the event area. For such cases, the novel provides for the possibility of monitoring and the power to act by the police. The Committee also had a controversy on this bill, in fact, only one point, concerning sports events or membership competitions, clubs, second and third leagues, in collective sports sectors, which were to be reported after the new one. This is not supposed to be a complex application process, but it is said to be done free of charge and even via the E-Government website. This solution has been amended with an amendment and we will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u110	Well, hello, all of you! Of course, welcome to the government! We will, of course, support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber, because it is a second reading and we believe that there have been no significant changes since the first hearing until today. Of course, the Public Assembly Act must, inter alia, be aligned with the Council of Europe Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life, in particular to enable European Union citizens to gather or organise this. However, this is mainly about significantly improving safety in public places, ensuring greater security for participants at this meeting. In some ways, however, this law also regulates the acquisition of individual permits for various gatherings, which also makes it easier to proceed. At the final stage, we are also changing the law in the sense of fines or penalties from tolar to euro because it is a law that has received first reading support. Of course, in the second reading, we will also support this law within liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anton Kolarič, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collections. As has been said, several times in the introduction, my colleagues said that changes to the law were necessary in order to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life and at local level. The aim of the law is also to ensure greater security at public gatherings, particularly where there is a significantly higher level of risk to the safety of participants. Therefore, a range of insurers is also being extended to ensure the maintenance of order at security events in accordance with the rules governing private protection. In short, I will not repeat for my colleagues, the Group of Social Democrats will support amendments to the law. The goal of all of us together is greater security and, of course, the harmonisation of the law with the new thinking resulting from everyday practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State. In 2006, the Ministry of the Interior carried out a re-examination of the implementation of the law as part of an action to remove administrative barriers, on the basis of a request to re-examine the need for public collection permits. This analysis at the time showed that the implementation of the Law on Public Collections with Amendments represents considerable rationalisation and removal of administrative obstacles to the organisation of public meetings. By dividing the powers between the police and the administrative unit, a decommissioning of administrative units was achieved at that time, which, pending the entry into force of the law, also accepted applications for public meetings. The main objective of today's amendment to the Public Assembly Act is to comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, which means that a foreigner can then organise a meeting under the same conditions as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or an EU citizen. The proposal for a new law sets out in more detail those who are required to ensure the maintenance of order at events with security guards, followed by ensuring the safety of life and the health of the participants at the events. The amendment lays down specific rules of administrative procedure for the resolution of individual procedural issues concerning the right of third parties to participate. In order to ensure the safety of life and health of the participants of the event, it is important to provide for the possibility of monitoring and powers of action of the police in the event of a large number of participants in public gatherings exceeding the capacity of the venue. With the amendment of the law, the proposer wanted to extend the obligation to apply for public events also to sports events of clubs which are not in the first sport league, namely to membership competitions in collective sports industries specifically defined by law, basketball, football, small football, handball, volleyball, beach volleyball, ice hockey and so on. With the amendment of the law, the proposer thus wanted to equalise these sports events. We have therefore proposed an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in relation to the above-mentioned proposal to maintain the current regime and to exempt this obligation to apply for competitions organised by sports clubs not in the first league and, for example, in the third league. We believe that these are low-budget clubs and also, in fact, teams operating on a voluntary basis. Such an obligation to apply would put an administrative and additional financial burden on them and consequently lead to their termination. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such a proposal as the drafter of the law would have made life very difficult for all those involved in these projects, especially at the level of the third league. These sports clubs are also very difficult, especially today, when faced with a financial and economic crisis, they find a sponsor when everyone in companies cuts costs. We are also all aware in this respect that it is certainly a genuine vital interest for young people to engage in sport and not other activities that lead to different addictions and are therefore very problematic. We are therefore pleased that our amendment has been adopted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which preserves the current regime and thus excludes the obligation to apply for competitions organised by sports clubs not in the first league and, for example, in the third league, and at the same time follows the ultimate objective of ensuring the safety and health of people at these events. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposed solutions brought by the amendments to the Law on Public Assembly, together with the amendment adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law on amendments to the arms law, within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Goran Klemenčič State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u116	Presidents, honourable Members and Members. This is an expert and technically demanding law that is primarily changed due to the need to transpose the European acquis into our legal order, namely the European Directive on the Control, Purchase and Possession of Weapons, which requires, inter alia, that we also include among the prohibited weapons manufactured from any essential component of the arms originating from illicit trade and a new weapon produced without the prescribed markings. It specifies exactly how a newly manufactured weapon must be labelled and what is considered to be illicit manufacture and trade in weapons. As it is said, this directive introduces the amendment of the law into the Slovenian legal order. Among other innovations, however, I would like to stress only the key, which is a novelty, which I expect is that there will be a debate that the air weapons will be more impactive, as it were said at home, with kinetic energy on the mouth of a pipe more than 20 J or with the speed of a gun on the mouth of a tube 200 m/s or more, which was now accessible to everyone on condition that they are 12 years old. It's still there. With this change that this weapon, which is said to be relatively strong, will require notification to the administrative unit. The new law also provides more effective control over the collection of weapons of category a and, more importantly, the amendment of the law requires that by 2014, all arms dealers will be able to switch to the computerised management of regulated records of weapons, records that will be traceable and accessible to the competent authorities. There are also increasing fines for the possession or possession of weapons without possession of an arms document. The real common part of the change is that the situation and control of weapons is slightly exacerbated. However, the last key change is that the law introduces a third, so-called third legalisation of weapons. What does that mean? Individuals who possess weapons without relevant documents will be allowed by law to legalise such weapons after the adoption of the law within three months, of course under certain conditions, if they are fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the arms law at its 9th session. Ten. 2009 Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Council of State or its Commission for State regulation. During the course of business, we received amendments from coalition parliamentary groups of 24 and 25. 9. 2009, amendment to Article 13 of 29. 9. 2009 and Amendment to Article 27, tabled 24. 9. 2009, which was 25th. 9. withdrawn and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors of 25. 9. Corrigendum to the amendment to Article 5 of 30. 9. 2009 Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Rule of Law and the Council of the State took part in the meeting. Of course, the proponents or State Secretary Klemenčič said what we had just heard in an extended form. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, drew attention to some inconsistencies in the law, which, in her view, the amendments to the coalition cover. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Council of State or its Commission, which supports the bill. The discussion on individual articles set out the reasons for the submission of amendments to the SDS parliamentary group amending the legal basis in the text relating to air weapons. At its final stage, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 12, 13, 27, 28, 32, 38 and 40. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2, 5 and 23 and 39. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 7, 8, 13, 15, 16, 33, 35, 36 and 39 have become irrelevant as a result of the non-admission of the amendment to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the law, including amendments, and adopted them. The law in such form is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u120	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the amendments to the arms law. The purpose of the legal provisions is to regulate the social areas to which they relate. Thus, the aim of the Arms Act is to regulate the rights and obligations of persons relating to weapons, with the primary aim of protecting the lives, health and safety of people and public order. Members of the DeSUS are of the opinion that the existing arms law is properly regulated, but only a good legal basis for the safe handling of weapons is not enough to prevent accidents caused by the use of weapons. Accidents are and are likely to happen, but to our delight this number is declining. Last year, there were 6 injuries with firearms, while the year before that was 13. Also in June of this year, we witnessed a tragedy when a child shot his peer in the middle of an accident during a game of firearms. To avoid such and similar accidents, it is our duty to formulate and adopt such regulations as may be most restrictive. In this light is the creation of a novel of the basic law that we now have before us. The main reason is to adapt our legislation to the guidelines of the EU Directive as the deadline for its implementation expires next year. The proposal, however, includes, after our assessment, an appropriate amendment to those provisions relating to the areas of protection of human life and health. This suggested a clearer definition of the powers of the police or internal affairs inspectorate with regard to the control of arms trafficking, the establishment of computer record-keeping by traders and the connection of those with the central computer, the notification of air weapons, the publication of the list of military and semi-automatic weapons. The proposal also foresees the third legalisation of weapons, the first possible in 2001 and the second in 2004 and 2005. Members of the DeSUS were initially not inclined to do so, but we changed our minds in the re-examination. The legalisation of weapons also contributes to greater security in this area. How? The owner of the legal weapon will be recorded and this is already a step towards greater security. In addition, the owner of the legal weapon will be adequately trained and also motivated to use and store his weapons properly. On the contrary, if the state tightens the conditions for the acquisition of weapons, it does not prevent access to weapons, but indirectly creates conditions for the acquisition of illegal, untested, dangerous weapons that are available on the black market. This certainly does not help to achieve a purpose for which the law is essentially burdensome. Members of the DeSUS will, as has already been said, endorse the amendment to the arms law unanimously with a view to ensuring greater security in the field of weapons management by natural persons. However, as part of the Group's position, I should point out that the proposed amendment by the opposition, whose solutions have already been argued against at the working body's meeting, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u122	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the amendments and additions to the Weapons Act, as it is a matter of transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order. We believe that this is a fairly professional law, and we have decided to trust the profession and the content they have prepared. Above all, we are pleased to have a central record, with which all arms and ammunition dealers will be computerised. The supervisory authorities will thus have access to traders' records and will allow for the traceability of weapons from its origin to the end-user. In this regard, we support the re-legislative option of weapons held by individuals without appropriate authorisation. It is right to clearly determine what a prohibited weapon is and how a newly manufactured weapon should be marked. We also agree with the publication of a list of military automatic and semi-automatic weapons that are allowed to be collected, thus simplifying the procedures for granting authorisation for the purchase of collectors and marketing authorisations for traders of these weapons. The Committee had the most controversy about air weapons, which so far had been accessible to all individuals on condition that they were at least 18 years of age. A notification of such weapons is now in place. In the hope that the notification process is not endlessly complicated and that we are not talking about an excessive financial burden, we also support this solution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. After all, air weapons are also weapons. And given the development of technology, we believe that this weapon can also have great breakthrough power and serious consequences in the event of an accident. Otherwise, notifying such weapons alone will not protect anyone from an accident, but we feel that it is better to take one step further on the road to security. That is why we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Weapons Act in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you so much for your word and a nice day. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, we do have a number of professional comments that might be good to take into account on another occasion in any new amendment. If we take Article 3, we're talking about which special equipment is prohibited for weapons. And here we're talking, say, with extensions intended exclusively for the installation of the silencer. There's not a segment missing here, let's say a sound breaker. These are two very different matters. One works as in English silencer, for ammunition, which is subsonic speed, the sound breaker is for ammunition that has supersonic velocity and is significantly different. That's what we're going to let the real thugs do, and we're not going to ban the chokers. In Article 8a, it is necessary, as far as documentation is concerned, to simplify matters. The arms books themselves are a very complicated matter, much too much space is being used, while all of this could be stated on one side or on two sides of the same book. If we take, for example, Article 9 is questionable when it says that an individual collector will have to allow a policeman to check his collection. But we can't just let every cop in there, which means a traffic cop can come in, and he says, "Now I'm going to check it out." And according to the law, it is. In Article 10, it would be possible to write a little differently, because it is difficult to say which ammunition or weapon is no longer produced. It's made of virtually all weapons. It's true that the police or the military don't use it anymore, but the ammunition is like it was in 1898, like 9 millimetres of parabelum or something like that, or 7.43 for mauser and stuff like that. That's why it's a little different here. We should fix it. At the end of the luga was made in 1908 and used the same ammunition as the 92F 9 parabelum, which was thus made early yesterday. It is questionable, though, what will happen to the ammunition that is yet to be developed or that has been developed recently, such as a.10.4 - millimeter pistol. It's not exactly described either. Article 10 also states that the Commission will identify the fulfilment of the conditions for the listing of weapons. However, the Commission is not established. It says that he will be appointed by the minister, I think it would make sense for not only the police to participate in this committee, which is the biggest mistake, as with us the cops write laws, so the laws are often unconstitutional, and it would make sense for this to be rectified. If we take Article 12, we are talking about illicit weapons production and ammunition without proper permission. Here I think that we should somehow write and link to article 40a, because who is the one who will grant the permit and what does this mean: does this mean that the actual production of the ammunition or this means the subsequent completion of the ammunition or so-called reloading, when the old, used legumes are reused for the manufacture or completion of the specified ammunition? It can also be a special ammunition, such as the rifle's bullets cut, shorter and then made from them a gun for special forms of competition shooting, such as shooting a mile away or a mile away. That's essentially more than a mile, a mile and a half. Article 40a states that a trader authorised to engage in the production of ammunition may produce and so on. This is a nonconsistency that I have already mentioned in accordance with Article 12. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I think it would make sense to complete this matter, but perhaps even in the 80th article also to allow the possibility of a renewed deadline for the legalisation of weapons. [[...]] Croatia renews such legalisations every so long and always collects a considerable amount of weapons, especially when hand bombs and ammunition are also counted among weapons. I think it's just hand grenades and what mines are the most [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A dangerous matter, and it would make sense, perhaps another time, because now is not the time. [[...]] Otherwise, we'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u126	Nicely greeted. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the law amending and supplementing the arms law because it is a matter of compliance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, we do not support the amendment to Article 13 of the Law. The proposed limitation of the kinetic energy of the tube in the mouth is considered by the profession to represent the lower limit of the power of the weapon which does not yet allow for lethal gunshot wounds that have already occurred in practice. The strict conditions for the acquisition of an air weapon exceeding the speed of an aircraft over 200 m per second cannot negatively affect the sport in Slovenia. In the Olympic and neo-Olympic sports discipline, biathlon and so on, a type of long-term and short-term firearms, where the limits of power are stricter than the proposed limit on air weapons, is used. According to the Slovenian Sagittarius, weapons are actually used in all sports disciplines, up to a maximum speed of 180 meters per second. This does not limit sports shooting in our country, since sportsmen already possess weapons based on a weapon, possession permit or a notification sheet. Air weapons with greater power than those provided for in Article 2 of the bill do not, nor does it prohibit, require such weapons to be recorded and, for those reasons, the holders must meet certain conditions for possession.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. The arms law can be amended and supplemented into three sets. The first set of provisions, namely the harmonisation of the arms law with Directive 2008/51 of the European Union, which more specifically regulates the control, acquisition and possession of weapons in Europe, sets out the list of prohibited weapons as to how new weapons should be labelled, defines what is illicit trade and production with weapons and ammunition. The second set is complementary and is intended to control the implementation of the law and the implementation of the provisions of the Arms Act with other Slovenian legislation, which was adopted after the last amendment of the Arms Act and to eliminate certain uncertainties that have arisen in the implementation of the Arms Act. And a third set that allows the acquisition of an appropriate weapons charter to individuals possessing weapons without the relevant documents. The Group of Social Democrats will support such a change in the law. However, we will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which is once again proposing an amendment, which we have already discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and, after discussion, rejected by reason of the fact that this is a sensitive professional issue and is such a weapon, although intended primarily for sport, can also be dangerous. An air weapon that reaches kinetic power over 20 joules on the mouth of the firing tube and the speed of the missile over 200 meters per second is dangerous and could cause serious injuries in non-sports purposes. If the fundamental principle of the law is registration, traceability and trafficking in arms, there is no reason why this should not also apply to weapons which are essentially intended for sport. By this definition of arms traffic control, including sports weapons, we do not prevent the development of sport. Any weapon, including the air rifles that people have for their entertainment, can be dangerous. Accidents can happen. Air weapons with higher pressure and consequently higher speeds are so much more. Slovenian legislation provides quite simply for the acquisition of relevant instruments allowing the possession and possession of weapons, especially when these weapons are intended for sport or hunting. However, it is appropriate for holders of 20 joules of sports weapons to obtain relevant documents under Article 39 of the Amendment Act. The law requires the arms dealer to keep the relevant records established and maintained in the central registry and, with this authorised authority, to have access to those records to be regulated by 2014. By amending the arms law, the bill has for the third time enabled individuals possessing weapons without relevant documents to legalise and obtain relevant documents without penalty. Let us hope that the holders of such weapons will accept this and acquire the relevant charters and, of course, allow appropriate control of these weapons. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the arms law. But we will not support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u130	Respectable. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. I am asking a question that has been asked all the time at the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy: What in God's name did Slovenian sports, including those that achieve the greatest success? Only the answer to that question would we want. We didn't get it at the meeting. At the meeting, on the proposal of the SDS, which was successful this time because one part of the coalition listened to him, we deleted notifications from all collective sports, even for the third and for the second league. And now this law was confirmed in such a form. This means that it has avoided an extremely harmful situation. In fact, if you know about sports, when you know they are competing, in your own words, children at the village level among themselves would cause consequences, which have led to a lot of formal work and also a lot of costs. And the SDS amendment; which was adopted, it prevented it, and to all those who voted in favour of that amendment, I would sincerely thank you. I would ask you to listen on behalf of Slovenian sport once again to the argument given when it comes to the issue of this border, which is obviously so controversial for you. I would warn you that this whole story is based on two big untruths, so I won't use any worse terms that were on the government side today. Firstly, it is only a matter of coordination with the European Directive. The European Directive does not regulate border matters in relation to air weapons at all. That's not basically how he's holding it. What is more interesting and which you will certainly be interested in, as it is also in the role of parliamentary control over the work of the Government, is the following. The key statement, which apparently convinced you all, by the Secretary of State at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, was: "...in view of this we have coordinated with the Strells Association" and later once again stated: "The law was fully aligned with the Sagittarius Association of Slovenia.".. I have a magnetogram here. If anyone wants to, they can check those statements. Surely no one will deny them either, for you were all present at the meeting. On the other hand, I have something that was just transmitted to me by the Gorjani Stralski društvo, which they had already addressed to the Sagittarius protest days ago that they disagreed with the proposed amendments and asked them to explain how, with this claim, this was fully aligned with the Sagittarius Slovenija. And what is Mr Jožet Ribič's answer, pardon, Secretary of the Sagittarius of Slovenia, I quote only the first sentence: "The amendment of the arms law The Sagittarius Association of Slovenia has not aligned itself with the proposaler." Ladies and gentlemen. Now, good morning! This is said not to be the case in this part. There may have been some individual phone calls and conversations, but this is not formal coordination between clubs and the Sagittarius and the Sagittarius connection as a whole with the ministry. Why is this line really real? Because in most of the shooting sports we have in Slovenia, which would remind you that Slovenia is also achieving extraordinary success at world level, the speed of the rocket is about 200 meters per second, which is actually also covered by this law. But there are disciplines, including Olympic disciplines, such as field target or field [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] where air weapons are used, which is a little bit more powerful, it's not about not knowing how much difference there is so that someone wouldn't mix it with some of the data you've been operating with, but it's about 50 meters away, which requires 36 joules of power. And that's all we've proposed to be included in the law in order to change this border. You all know that those who are outside this limit or beyond that limit, wherever it is placed, will have to meet certain conditions, do exams, I don't know what else will happen, according to the law, that will follow. And, of course, this in practice means that young people will no longer choose to do so. It's a sport issue, it's not about not knowing anything else. And if there's no mass in any sport, then out of that too, there will be no quality. And because of this, of course, these sports clubs are indignant and ask not to destroy any discipline that is only in the making, but has some very hardworking people and also good staff, and that this limit should move accordingly. However, as it is in Slovenia with the implementation of this law, perhaps later, because the present time unfortunately does not allow it in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law before us is primarily about the transposition of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation, namely the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 amending the Council Directive on the control of procurement and the transfer of arms. This sets out more precisely the list of prohibited weapons as to how new weapons should be labelled. It also identifies what is considered to be illicit arms trade and production. The prohibited weapon shall include a weapon manufactured from any essential component of the weapon originating from an illicit trade and a new weapon produced without the prescribed markings. It is further specified how a new weapon must be marked or which data must be found on the weapon or on its essential components. The concepts of illicit production and arms trade are also defined. The bill creates a legal basis for the establishment of computer records for arms and ammunition traders and central records of the management of the competent ministry. Furthermore, a re-legislative option for arms transferred by individuals without relevant documents is envisaged, namely a time limit for lodging an application for an appropriate arms document to be limited to three months after the law has been enforced. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2009 Amendment to Article 13 and the first amendment to Article 39. The amendments are substantively linked. Since the amendments are linked, I shall put Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13 and Article 39 and the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39 into discussion. Check-in, please! Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you. I'll just keep going where I ended up. It's interesting that there's no reaction. In the normal world, if it is found that something, some claim was not true or completely unrealistic, this is usually the question of interpretation against the minister. Clearly, this will not happen in Slovenia. But I don't think it grew on the Secretary of State's lawn either, because we've all been to a meeting, we've seen that there was Mr. Vukko sitting there, and that in fact he was suggesting probably all these claims that were not real. I'm asking you why you're undermining Slovenian sport with the untruths. That's all this is about. It's a question of athletes. We are not talking about the fact that weapons are really a little bit more powerful, although even with that, I'm pretty sure, we're overreacting. For those of you who may feel otherwise, some comparisons. The RPG 500 Smith and Wesson, also used for hunting, has about 3,000 joules. The most powerful missile in the world from an air rifle is about 200 joules. That's saying, it doesn't reach a tenth of that power. Then the missiles we're talking about, which are used exclusively for sport, are ten times lower. This is said to be about 36 joules out there, and it's completely incompatible with each other. The distances are also incomparable. With a high-quality hunting rifle, you can shoot no more than 100 meters away, except for a mile away. But you can't shoot more than 50, 60 meters away with the best air rifle, because then you don't hit anything with it. That's what all the athletes who do this professionally say, and I have no reason not to believe them. It is only a question of why under the cover of greater security here is destroyed one new emerging shooting species, which is even an Olympic discipline. That's what they're asking me at the clubs, that's what my colleagues in Schenchure have asked me, that's what I triggered on the board, but I didn't get an answer. The answer was that everything is 100% consistent with the Sagittarius. Then I told the clubs, to all those who contacted me. Some turned to the Sagittarius. I read you the answer from the Arrow Association. Maybe there was a phone that asked someone what they thought, but there was no formal coordination, and at least with clubs that are developing new disciplines. And you are convinced that this means the flood of those disciplines, regardless of even the Olympic disciplines. As far as accidents are concerned. It is certainly our common goal to ensure that weapons are handled as closely as possible under a certain security rule, but I warn you that this is being manipulated strongly. Let me tell you a few cases that I've experienced myself, and I can testify about them anywhere I need to. About a time ago, in the White Landscape, where I often find myself, because I have a wife from there, in the middle of the white day at the main road, I met a man who had a kalashnikov in his hands, and I checked that she was loaded and then went to the village during the run. Later, when I came to Chernobyl, I stopped because there was a police patrol there, and I told them what I saw, and they just asked me, "Was that the one in the neighborhood?" I said, "There, yeah." They said, you know, and then we're not gonna do anything. Hello! And apparently it was an undeclared firearms. But that was automatic, firepower, military power, which is completely incomparable to what we're talking about today. Another case. In Slovenia, there is obviously not enough control over those who have these firearms, which are actually a threat. You all know that a former JLA officer committed a serious crime in Ljubljana years ago, although everyone knew that a man had a problem with alcohol and something else and that it was a man who was not very loyal to the Slovenian country at the time of his independence. And he had a military-grade weapon at home, and he abused it. He had it legally, as far as I know. Another such case was a recent case in Ljubljana, when also someone who was known by the entire community to have alcohol problems could legally possess a gun. In this case, however, it is the athletes you deny them the possibility of developing one discipline with air weapons that is uncomparably less powerful. The vast majority of abuse actually occurs with short arms. And this vast majority, the vast majority of these abuses, are linked to illegal weapons. This also needs to be made very clear. Some fear, as well as some caring concern, at least to make people safer, we are certainly all still confident and people have every right to do so. Each of us who has children, and I have them, is certainly the first to be interested in keeping his children safe. But these things need to be set up rationally. At the same time, there may be only one proposal for all, but from any authority, current or future, which will certainly be different from the current one, one proposal to actually harmonise the issue of weapons at European level in full. You need to know that there are incredible differences in the European Union now, and in our legislation there are extraordinary stupidities. As far as I know, we are the only ones in the world who have under the same ban a larger pocket foot and a multi-value military rocket launcher. This is under absolute ban in our country. As far as I know, there is no country. On the other hand, there are such differences in the EU that in some country you have a completely free sale of certain types of firearms, but it is completely free, and Schengen, and you can go there, buy and bring them here, only then you're in trouble if they find it. On the other hand, in our country it is so drastic that it is now interfering even with the right to air weapons, even those that are intended for sport alone and exclusively. On the other hand, given that this is already the principle, as an interesting thing, that in France, as far as it is known, the country subsidises the purchase of silencers and sound breakers for any type of weapon, including firearms. This is completely forbidden in our country. Why? Because their first goal is to give them the advantage that these people use as little of the environment as possible to avoid making excessive noise or in nature. And even less those who do it sportingly to disturb the environment in carrying out their activities. And the state subsidizes, I repeat, not only allows the purchase of various silencers and sound developers. This is completely prohibited in our country, although those who are solely and exclusively for use in certain types of air weapons could, in my view, be allowed to do so peacefully. Because it's just a question of who's going to get on their nerves and again the question of athletes and what they're exposed to and how much they decide to do. I firmly believe that the first objective that should be in this country is to develop and support Slovenian sport as much as possible, taking into account all the security aspects that are available. But that means when we talk about security aspects, that things are being put to good use. In practice, such a provision will not mean that those kids who would possibly abuse an aircraft will not be able to reach it. No, no, no, no, no!? Shall I tell you what the story's all about? In Austria, in the first neighbour, or Croatia, which will soon be a member of the EU, the sale of air weapons is without any restrictions, as it has been in Slovenia so far. That's what it's gonna say, all anyone really wants to do is drive across the border, bring it here and end the story. The only thing that's going to result is the effect on sports, because this is what you're doing in public. And there it is, of course, you can't come to the shooting range with a hidden rifle and compete with it. You have to have legal licenses for her. This means that only them will really be affected by an unrealistic border that is wrongly placed and which in this part was not in line with the Sagittarius Association of Slovenia, at least not entirely, I will say again, a telephone call or something like that does not mean that this was coordinated within the Sagittarius connection, between clubs, at the official level with the Government. This letter, which I quote again, clearly bears witness, is signed by the Secretary of the Sagittarius Association of Slovenia: "The amendment of the Weapons Act The Sagittarius Association of Slovenia has not coordinated with the proposer." That's what we're talking about today. And if we put first the security and protection of everything, it is necessary to put it rationally, it is meant to allow what is obviously in favour of Slovenian sport, because also from a security point of view it is certainly better for our children to engage in sport - and also in shooting sports, I stress once again, we achieve global success, exceptional global success, given the size of such a country - than for children to deal with anything else and lose their time and youthful energy and their extraordinary abilities for things that then lead to nowhere else. That's the first one. Secondly, what should be the common objective is that, if a record is already being established, that the record should be linked to as little additional costs as possible, read at zero cost, and to as little additional detail as possible. Therefore, we have also proposed a complete relief for those who make the application, that this is not related to additional costs, nor then to any additional obligation to do some tests, to go to medical examinations and the like, and that this is clearly stated in the law itself. While you have confirmed some of this, I can only say thank you for that part, because it goes here on behalf of security. If we want the list to be complete, then we can't have problems like this. However, if the list is not complete and does not serve anything, then its creation is apparent, because most of it is simply avoided and then this is the purpose of itself and that of bureaucracy, which will be further established for this purpose and will also use public funds to do so. So there will be no more security. If this list is as complete as possible, security will be achieved. This was also a proposal covered by the amendments of the SDS Group of Members. And not for another reason, but for the sake of Slovenian sport, I ask you to support these two proposals, which are minimal and also in the interests of security, even for the benefit of sport, even for the benefit of Slovenian youth.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u135	Mr State Secretary Mag has the floor. Klementzel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. I think so, too. I'm surprised to hear this message about the Sagittarius. Although I know that the matter has been coordinated with the Sagittarius or formally or informally, I don't know. I was told it was formal. But we'll check it out. This does not change some of the other facts that I would like to say that we do not insist on the traumatic events of this law, which kills sports. There's something you need to know. This law is without prejudice to those sports disciplines where we are extremely excellent, holding, where it is not an air weapon and does not interfere with most of those disciplines, where we are also excellent and it is an air weapon in disciplines that reach the speed of the gun below 180 meters per second or under the power of 20 joules. I have to say, I read this because I think I know as much about this as you do, if we're honest. However, it limits certain air weapons above certain power and speed, which, if I understand correctly, is also a sport discipline that is developing. We do not restrict this discipline in any way, nor do we prohibit such weapons from being sold or possessed, but it must be recorded. What are the recording procedures and what are the costs? The cost must be paid, the administrative fee and the notification sheet. That costs 18.99 euros today. I know it's not just money for "page throw," I agree, but it's also the fact that it's not such a mass sport and who can buy a rifle like that that's not guns you're buying just because it's not just those regular air rifles that kids have, but for stronger air guns, you probably have 18.99 euros. But it doesn't even matter. We are then, because we are trying to be reasonable, and we have shown this in the Public Collections Act, where in the final stage we supported that amendment that you, even when I returned from this committee where you proposed it, we have once again asked the police to report on how many injuries, how many threats there have been with such weapons. And make it sound so funny, besides death, which may even be on the question, we have more damage to animals, including horses. Three horses have been so injured in recent months with such weapons that two of them were then executed. Once again, it's a serious dangerous weapon. And that. It can be bought in Austria, and many things can be bought in Austria and brought over. And I agree, the shooting legislation in Europe is not regulated and is not uniform. But I'd like to point out something. The Republic of the Czech Republic and Northern Ireland were also gun-breathered in air weapons. You both prohibit or prohibit, but regulate the sale and possession of air weapons over 16 joules. So, basically, every slightly more serious air rifle. We didn't think of anything like that, we tried to go to the minimum to still get most of the sports in, and especially the minimum, where in practice the police detect the most injuries in some way. That's all on our side. However, I promise to check for the Sagittarius connection, but this does not change the content of the arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u137	Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Here we have seen the real example of the story of how you make out of an elephant fly, and that some who get to know things more poorly have hit a hard pass. I have to say, given that I put myself through a few hundred games with air weapons, that a ban such as this, sports in Slovenia in no way threatens anything. Mr. Raymond Debevec is competing with a small-caliber rifle they have in his shooting family, and so is he, all the specific documents and papers. And since there has been a need for these documents in Slovenia for 30 years, there has been no shooting sport with a small calibre rifle, in which Slovenians are reaching extraordinary results, in no way threatened and in any way affected. As far as 99% of all shootings and all air weapons in Slovenia are concerned, they are, of course, being carried out and will continue to operate with air rifles, for which even the smallest permit is not required because they do not have the appropriate power. The air rifles, which we are talking about today, are easily executed, I will say, pussy, and I must say, as a veterinarian with a long 22-year practice, I have met with such a weapon, not this power, ordinary power, in practice many times. The consequences are certainly severe and sometimes fatal. You must have read that certain people with other weapons problems committed suicide. And if we force a child at the age of seven to pass a road traffic test to ride a normal bicycle, then of course it is logical and normal that such a weapon requires some predestination and someone ensures that the person who uses this weapon will be mature, responsible and that he has certain knowledge of the use of this weapon. And that's all this is about. Things are very simple. What is being done today is that Slovenian shooting sport will be threatened and so on, listen, this is nonsense. After all, children in primary school, when they go to the exam, pay those few Euros for it. We don't prohibit this weapon, we don't forbid it in any way, who wants to shoot with it, to keep shooting, but we demand that he have certain knowledge and education. And now from a small story that enhances the security of our citizens and citizens, we have made the first-class political problem that exists in the minds of those who are trying to put every good thing on the table. It was also obvious that people would now go for such rifles in Austria. Yes, even if they are going to Austria, then it still needs to be notified in Slovenia. Does that mean anything? Then we'll take the chokers. Yes, apparently some who talk about it have also served their military service elsewhere or possibly with those peacekeepers and pacifists. But defending the legalization of silencers, yeah, listen people, it's out of your mind. Exactly why a silencer’s weapon should not be used for such purposes is known. And what we're listening to today is simply terrifying. When a politician is in the role of weapons expert and thinks he knows everything. But I'm sure if you put him on a 10-metre target, he'd have a big problem with it. I have to tell that opposition you're defending this today that you've already missed this target in the first step.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u139	Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, it's not that simple when I was listening to the forerunner. He is also a politician, and he plays the role of an expert who has a different thinking, but he also thinks he is an expert because he challenges others to their thinking. You know, security is really important, and that's what I agree with. There's no dilemma here. But I'm also afraid that someone is working on this very base from an elephant fly. I'm gonna do a little caricature first. I've never heard anyone with an air rifle break into a bank and demand money from a cashier. I don't think I've ever heard anyone shoot someone with an air rifle either after an accident or on purpose. Let's get to serious business now. We talk so much about these famous joules, or 20 or 30. In fact, we don't even know what kind of energy this is. That's about it. And I don't underestimate anyone. Even though I'm from a profession where there's something else I don't know about joules, I don't think I know everything. As far as guns are concerned, I'd say the following. With weapons 20 or 36 joules, there really isn't much energy. Look at the shape of the missile first. The shape of an aerial missile is right, I could say, ridiculous and contrary to the principles of technology. It's a form that needs to be inhibited. That the missile is flying, it's due because it's at high speed in the beginning. But it stops very quickly. We know that kinetic energy is dropping at a square of speed. However, since the shape of the bullet is such that it simply prevents the friction from being large, the range is not long. That's why we're talking about a maximum of 50 meters, but that's kind of an extreme range. Shots fired at how many? 10 meters by air. At least in that initial section, it's 10 meters away. Normal is the one where some results can be achieved. And that's where you have to take into account the fall in speed and kinetic energy. And let's stay on this matter of interpreting kinetic energy. Those weapons that have ten times more energy, those missiles have a completely different shape. And there's an aerodynamic form, if you want it not to inhibit it, it's said domestically because it's a conical shape. In the case of air weapons, however, the shape is different, but it is a cannon and I am personally sure, and even in the client we are all convinced that someone wants to do business out of fear of danger, it is said for safety to do business, and it costs as much as he wants. And here I wanted to say that someone is making this fear out of an elephant fly. And the fact is, wherever we go too far, that's not good. Above all, I would say to the athletes that if we start administrative measures again in some area, that someone would do business, that they would need to be tested, license, licenses and then, of course, administration, it would only encourage sport. We like it or we don't. Someone mentioned that Raymond Debevec has a completely different rifle, so he's got all the permits. Yeah, it's true. You know, those kids who want to, say, shoot with an air rifle completely under control don't get a gun like that right away, just like Raymond Debevec, but the one that's purely basic that's still below that limit. I agree with that. But when it reaches that limit, it will come to that area where we are now setting these limits. So he's gonna have to, I don't know what exams. He will be able to reach the exams at a certain age. Therefore, certain financial resources will be needed again, where a consensus is needed, and will have to go to a bureaucrat, and I look at this in a positive way, because the bureaucrat will have to do his work and the matter will be drawn up and expensive. I would like to warn you, however, that we have great success in the shooting field of the Slovenians. I'm going back to what I just said, that Raymond Debevec doesn't immediately become with this gun as Raymond Debevec does, but with the lower quality, the simpler, the lower kinetic energy that we are now introducing. Let's keep that in front of our eyes. What I'd like to say is this. When we talk about sport, it is not irrelevant and is increasingly at the forefront lately, regretting that everything in this area does not flourish as we would like. Even in an area that we have won, where we have athletes with great success, these problems are due to finances. We will now introduce additional administrative measures, additional brakes, which will also encourage sport, in this case shooting sports, to be even less of a sportsman and even less interested in having a bunch of unnecessary bureaucratic barriers? Not to mention those young talent who will have to put all this way through. And they're gonna run into it. What's the last obstacle? Money again. If the world champions give up further careers for money, because they have to worry about existence, then how will a younger one who is willing to work under control make it impossible for him. What's he gonna do? He's probably going to join a company that's not controlled. We're gonna like this better? Of course, you won't have to pay anything there, probably no bureaucrat will earn anything. Such a childlike soul will likely go its own way and be lost for ever. It's not a registered weapon problem, it's not a problem. The problem is what my colleague Grimes has already said, the problem is the legality or illegality of this weapon. If we have a weapon that's not reported because we're going to need a whole bunch of documents, we can buy it on the other side of the border that once existed, and today it's gone. Since we're gonna have a bunch of administrative problems, we're not gonna report him. And we'll go somewhere in the woods and shoot. People, where do you live, because this is happening! Instead of being controlled, we'll have it. And every administration like that reminds me of prohibition. They were also smart 70 years ago in the United States, and they wanted to ban alcohol. That's a very good idea. Unfortunately, life goes its own way and probably as much alcohol as it did in the United States, never, not before, not later, in the same number of people. And they found that this is not going anywhere, that things need to be controlled. But if you want to be in control, you have to have some normal conditions to control it and to keep things in check. There's something to prescribe that we're going to be some exams, some licenses, something like that, that probably doesn't lead to that. And that's what we're talking about. Of course, we don't mind if we take care of security. Safety alone is not just about giving a marriage, but you limit something to someone else, and you give them some extra benefits that you have to contribute. That's the problem. And I think that the case that we've heard that people at home also have an arsenal of weapons with a missile that has ten times higher kinetic energy than we're talking about here is illegal, but it's not illegal, it's not reported, it's only occasionally going into the forest, but they're shooting a little bit, or worse, because there's a certain environment that's exempt. But he can't intervene there. That's the problem. I'll tell you again, I've never heard anyone with an air rifle make a break-in. I've never heard that before because they use other things. But it will hurt the law that we are discussing if this amendment is not adopted, exclusively sports. What we don't want. I'm not saying that the legislator was ill-intentioned. Not at all. He probably didn't. But then things go into that real light, into the real environment. And that's where things get a different connotation. I am sure that someone will probably make a profit in that this ambition may have been the case. However, such a law is certainly exaggerating. And here is actually made out of an elephant fly. I support both of our amendments because I believe that security will not be affected and athletes will have significantly less problems. But I am immediately for stricter control within the framework of the law that is already in force. That's right. Keep him under surveillance. How? I didn't make the law. I did it in the woods where there's a lot of fire. Not only hunting, when hunters have their exercises, it's another thing, or their meetings. When he shoots himself like that, no hunting families or anything like that. That would really be necessary. But there's a gun where the missiles have ten times the kinetic energy. That's the problem. Those illegal weapons. Legally, it's not a problem. And do not allow sport in this sense to command some strict measures that we may then not even be able to implement. But those who are officially performing are the athletes who are officially performing, and they are the only ones who will be affected. And that is why, of course, I want both amendments to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u141	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u143	Yes, please, a replica of Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Excuse me! Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan mentioned the predecessor. I can see that I really need to tell him certain things, because there are probably five or six of us in this National Assembly that we have a certificate and a license to use any of the weapons. I have to say that what you said today missed the target. You probably didn't know that even in Slovenia you get a whole bunch of ammunition for air weapons with a sharp, pointy tip. I don't suppose you've ever heard of it as a connoisseur. You probably don't know that there is no discipline, no shooting discipline, no 20-joule weapon, or no more than 180 meters per second. There is no such discipline within the framework of the Sagittarius Slovenije. There may be some sort of internal rules of society, but none of the children will be harmed by the shooters. Next story. What happens in the shooting families after this weapon has been used and spent after a year. That kind of weapon, of course, goes for free sale. That weapon that's being controlled goes into normal procedure. And then, after two, three years, when used, an experienced trained shooter can come into the hands of an unauthorized person. I must say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I personally do not take responsibility for all these possible accidents that will happen. Then it's so obvious that air weapons don't work. Robbery can usually be done without weapons, good keys, vitrey, or other weapons. It is simply what we are saying today that goes against the safety of Slovenian citizens and citizens. And the things we're talking about, there's something we need to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u145	Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you. Given that Mr Saiovic has been identified as an expert in this field, I must say that I only regret that there are such a kind of demagogues in the Slovenian Parliament. What did he do? I mentioned earlier as an example of the non-compliance of European legislation, the fact that there are completely different policies in the area of sound breakers and silencers between France and some other countries, and the comparison with what is now being done here. And I also made a very clear distinction between what is used for sport and everything else, Mr Saiovic. And of course, it could easily be arranged with some good will, because the pressure on the air rifles is completely different from that of the firearms and some things can be allowed, but some things are clearly prohibited. Those who are destined for firearms, I'm sure. I'm sure we all agree here. And I am sorry that you are twisting words like that, because then, of course, normal debate, which would be in favor of Slovenian sport, is simply no longer possible. As far as impenetrableness is concerned. Here I would just point out one very fun comparison, and I hope it won't be misused to hear any further restrictions. If once this demagogy is started, how much perpetuity there is, two should be known. First of all, even what we talked about earlier. Those weapons of up to 20 and 36 joules, this has nothing to do with what would have hurt even the horse and something similar to what we and the Secretary of State agreed to when he came to me. He was talking about large-caliber air weapons, which have about 10 times or 5 times the energy that we are discussing today. In fact, one animal is likely to be seriously injured. Not with these little ones, I'm sure. The circumstances of that unfortunate story that developed earlier are so unusual that you would not continue to do so. Whoever wants to tell you where that man put that pipe, you'll understand why I'm saying it like that. But I don't want to talk about it here. But among the shooters, there is a very wide knowledge of this information and they have explained everything to me at this time, so I know exactly what it is. The next thing you have to say when it comes to breakthroughs, that's why I mentioned it. If there is talk of safety and the possibility of hunting animals, which Mr Sayovic used to start before demagogia, then I will ask you where are the uniform criteria here. Even through all the well-known protective vests, with exceptionally those that have steel plates in it, but all the others, with Kevlar, go a fine ordinary shot from the Olympic bow, equipped with an appropriate tip, which is sold freely anywhere in Europe and which is also in no way restricted by this law. That no one will understand that I'm calling for this. But if that's settled, then I'll tell you that it's something that's even funny to compare with each other. You know that during the war for Slovenia, one of the guards with the bow of a rope was shot, completely over all the walls. I mean, you can imagine how much of a breakthrough he's got if he wants to and if he knows. There's also the question of knowing. The same is true of the air weapons that we talked about, because this is a weapon that needs to be specially prepared. It's not something you put on and pop. Everyone can put a bullet in a firearm and trigger it. But it's got to be pumped up, it's done half an hour, it's a hell of a pain in the ass, and then it's still the right thing to do with this thing so you can do something about it. This requires a certain predestination. And now that we are at the foreword, we come up with key stories, which we have already agreed with the Secretary of State, who has left us at this time. I also personally ask the leader and expect a procedural explanation as to whether this meeting still meets all the conditions for continuation, because there is no representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who can participate in these discussions at all. But we agreed on these cost stories. In fact, he did say how much the application cost or the notification cost. 20 euros about. In fact, I'd say he's being neglectful, yes, he is. [[...]] Only the point in which each air is now included, including the one intended exclusively for sport and up to 36 joules, we have said, and the requirement to issue a notification permit, that you have a special examination, whose costs, in addition to being very difficult in time and are within about 200 euros or up. Depends on where you're doing it. And then special medical examinations should be carried out. Not those for athletes, but special ones that are almost as expensive as the exam itself. Then you can start adding all this up and get costs that are ten to twenty times the sum that Mr Secretary of State has stated. And that's what athletes are afraid of. That's what they're most afraid of. No one would mind if it were just a notification if it were not related to additional costs or some arbitration. Even the opposite. Some of the clubs specifically warned that they were wondering if something was already changing in why it was not going in the direction of Germany. Do you know how Germany does this? They explained it to me very nicely. They shall have a special authorisation where there is no possibility of arbitration, but shall only be used as a record, by the Ministry of the Interior which issues it. And this license is for all the stronger air rifles. But watch out, even for all the small-caliber weapons, and for some other things. It's a nice show, and nobody touches it and says, "You can't have it." In this way, however, it has a record and there are no additional costs. That notification can be made on the Internet. He owes it to the trader to do it anyway, he has to report it, and every change the owner does, and it works fine normally. No extra costs, no extra problems. And I ask why the hell is that not possible in Slovenia? Why is it now necessary to tie this to some impossible exams for which, by the way, no one is qualified at all. He is probably the one who would be in debt, such as the current air weapons competitor, more qualified than the one who will now explain to him how to handle weapons safely. He is five years old and five years old, and now one will explain to him how to deal with it safely. So let's take a real look at these things! The only result of this will be that whoever is a lump who still wants to be a lump will easily come to that and abuse it and that will be every story. However, those who want to engage in sports will have one additional circus, and the additional costs and the question is whether or not they will insist on doing so. And the question is, will those clubs that started to develop this even insist? Something will die, and it will be sacrificed on behalf of some kubagi greater security, which in fact will not bring it. Because that, because I'm saying, is two completely different things. As long as it's an air weapon, as I've made it very clear before. He spoke earlier when it came to animals, these are missiles that have 200 or more joules of energy. Here we're talking about 36 joules or 20 joules, that's called ten times less power. On the other hand, I said what about the Olympic bow might be done. You place the right tip and it goes not only through everything, but through all the protective vests it goes even, which is not even a gunshot from a firearm. And that's the reality of it, if we're talking once about perpetuity. By the way, bows are also used for hunting animals, and they are also used to "raubšica" as far as I know them. That's what I've been warned about, and the shooters who say it now seem to us like we're something I don't know, we've been competing, but where there's really some abuse, and what kind of ducks are there with a bow shooting, and that's not the problem. That is why they also feel strongly exposed to injustice from this point of view. Once again, however, here at one point I agree with Mr Saiovic that, in fact, after unnecessary work from the elephant fly. A proposal that is reasoned, supported by those societies that want to develop this, which in no way represents one, I do not know what security, risk and without difficulty would be settled. Once again, this as a long-term solution, why for God's sake does not try to harmonise it at European level. Not in the direction of the greatest repression, but in the direction of some reasonable solutions that would benefit everyone. Now, with only a border crossing that virtually does not exist anymore, it is Schengen, it can get a lot. What is in the free sale in Spain and in France, which I have been told, as an example of only these shooters, from the most powerful pumpers and others, is the firearms to understand each other, the "cutters" by their own devices, and what I have said is that France is even sponsoring all weapons of sound and silencers. It's just something that's hard to compare, and I don't know why it didn't go that way. Not this current regime, the proposed arrangements are interpreted as merely a spillover of European directives. This, once again, does not touch at all that anything else, where our law is either more restrictive or allows for a significantly greater selection of individual authorities than all European directives, as well as all comparable regulations, is allowed to do so, and that we do not go into this at all. It is a question of what brings more security in practice. And once again, the vast majority of problems are related to illegal firearms, which are in Slovenia, the vast majority of stories, if you go back now to watch them for 10 years. The vast majority of abuses are related to illegal short-term firearms. In this part, this comparison, in addition to the fact that it is entirely impossible to blame those who want to engage in sports. Once again, I ask myself, there are still two elements, political, what is written in the law and what is then put into practice. This, even political science, teaches that at least as much of the effect of the law as what is formally enshrined in the provisions of this law depends on what it implements. If I call you again to remember the cases I mentioned earlier. But when someone has an automatic rifle and they live in a real settlement somewhere near Chernobyl, you can guess what kind of settlement this is, and you alert that cop, and he says, "No, there's nothing we can do about it. We'll take notice, there's nothing we can do." Wait a minute, where's the security? And I drove past him, just as he was looking at what he had in him, and ran against the village, and in the midst of the white day. And by the way, in the middle of the tourist season, the measure was perfect. Very interesting. Not to mention that there's automatic weapons raiding guests every day. Come once to the White Landscape, very interesting, go to the monument of Franz Rozman Stannet and sit down and listen to what happens to guests. And you will see what is the real state of this strong protection and control of our weapons. The question is, who is it? And from this point of view, I think that the same criteria and the same marriage must be for everyone, ladies and gentlemen, purely for everyone. And it makes no sense to limit excessively on the one hand and thus cause negative consequences for sport, while ensuring that there is no positive real impact. On the other hand, those provisions, which should certainly be implemented consistently in practice, are obviously not implemented in a manner that is necessary. That's the question. It is easier to be a bureaucrat and some 'colates' but not to go into conflicts of interest yet, who has all their clubs and gives different licenses and intends to earn in granting these permits, but maybe he was also involved in writing this law. According to the information given in the Arrow Link, contact her, they'll tell you that I'm not explaining. On the other hand, with regard to arrangements that allow some to be obviously outside the law or above the law. It just doesn't work. Why don't you allow sports to come back to normal and that's why I'm coming back now, and that concludes the question that I asked at the beginning. It is true that this concerns in a given case a relatively narrow segment, a emerging segment again within individual clubs, which is said to be, as everyone claimed, perspective and so on. What, for God's sake, did Slovenian sport offend you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u147	Mr. Jože Tanko. Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, when the Government was late for the meeting, suspended the meeting for 10 minutes and waited for government representatives to arrive. Today, no appropriate responses to these discussions can be received from the Government at this point. There will also be no government representative at the next four points. I feel like we have a government in exile. There's nowhere to go. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, we suspend work at this point and at the following points and wait so long that qualified representatives of the Government will come to the meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't think working like this in this house can take place. We have laws proposed by the Government, we have amendments proposed by Members, we need to talk about them here, there is no government. Not one representative of the government is at this point anymore. I don't know where they are, and the next four items of the agenda when it comes to important financial laws. The next law will be the law of financial transactions. Slovenia is a highly export-oriented economy and will not be a representative of the Government. I propose that you make this proposal for the meeting to be suspended until the Government is adequately represented to decide on this. I think that this proposal is correct, we want the right answers, we also want a debate in this National Assembly. But if the government is in exile, then I suggest someone formally communicate it. We act at these meetings of the National Assembly more or less as if we have a government in exile. There's nobody here. When the photo deadline is over, there's no government representative anywhere else. None. Not just the minister. Nor does the Secretary of State and anyone who could vote if we cannot provide a specific representative of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary of State, can be voted on here as well. Nothing. And working in the National Assembly in this way is not possible to organize. I am sorry that representatives of the largest coalition parties and, in fact, the entire coalition are smiling. Yes, you can. You may smile, but this is not the level of work we were given in the previous mandate. You can look at all the videos, and you'll see that you've always had qualified interlocutors. Now, at these meetings of the National Assembly, this is no longer the case. Dear Vice-President, I propose that you put this proposal to a vote or order a recess for, I don't know, half an hour to gather representatives of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I can say that the Secretary of State attended this item on the agenda, that he had said what he had to say, that he had to answer, that the second time he called, then he came to me and apologized for the necessity of the second meeting. So much for that point. Otherwise, Mr. Tanko, I agree with you. But so they wouldn't pull now, and so they wouldn't interrupt, I told these facts that they were. As far as the following points are concerned, I have a notice that government representatives will be present. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič Victory Trinitarians. Here you go. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. This explanation is not sufficient, because I have proposed that a proposal should be put to the vote that the National Assembly wishes to obtain the views of the Government. The debate is taking place, we have an hour and 20 minutes or even more of a debate in the National Assembly and there will certainly be a number of questions. We want to get the appropriate answers to these questions from the government. Secondly, at the next four items of the agenda, I propose that the National Assembly also vote on time for representatives of the Government to debate, because if they sit here and do not even have time to discuss, then the question is what they will do with the four agenda items. Just a photo shoot. I suggest it. I also suggest that you correct our Group of Members in due course, because I have been procedurally speaking, I did not have a replica or a debate. But I suggest you put this to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you. By the Rules of Procedure, I can put this to a vote and put it to the vote. Mr. Saiovic, please, if you'll take my card so I can sign up here. Thank you. We are voting on the conclusion that there should be a representative of the Government present at this point and that they shall be sitting until it arrives, we shall interrupt. Is that the right decision? [[Do.]] We're voting. The vote is under way. Unfortunately, there's no quorum. As I see it when I agree, Mr Tribal, with this, but at this moment only one Member has come to the Chamber. [[...]] We're voting again. The vote is under way. Thank you very much for your instructions. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members! Since time has run out and we should make a third decision now, I would like to suggest something. Secretary of State Klemenčič will come to the Chamber and I therefore do not think we would vote on this proposal again. If you want, we'll vote. There is also this possibility, Mr. Anderlich. Especially if a person asks nicely and politely all the Members present, but only one answers. Thank you. We're voting. There were 67 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 32. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm adjourning the session in five minutes, and I think he'll be a representative of the government in the Chamber at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u153	The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the SNS Group, we absolutely support the two amendments tabled by colleagues from the SDS. If we do not accept these amendments, it will be a matter of pushing a certain sports segment into illegality. The fact is, those who compete with weapons and who love weapons will not give up on it, but will simply, in their own words, be quiet and regulate laws that are bad. The fact that various examinations are required and various certificates are required for all of this, in my view, only makes it possible to make a profit to some precisely defined friends who have made it into the law itself. I've already said that the biggest mistake is that the law on police matters is written by cops. And it always turned out that way. This is a practice in Slovenia. Such practices do not know another democratic state, but they do. These are the rest of the old days when one cop was worth three normal people, at least after witnessing. Now it's improved, so one cop's worth only two normal people in testifying, for example. Except when some cop isn't very accommodating, then his superiors will run him over. A little something about silencers. Back in the 19th century, silencers were used for what was called room shooting. And there was nothing wrong with that. And when Mr Saiovic spoke so ghastlyly about silencers and sound breakers, it must be said that the crime does not produce weapons. A man commits a crime. Then it would make sense to focus more on the issue of human education and to give the education segment more opportunities, more breadth, because sometimes we had pre-war education, we do not have that today. It would make sense to introduce at least a few hours of compulsory education in the field of arms and related legislation in schools. When Mr Saiovic said that he may have five people or six people in the entire National Assembly of any charter of possession or any other weapon, I must say that there are five of us in our Group of Members, and we all have one of these charters so that we can have weapons. That's probably a little more than five, or six in the National Assembly, unless you're preparing to get it all together. As for not hitting, I thought it was going to my account, as Mr Saiovic said I probably wouldn't hit a target at 10 meters. Mr. Saiovic, I challenge you, we take every gun of our own, we go 100 meters, every single clip, and we'll see. I'll pick a tanfolia based on CZ75, 9 parabels, and we'll go, and we'll try out who's going to be a trofu, who's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u155	Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. I wasn't going to make a call at this point, but given that the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party spoke so dramatically about this, if we are going to put in place control of these air weapons, I had to. We're not going to jeopardize the sport by controlling it, we're not going to. Not a shooting sport or any other. We're going to do a little bit of control over which weapon and who owns it so it doesn't happen, like the board said, it's not really about those BTC guns that kids can shoot sparrows with. No, it's not about that. But even for these, it is necessary to keep records in some way, because sparrows are not allowed to be shot like that. Is an air weapon dangerous or not? Whether we need some people to lose their eyes or some other injury to find out that this weapon is dangerous. It is dangerous when it is in the hands of those who do not know how to use it, who do not know how to deal with it, and who do not know what is being done. Sports shooters shoot at targets, and children who play in the yard shoot at anything that comes under a shot or a pipe to show their own adrenaline or any other power. We have to stop this. And by introducing control over all the firearms, no matter what kenetically powerful they have, and any such weapons can also be dangerous, including the bow and including the finches we used to have and, of course, we broke a lot of glass or smashed someone's head and there were, of course, injuries when we were kids doing it. That's why it's important to do this kind of control, not to dramatize how we destroy sports and destroy what else. We're not gonna destroy anything. We'll make an order in this area. Those who are real athletes who use this for sport, for sports, will be able to do everything they can to obtain the right charter. With this, of course, we will only introduce a little more control over this, a little more knowledge of what is going on. Even when someone happens to have an accident, we will be able to remove those people who have legally reached these weapons that work with such weapons in accordance with sports rules or some other, in fact, from the circle of those who cause accidents. These are people who can handle guns. The problem is, then, if it were on sale, without control, such a weapon comes into the wrong hands. And that is why I will not support such an amendment, which reduces control over it, and I will support all those things that allow greater control, including some anomalies that are likely to still appear in this law and should be supplemented in the coming periods when the law is being supplemented. I agree with those who say that even some things need to be defined a little more sharply and slightly better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u157	Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I must say that since the debate is on its way to the end, I would point out once again that there is not a single discipline within the framework of the Slovenian Sagittarius in which such weapons would be competed. So the sportsmen won't hurt anything. Even after this debate, one would argue that the rifle is the most desirable toy we want to push the Slovenian Members into the hands of our children. I don't think so. The fact is that in practice this would appear to be so that these weapons will have to be notified not to the municipality, but to the administrative units, but to the trader who sells such weapons, that it will have to be demonstrated that the person is 21 years old and has not been dealt with against public order and peace. If I now hear that, at some point in Dolenjska, the true state of war is obviously applicable, that there is always an average, then the solution is certainly not to place more of these weapons on the market, but to reduce the quantity of weapons on the market. These are the essential things we're talking about right now. Look, in the elementary schools for a lot of families, there's a tragic accident, and then, of course, someone compares air weapons, which in the hands of almost everyone can fire a shot with an Olympic bow, which has a lot of punching power, but I'm telling you that with an Olympic bow at this distance, most people wouldn't know what to do, let alone point it at a real target that would shoot some bulletproof vest. However, as for the use of silencers and the use of bows for poachers, there is further evidence that when such matters are legalized, there is an opportunity for disaster in this country, for poorer safety and for the risk of any more life, so in my personal name I say that I do not support further arming of Slovenia at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u159	And Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's an air weapon. Some people, when you speak here in the hall, should say that in fact we need to get to know a little bit about how we draw black and white and here we are terribly critical of what can happen. I'm the generation of Raymond Debevec, and we've been competing together, and unfortunately he's still an ace, and somehow I left it. But I was the secretary of the shooting family, still a judge and coach. And I can tell you, Mr. Saiovic, you're talking nonsense, big nonsense. The shooting starts essentially if we want to selectively get perspective, already there in the first grade, with seven years ahead. Young people need to be raised to be able to perform in high-level competitions. And to restrict, essentially, the administrative way of buying weapons that is European comparable, if we look at it, in Austria we can buy it, but we're going to have to have one ton of documents, that's a lame act. A gun or a fireball, for example, is normally as described by this amendment, with such a pressure force. And if we knew that, we wouldn't talk about it so much, but the amendments would support it. In short, you speak nonsense, and it is necessary to learn a little that you can say something, not just words, words, words.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u161	Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you now, Mr. President, for saying a quarter of what I wanted to say to Mr. Saiovic myself. He obviously doesn't need a simple answer. It is true that no such competition is yet taking place at the state level, Mr Saiovic. But thanks to this extremeness, and we're jumping from one extreme to the other, which you're proposing today, there's probably never going to be such a competition. And I'm sorry that this is so, because it's going, once again, for one of the Olympic disciplines that is currently in development, in bandages, and I guess it also has some perspective, as we all claim. Why are you doing this? I don't know. I have to say, personally, I'm in a big dilemma. I have already made it very clear that there are completely different things and there is no point in repeating them. The fact is that when you say that you want to enable yourself to not know what you are mixing, of course, obviously, and you are doing already by going across the border of good taste, apples and pears, I talked about how many illegal firearms are there, and also automatic, which obviously comes across the border, and it is being vehemently abused every day individually and non-stop. And compare it to competitions with air weapons, you know, it's a little over the edge of bad taste and also across the border of common sense. And I wouldn't talk about it now because it doesn't make any sense. You know very well what the consequences are if you have really dealt with them yourself. The fact is that the unnecessary costs and unnecessary administration that this law will bring into this competitive segment will surely reject some emerging sport. I personally think it's a shame. You seem to think it's some kind of collateral damage. But if you're talking about wanting to give someone something, you know, then I have to tell you that it's you and your colleagues that's definitely the first one that made it possible, because until now it's all been without any restrictions. And this marriage was, as I recall, adopted at a time when LDS was in power, many years ago, and now correct me if I'm wrong. And one of the major changes was made during that period, and it did not happen by any means. So much for who gives someone something. I'll tell you again. None of us would mind establishing a record. We don't mind. That would be in everyone's favor. But let this be done in a way that is not excessively administrative, which does not cause any additional costs and in this way really creates something that will contribute to greater security. And this principle should apply in the future. All over-administrative administration and all over-costs will only result in the rejection of the growth of a sport. But those who want to abuse something will continue to abuse it. By saying what I said earlier - about the issues when you used the term 'how to rob guests' yourself - this is a matter of failure or inadequate or inadequate implementation of existing legislation. That should certainly be the first objective. Before additional administrative restrictions are imposed, to be implemented, hell, at least what the law already provides because it is good in this part and I support it. But why the hell is that obviously not happening in some people? I'd really like to know that. Because no one will tell me that all the cops in that part of Slovenia are deaf and that they do not hear this chatter. But most of all, I must say, I was raised by that statement by the police officer I spoke to when I reminded him of something that was going on along the main road. This is the road where foreigners travel to the sea, through Črnomelj to the border to Croatia. In the middle of the day, I say it again, and he says if it's that village, then we're not gonna be anything, and that's not. Shall I explain to you which settlement this is, or should I leave it to my colleague Jelinčič? And why we can have citizens who obviously have double rights in Slovenia. And I don't agree with that. Let one rule apply to all and we must all be equal before the law. This is especially true before additional administrative restrictions are imposed, which are unnecessary in a given case, from one extreme to another, they are excessive, they will have harmful consequences for one small, and perhaps once a valuable part of Slovenian sport. But some of the huge security gains certainly don't mean anything. I personally think that because of this excessive administration, the whole thing is going to get tough and the effect is going to be absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u163	Mr. Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I'd only add one sentence. The fight is jointly defended by the Slovenian National Party and the SDS as regards arms, arms trafficking.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u166	And fight the demagogues, who, even with the written statements made by athletes, turn this into a mockery of politics, of the public and of those athletes who do so. Let me tell you, Mr Kek, that the Sagittarius Society of Gorjanci, which I mentioned earlier, is their letter, is at your very end, and what you mean directly with them, will surely be extremely excited about your sense of humor and your attention to the development of sport in Dolenjska.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u167	Replica, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. As far as sports in Dolenjska are concerned, the Dolenjci must know what my stakes are. As for the Gorjans' Sagittarius Society, I spoke to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u169	I conclude this debate because I see no one wants to discuss it anymore. We are moving on to the second amendment to Article 39 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u170	This additional amendment facilitates the issue of application, removes those additional costs or very clearly determines that they cannot appear. And his goal is to make the purpose of the law as possible in this work. One part of this has been taken into account when you adopted your own amendment at the last meeting of the committee. Although you have rejected our amendment as a whole, you have essentially summarized part of this solution in your amendment. I myself would ask you, in order to achieve at least what is meant to be the fundamental purpose of this law, to support this part of the amendment and thus allow this purpose to be realized to the greatest extent possible, because it is a matter of security, ladies and gentlemen, for exactly what you have sworn in your deliberations all the time. Now it's time for action.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreign exchange transactions, in the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Mr Iztok Podkrižnik for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Respectable. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 9th session. Ten. 2009 as a mother of labour, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in its legislative technical view and in its opinion recalls the uncertainties or shortcomings in Articles 1, 3, 10 and 12 of the legislative proposal. Among the qualified candidates, the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS groups submitted joint amendments to Articles 1, 3, 10 and 12 of the legislative proposal on the basis of the warnings contained in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the context of the opening of the second hearing, the Minister responsible for Finance stated, inter alia, that the two main parts of the Foreign Exchange Act govern exchange transactions, competent authorities and sanctions in cases of infringements of the Regional Cash Control Regulation when entering or leaving the Community. At the same time, the law provides for a criminal authority in the area of exchange transactions. Amendments or additions to the basic text were primarily necessary due to a drastic reduction in exchange rate transactions on the foreign exchange market at the time Slovenia entered the euro area. According to the opinion expressed, the introduction of a new monetary unit has reduced the volume of exchange transactions by halving the number of swaps in Slovenia. As a result, business banks no longer cover the costs of contractual cooperation with exchange offices or cancel contracts already concluded. On the other hand, low-trafficking contractual converters in the exchange market increasingly cover the costs charged to them by the contractual banks on their services. The corresponding situation is followed by a proposal for a law on exchange rate transactions which, in the course of the solutions presented, is carried out by a contract exchanger institution, deletes the provision which requires the Minister of Finance to establish more detailed content and means of informing each other of the supervisory authorities, raises a fine for natural persons from the current range of EUR 500 to 5,000, and further introduces the possibility of a swift criminal procedure for the provision of a fine of higher and minimum prescribed amount. In conclusion, it was stated that the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service were supported by the Government. In the context of the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of that service on the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups stressed that they followed these warnings. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 1, 3, 10 and 12 of the legislative proposal. At the end of the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on all articles of the legislative proposal at the same time and adopted them in accordance with the third subparagraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The adjustment of the foreign exchange regime is due to one of the four fundamental freedoms arising from the Treaty establishing the European Community, namely the principle of free movement of capital. Slovenia's entry into the EU and the introduction of the euro were important milestones for foreign exchange operations in Slovenia, as we brought monetary and foreign policy management to the EU institutions. In particular, the introduction of the euro as unit money resulted in a reduction in exchange rate transactions themselves. According to the bill's proponent, the provisions on cash control at the time of entry into the EU are incomplete and in some cases they need to be amended. The bill also allows for more rational exchange operations. We will therefore support the draft law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Club, the position will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act in second reading will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, since the European Union was created as a community based on economic cooperation. The start of the merger dates back to 1950 in the European Coal and Steel Community. These basic economic foundations and the principles of the functioning of the European Union have been preserved to date. While European integration continues intensively in the political field. Historical developments and modern needs have been established in the European Union through four fundamental freedoms, namely free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free movement of services and capital. And it is precisely the novelty of the Foreign Exchange Act that relates to the freedom of free movement of capital. Although the law has been in force for some time now, it needs to be complemented accordingly. These changes relate to the transfer to or from the European Union of cash transferred by residents and non-residents in passenger, freight and postal transport. Therefore, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act adequately complements legislation in this area, which will in practice allow for more rational exchange operations. Also, this law, which we are discussing today, provides more precisely for sanctioning violations and for removing some significant uncertainties in this area. The key positive things brought about by the novels, and as a result of this will also be our today'strengthening vote, notably the establishment of a more cost-effective system in the conduct of exchange transactions, clearer and more precise sanctions for irregularities, a more meaningful regulation of supervisory functions over exchange transactions and other ongoing and up-to-date updates. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are convinced that there is more order, more scrutiny and better efficiency in the interests of all citizens and citizens of our country, so we will support the proposal in the second reading in a uniform manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Well-welcome president, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will support amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act. The proposal for amendments to the law, as has already been said several times, mainly relates to legal solutions relating to the control of cash when entering or leaving the European Community, under Regulation 1899/2005 of the European Community in certain parts, and they need to be amended in certain parts. There is also no longer adequate management of exchange transactions in which a prior contract with the Bank is now required. Such an arrangement has proved irrational due to the decline in the volume of exchange transactions, and the proposal also introduces the abolition of the contract exchanger's institute, which will result in more cost-effective exchange operations. The basic objective of the bill is to regulate, in the legal order and practice, the transfer of cash transferred to the community or from the community by residents and non-residents, as has already been said today, in passenger, postal and postal transport, and it is also necessary to regulate the legal framework that will allow for more rational exchange. The purpose of the law is therefore also to clarify the provisions in the field of sanctioning offences and to remove certain uncertainties which could lead to a misinterpretation of the text in the Foreign Exchange Act in the second reading. The proposed changes in the law are based on lessons learned from practice. Therefore, once again, in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the amendment of the Foreign Exchange Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Iztok Podkrižnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act of February 2008 complements the applicable Foreign Exchange Act. The main parts of the Foreign Exchange Act govern exchange operations and the competent authorities and sanctions for infringements of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 in cash controls when entering or leaving the Community. The law also provides for a criminal authority in the area of exchange transactions. Amendment of the law, we believe that it is necessary to drastically reduce exchange transactions on the foreign exchange market when we enter the euro area or at the time of the Slovenian takeover of the euro. Therefore, it is no longer properly regulated to carry out exchange transactions where a transitional contract is now required for a business bank. The proposal introduces the abolition of the contract exchanger's institute, which will result in a more cost-effective implementation of exchange transactions. Among other important solutions to the new proposal, however, the mandatory prior conclusion of contracts of contract exchangers, the conduct of exchange transactions with business banks, is the abolition of these contract exchangers. An offence shall also be considered if, when preparing the entry or the amount of cash from the territory of the European Community, the person provides incorrect or incomplete information. A fine is being raised for an individual who commits an offence under the Foreign Exchange Act from the current range of 200 to 1,000 euros and between 500 and 5,000 euros. The proposal for a foreign exchange transaction law constitutes a sufficient legal basis for the exercise of this supervision. We support this bill in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the DeSUS position on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. It is certain that the fundamental and fundamental economic freedom of the European Union is free movement of goods, free movement of persons or free movement of workers, free movement of services and free movement of capital and payments. And our country joined all these freedoms when it joined the integration of the European Union. When we approach this, it is also our duty to stick to it and to respect it. Although the applicable Foreign Exchange Act is drafted in accordance with the requirement of full release of capital flows and the establishment of a European legal order in the area of exchange transactions, due to more effective supervision or control of the arrival of cash in and outside the European Community, the existing law in this part needs to be remedied. Accordingly, the Government has prepared a text of the amendment which adequately regulates these shortcomings and additional amendments have already been included in the amendment proposal at the working body meeting. The DeSUS Group does not oppose the proposal, as it is not a major intervention in the field of regulation, but because of the changed social circumstances, such as the introduction of the euro in Slovenia and thus a drastic reduction in trade transactions, only articles that are imperfect or irrational in view of today's actual situation are changing. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support the amendment of the Foreign Exchange Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on agenda items today after the end of agenda item 15. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, under the regular procedure. The government's representative is a mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that nothing important will happen at these four points unless we make a procedural proposal. We actually have four important financial laws ahead of us. We've just concluded the Foreign Exchange Act. We now have a value added tax law, followed by the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and after the conversion of the pids and then we have a amendment to the Tonage Tax Act. In all these four laws, the government has not announced the time. We also drew attention to this at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly on Friday. Unfortunately, neither the coalition nor the president of the National Assembly has listened to this proposal to give time to the government. The Secretary-General of the Government, who was at this meeting and represented the Government, is, I will say, very underestimating to this proposal and has somehow rejected it, if, what you are involved in it, the Government is the one who will decide whether or not it will participate in these points and what to explain or give additional points of view. I must say, at similar points of the agenda today, the Government has announced its position. And since the Secretary of State is here to make an effort to attend the meeting of the National Assembly, I suggest that the leaders of the coalition groups be encouraged and that we give the Secretary of State a word to give her five minutes of time, as is customary for all other Members, for an additional explanation. And I must say that we will also support such a proposal in the parliamentary group if any of the leaders of the coalition parliamentary groups give it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. On the basis of the discussion at the College, she is a representative of the Government of Mag. We took part and expressed our willingness to give the opening statement within five minutes. Here you go. Mrs. Kamnareva, please, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u186	Dear Members, the President-in-Office! Thank you so much for saying that. It was not the Government's intention not to be present in the debate, but since no additional amendments had been tabled, we considered that further explanations of the law were unnecessary. However, I will briefly explain to you what you will then hear about the content of the law that we are proposing in the National Assembly. The key issue of this amendment of the law is compliance with European rules relating to the value added tax directive of the Council. It is a matter of proposing an amended method of taxation in relation to the place of supply of services and in view of the return of value added tax to non-residents in the Member State of return. In addition, we introduce some additional provisions into the law that will improve or reduce tax fraud and, above all, improve tax collection in cases of international transactions. The new rules concerning the place of service of taxable persons follow the application of the principle of taxation at the place of destination. The amendment of the rules relating to value-added tax refunds to taxable persons established in another Member State constitutes an update of the existing recovery procedure, which will be carried out exclusively electronically. The bill increases the percentage of flat-rate compensation charged in the purchase of goods and services from flat-rate farmers from 4% to 8%. It is further envisaged to increase the threshold for the application of the specific system of value added tax after the paid implementation, from EUR 208.000 to EUR 400,000. The proposal also includes the introduction of lower value added tax rates for certain labour intensive services. This is a number of types of services where we expect that the consequences will also be positive in terms of reducing the grey economy in the sectors they will hit. The proposal introduces certain additional measures to prevent fraud in the field of value added tax, namely, providing for faster reporting of intra-Community transactions and shorter deadlines for the submission of recapitulative reports, establishing market value as a tax base for supplies carried out between connected persons, establishing the obligation to submit an insurance instrument to fulfil the obligation in the decision-making process to pay the value added tax on the basis of the tax calculation, providing for the possibility of introducing a reverse tax mechanism in certain risk sectors, which should be monitored by the possibility of introducing a solidarity liability institution to pay the value added tax in cases where the taxable person is aware or should know that he is involved in transactions aimed at avoiding value added tax, the possibility of submitting a tax return on value before the statutory deadline and for the shorter tax period of payment of the transfer of the value of the award to the value of the award. The last proposed measures relate to the taxpayer's obligation, which for the first time proposes a tax settlement. We believe that changes in the law bring positive changes to the system of charging and paying value added tax, so we propose that you support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of the Committee, Bogdan Čepič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 9th session. Ten. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled amendments to the proposed law within the time limit of business, namely Article 38. The Committee was also presented as additional material with amendments to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise to supplement Article 44 of the Law, which contains a proposal that a lower value added tax rate should be applied to all the labour-intensive sectors where the contribution was an essential component of the final product or service. During the discussion, the members of the Committee focused on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for an increase in the threshold for the application of the specific VAT regime, the payment of realisations, to EUR 2 million, as set out in the proposed amendment. The amendments in its explanatory memorandum state that the proposed amendment has followed the recommendation of the Commission of the European Union, which considers that such an arrangement should be available to all micro-enterprises and that the proposed amendment could be used by 93.6% of those in the period of the economic crisis. The representatives of the proposed law were also reminded of the reasons why the amendment was not acceptable. In this context, particular attention was drawn to the fact that the Government in the proposal for a law actually duplicates the level of this threshold, which is intended to slightly encourage the application of this special regime. With the amendment, the proposed increase of annual turnover to 2 million represents an excessive limit that would make such a system no longer an exception, but would involve almost all taxpayers. Raising the threshold beyond reasonable limits would lead to the abolition of the control mechanism of the existing value added tax system. The representative of the Government also drew attention to the fact that the recommendation of the Commission of the European Union, or the proposal for a directive which is being addressed at an early stage, was already opposed by most Member States, as the proposal was intended to go towards the establishment of a completely new system that equates the existing one. Therefore, by regulation, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment, it is reasonable to wait at least until the conclusion of the debate within the EU. In addition, Slovenia had to request a new authorisation from the European Union months ago for the proposed doubling of the threshold for the application of a special arrangement after a paid implementation that does not apply to the EU. The special arrangements for the accounting and payment of VAT after the payment of the VAT on the basis of the law submitted cover 75% of the taxpayers. The debate stressed that the proposed threshold of €400,000 for a small economy is acceptable. The Committee also drew attention to the provisions of Article 44 and the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for amendments to the Committee. With regard to this amendment concerning the application of a lower value added tax rate for labour intensive industries with input as an essential component of the final product or service for increased availability of non-alcoholic beverages in the catering industry. The government opposes such proposals. It was also pointed out that the amendment's work proposal is beyond the scope of the list of goods and services for which it is possible to introduce a lower VAT rate in accordance with European legislation. However, any additional exemptions need approval from the Member States, which is practically impossible to expect. On the basis of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Committee's amendments were drafted and adopted in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. He accepted the amendments to Articles 2, 15, 17, 19, 21, 22, 29, 30 and 44. However, it did not accept the amendment to Article 38, which is in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first shall have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Miran Györek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act because the proposal provides for significant changes in the place of delivery of services and the consequent taxation of services. Thus, services are generally taxed in the Member State where the contracting authority is established, while services to non-taxable persons will be taxed at the place where the service provider is established. First. Another time. We also agree with the proposed amendments to the rules for the refund of VAT on taxable persons established in another Member State of the European Union. Above all, we agree with the introduction of a lower VAT rate, 8.5%, from the supply of books and some other trade services. Of course, under the assumption that such a change in the VAT law will also in practice mean or ensure a reduction in the prices of books and certain services, thereby allowing for greater accessibility of Slovenians and Slovenes to the book, I am thinking first of all of the Slovenian books. Some other services may be useful in selecting the preferred services, but again in the hope that the prices of such services will also fall here. So, say, in the context of hairdressing services. Just for instance. If the service costs EUR 20 today, this would, of course, provide a lower price, for example, a price of 15, not that such a law will benefit only the service provider. Of course, this should apply to all the services or craftsmanship that are preferred. We also accept the proposal to increase the threshold for the application of specific VAT accounting arrangements after a paid realization from 208.000 to 400,000 euros. This will certainly facilitate the work of craftsmen and ease their problems with unnecessary administration. Above all, we welcome the introduction of anti-fraud measures, including faster action by monthly reporting on transactions within the European Union. It will be entirely appropriate to require the insurance of the VAT liability before the VAT is paid if the tax authority doubts the eligibility of the VAT refund application. There is also a provision on solidarity of liability for the payment of VAT under which the recipient of the goods or the contracting authority of the services provided may be liable. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the need to make compulsory VAT and VAT payments prior to the expiry of the deadline for submission for payment; I am referring to the tax period for payment of VAT in the inspection procedure. However, even on this occasion in the Slovenian National Party, we draw attention to payment non-discipline, fraud and so on. Here we ask the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to impose or severely sanction cases of payment non-discipline, because it is payment discipline that has plunged into the collapse of a craftsman, especially a craftsman, because I have never heard of any merchant, lawyer, notoriety or the like. In particular, the competent authorities or institutions should analyse tax evasion and tax non-discipline so far and take appropriate action. So, we fully agree with the following observations and views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance, for example, that due to an effective fight against tax fraud additional amendments and additions to the VAT Act are necessary. Therefore, the draft law also includes measures to combat tax fraud, which have proved to be the most common in Slovenia. I think, above all, what you all know, when trading in motor vehicles, issuing fictitious invoices, misuse or illegal use of VAT identification numbers, straw companies and so on, not to mention. Tax evasion analyses in the Community have also shown that most tax evasions are linked to a specific intra-Community trade regime whereby goods supplied to another Member State are exempt from VAT. The taxable person shall pay the taxable person the consignee of the goods in the Member State to which the goods arrive and in that Member State shall apply the VAT deduction. The gross loss of VAT revenue comes from the so-called tax evasion of the type of tax wheel you all know. This is a systematic VAT evasion by way of frequent purchases and sales of real or fictitious among the participating debtors. It operates on the principle of VAT refund applications, which was not paid into the budget in the supply chain. And this is actually a damage to our country, to our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Once again a pleasant good evening and a greeting also from the Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnarjev, where the Ministry has prepared a good proposal for a law that will be supported by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. What are the main reasons? On the one hand, the law means harmonising legislation with EU directives, and it certainly brings additional positive solutions in the area of tax evasion prevention, lower rates in the field of labour intensive industries, and this is an assessment that it is positive and good in these times of crisis. We have repeatedly pointed out the scope of the grey economy in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club. Even in recent weeks, we have been able to learn how the share of tax evasion has increased. This is certainly due, on the one hand, to not the most optimal tax collection system, but also to the overly high taxation of certain activities that reach abnormal levels and, of course, to those who do so, to certain measures which are contrary to the law. This is why, unfortunately, taxpayers increasingly seek not to show up for a certain part of the tax. We are therefore at the Liberal Democracy Club in the first place, which welcomes the change in VAT reduction, and it is important for all to reduce VAT in labour intensive activities, from higher levels to 8.5%, and these are important services that we need every day. These are hairdressers, restaurant services, repair bicycles, shoes, leather products, renovations and repairs of private apartments, domestic protection services and a whole bunch of them in this group, easy to use everyday services. This also means, on the one hand, a benefit for the consumer, because we expect that there will be a potential reduction in the prices of services and the unloading of the small economy. It is also important for us to say at this point that, in order to relieve the economy, there is a highly welcome change in VAT accounting, as the higher threshold for calculating value added tax after paid realisation from the current EUR 208.000 to a significantly higher sum is EUR 400,000 of taxed transport. We consider this an important counter-crisis measure. Since so far only a few companies have decided to charge VAT after a low threshold has been paid, increasing this threshold to the above-mentioned sum of 400,000 euros will enable several companies to decide on this solution, which will be an additional burden in these times of crisis. Third, no less important set of novelties brought by law are measures to prevent tax fraud. All too many times in Slovenia we have witnessed such or other machinations, such as tax whirlpools, straw companies, "missing traders", so it is only right that we, together with the European Union, take a strong and effective approach to this area. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the proposed solutions, such as faster gathering of information on transactions within the European Union, setting market value as a tax base, insurance to ensure compliance with obligations in the recovery decision-making process, the introduction of a reverse tax mechanism in certain sectors and a system of solidarity, where the payment of value added tax in addition to the supplier of goods or services will also be the responsibility of the person to whom the goods or services have been delivered. A simple, beneficial, welcome impact for the economy, for a small economy, and above all an incentive for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and in the context of price cuts, is also welcome for Slovenians and Slovenians as everyday consumers. Therefore, of course, we unanimously attach to such solutions in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u194	The Social Democrats, together with the other coalition partners in the coalition agreement, have pledged that the good practices of the previous government will not only continue but also be upgraded. One of these practices is the legalisation of the possibility of paying value added tax on realisation, which means that the VAT taxable person must pay only when the invoice which is the basis for the VAT payment is paid, which can mean several months after the actual invoice is issued, due to the non-discipline of payments or extended payment deadlines. The basic rule of the VAT system is that the tax is paid when the invoice is issued, i.e. when the invoice is invoiced, and the possibility of payment is a departure from the system, an exception which the former government has restricted to legal persons with a maximum of EUR 208.000, with the proposed amendment increasing to EUR 400,000, covering a poor half of all taxpayers for VAT, and thus we will take an important and responsible step forward in the challenge of making the tax system as business-friendly as possible, but at the same time as it does not allow abuse or can effectively detect it. In addition, the Social Democrats welcome the new reverse tax liability, particularly in the construction sector, in the field of recycling and waste management, and the measure of solidarity in the payment of VAT between the party which has issued the invoice and the party which has received the invoice, since this will certainly contribute to greater control of VAT payments, especially in tax drills and similar tax evasion attempts. In addition, it is welcome to introduce a reduction in the tax rate for some sectors, including, for example, the domestic protection services sector, which are so important in today's present age of frequent shortages of intergenerational solidarity. The objective of the coalition is clear: to ensure that we all settle our tax obligations so that we can all be taxed less. We social Democrats are pleased that the Government has tackled the challenges of the economic crisis not only with important intervention measures, but also with the continuation of a more friendly, yet more efficient tax system, since this is the way for the most modern battle and a flexible country. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, hello to everyone! The SDS Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, since, in addition to complying with the European rules of the novelty, it provides for the introduction of a lower, 8.5% VAT rate for certain categories of goods and services and the inclusion in the list set out in Annex 1 of the Added Value Tax Act. This introduction of a lower VAT rate has already been proposed by the SDS Group in its amendment to the VAT Act, but the Government rejected the proposal because it considered that the proposed extension of the lower VAT rate for those categories could not achieve greater economic efficiency or could not achieve the objectives set out by the SDS Group in the explanation of its proposal. The government also considered that the reduction in the VAT rate does not necessarily mean a reduction in the prices of goods or services. Interestingly, in explaining this amendment, the Government stated that the European Union estimates that the use of lower rates of these labour-intensive services would have a marked positive impact in particular on unemployment and would help to move consumers from "ordering" activities and the grey economy to the formal economy. The proposed amendment of the law also aims to raise the threshold for the application of a specific VAT accounting regime after a paid realization from €208,000 to €400,000. This increase in the threshold for calculating VAT after a paid realization has already been proposed by the SDS Parliamentary Group in its amendment and this proposal has also been rejected by the Government. In its opinion, the Government then stated that raising the threshold would constitute a significant deviation from the general VAT system, by which VAT is charged after an invoiced realization. On the Committee on Finance, we proposed an amendment to the SDS Group, which provides for this threshold of EUR million, but was not voted on by the Committee. The amendment also introduces a so-called reverse tax mechanism in certain sectors whereby VAT suppliers will be obliged to account for and pay suppliers who will also have the right to deduct VAT. An institution of solidarity shall be established under which, in certain cases, the person to whom the goods or services delivered are liable for payment of VAT in addition to the supplier of the goods or services. The transposition of the Directive on the common VAT system will, inter alia, enable Durs to request the debtor to submit an appropriate guarantee to ensure compliance if he doubts the eligibility of the application. We also welcome the increase in the lump sum for farmers provided for by this amendment to the law. The bill raises the rate of lump sum from 4% to 8% in order to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis on private agriculture. According to the Government, the percentage of flat-rate remuneration has been determined by taking into account macroeconomic statistics for the past three years and is in line with the Council Directive’s requirement that a percentage of flat-rate remuneration should not be fixed in such a way as to result in a higher return on farmers than would be the VAT charged. The new VAT law will therefore be supported by the SDS Group in second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u198	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act are due to the adoption of new or amended directives of the Council of Europe to be progressively transposed into national law, some amendments need to be implemented as early as 1 January of next year and others gradually, until the beginning of 2015, as follows. With effect from 1 January of the following year, the services provided by taxable persons will be taxed at the place of establishment of the contracting authority and not at the place of the service provider as so far. With effect from 1 January 2011, it will be governed by the principle of place of implementation of taxation of the provision of main and auxiliary services in the field of culture, art, sport, science, education, entertainment and similar services. With the start of 2013, a rental place will be established, with the exception of short-term rental of means of transport and private boats. At the beginning of 2015, changes will be made to telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services. On the basis of the proposed legal changes, lower tax rates will also be established for labour intensive services, such as window cleaning, cleaning of private households, smaller repairs of bicycles, shoes, leather products, clothing and household laundry, domestic protection services, hairdressing services, and on the basis of the decision of the parent's working body, also taxation of cut flowers and pots. The lower tax rate is also foreseen for supply, including library book rental in all physical carriers. In addition to these changes, the percentage of flat-rate remuneration increases from 4% to 8%, accounting for purchases of goods and services from flat-rate farmers, and increases the threshold for the application of the special VAT accounting arrangements after the paid realization, from EUR 208.000 to EUR 400,000. Finally, the amendment also imposes additional measures necessary to combat tax fraud and reduces the administrative burden on taxpayers. This is why we will support the proposed amendments to the VAT law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u200	Respectable. The position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act is as follows. The EU Member States' tax system is part of each country's national system, which also applies to the value added tax system. In view of the diversity of the VAT system, the European Community is planning the common objectives of this policy, which are reflected in the Directives adopted. It is therefore only a set of common objectives that individual countries should also pursue by harmonising national rules. The path and procedure to achieve these goals is left to each country individually. In line with current practice, the Government has drafted a new VAT law aimed at transferring as many as four EU Directives relating to: the first to the point of delivery of services, the second to the rules on VAT return to taxable persons established in another Member State, the third to combat tax fraud and the fourth to introduce a lower rate of tax for certain categories of goods and services. The transmission of these groups and the EU's common guidelines is, according to the DeSUS Group's assessment, appropriate and acceptable, as a broad discussion does not create a text for the working body that is in line with our needs and expectations. The essential systemic novelty following the guidelines of the Directive relates to the place of taxation, namely the applicable general rule on the place of destination, which is amended so that instead of the place of taxation where the service provider has its seat, the place of taxation of the place where the contracting authority has its seat. Given that this amended general rule will in all cases only not be applicable, the proposal provides for exceptions or specific rules. According to our assessment, this is a complex change in the VAT taxation system, which requires us to adopt a directive at European level. On the basis of these guidelines and on the basis of the debate on the working body, the DeSUS Members will support this amendment and the amendment of the value added tax law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. There are very large changes and additions to the value added tax law ahead of us. The current law is based on the solutions provided for EU members by Council Directive 2006 in the common system of value added tax. The proposal for a law before us aligns solutions with Council Directives of February 2008, December 2008 and May 2009 while at the same time amending and supplementing certain other solutions to the law. Due to the effective fight against tax fraud, measures to combat tax fraud have been included in the draft law, which have proved to be the most common in Slovenia, for example in the trading of motor vehicles, in the issuing of effective invoices, etc. In the Slovenian People's Party, we particularly support the increase in the percentage of flat-rate remuneration from 4% to 8%, which is charged in the purchase of goods and services from flat-rate farmers, and the increase in the threshold for the application of special VAT accounting arrangements after paid realisation from EUR 208.000 to EUR 400,000. As we say, in the SLS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on it after the adjournment of agenda item 15 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On behalf of the President of the European Union, the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the You want Mrs. Kamner's word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. The Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the conversion of authorised investment companies provides that the capital company must be required within five years at the latest, i.e. up to 13. Seven. 2009 to reshape its investments, as provided for by the Insurance Act. The deadline for reshaping the investment capital or the cover fund has therefore expired. Under the Insurance Act, securities, bonds and other debt securities, shares and other equity securities with an acceptable return, an investment coupon of mutual funds and shares of investment firms, claims on loans, tax returns and other claims, equity and other real estate rights, investments, deposits or certificates of deposits, cash and tangible fixed assets. For investments in equity securities, the law provides that their total value in the assets of the fund shall not exceed 30% of the fund's assets, whereas the value of the individual investment in the market value of the securities shall not exceed 5% of the fund's assets. Since 2005, since adopting its investment policy strategy, the capital company has tried to adjust its investments to legal provisions, but failed to do so until that date. With the economic and financial crisis, in particular the financial crisis, this year this process of reshaping its fund has further deteriorated or slowed down, and if the Capital Society wanted to do so, it could result in the grading of individual securities, which would also have a bad impact on the assets of mainly small shareholders. For this reason, the Government decided to propose to the National Assembly an amendment to this harmonisation deadline for a further 3 years, so that the new deadline would be in force 13. Seven. 2012. I suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thanks again for saying that. At its 9th session, on 7 October 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly with a proposal for treatment or adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its meeting on 11. 9. 2009 proposal for a short-term examination of certificates. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which raises a question with regard to the key article 1 of the legislative proposal regarding the situation in the interim period, in particular from 13 July of this year to the envisaged implementation of the law. None of the qualified applicants submitted amendments to the text under consideration within the time limit of business. In its opening statement, the Minister responsible for Finance pointed out the provision of the basic law or the subject matter of the proposed novelty, whereby the Capital Society was to adapt the assets of the Fund within five years following the conversion of the investment to the provisions on the investments of the covered fund. In view of the extensive set of possible forms of assets of the Fund under the law governing insurance, it was stated that in 2005 the Capital Company adopted the restructuring and management strategy of the First Pension Fund and was actively active in the direction of reducing the number of investments of the Fund in equity securities. However, due to the situation in the financial markets, the alignment of those investments with the provisions of the Insurance Act has been greatly hampered and the capital company has failed to implement the required adjustment without consequences for investor protection. For that reason, the introduction of the proposed amendment solution is an extension of the time limit for the conversion of the assets of the First Pension Fund, pending the maximisation of the value to ensure the disposal under favourable conditions and simultaneous obstacles and the emergence of capital market disturbances as a consequence of the application of the rules so far. The discussion raised the issue of assessing the real possibilities of possible intervention or sanctioning the Agency during the exposed interim period. It follows from the reply provided that that period was the subject of an agreement between the Agency as supervisor and the Capital Company as manager of the Fund. Otherwise, the Agency shall be independent in its operation, but on the basis of the information available, this period shall also be regulated in such a way as to allow investments to continue to be adjusted or allowed to exceed the shares or to exceed the share of shares in a stable manner that corresponds to the established framework of the investment of the credit fund. The Committee then voted on both members of the proposed text and adopted them. No amendments were adopted in the draft law on the working body either. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and amending the authorised investment companies be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. The law itself has Article 2. We fully accept government reasoning and due to the market situation and the financial crisis, it is not a good time to harmonise the investment structure. It is therefore appropriate to extend the period from five to eight years, i.e. until 13.7.2012. Let us hope that the market and financial situation will be rectified and that it is possible to resale investments under more favourable conditions to maximize their value.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. The first pension fund is intended solely to cover the payment of pension benefits from the insurance policies of supplementary pension insurance. They were created by replacing pensions with pensions owned by natural persons who did not choose to replace themselves and exchanged for the policy directly on the basis of the law as of 31.12.2002. The First Pension Fund Act provides that the Capital Company must comply with the provisions of the Insurance Act no later than five years after the creation of the First Pension Fund of this Fund. This deadline expired on 13 July, as stated on 13 July 2009, and the Insurance Act provides that the value of investments in equity securities shall not exceed 30% of the total value of the fund and that the value of the investment of each market paper shall not exceed 5% of the fund's assets. The value of the investment in individual non-marketable securities shall not exceed 1% of the fund's assets and investments in limited liability companies shall not be allowed. On 13 July 2009, the First Pension Fund still had 74.79% of its investments in securities and 2.81% of its investments. As it is said, due to the situation in the financial markets, the capital company could not make the required adjustment within this period, at least without negative consequences for investors. The draft law thus provides for an extension of the deadline for compliance with the provisions of the Insurance Act. In the SDS Group, we had a question regarding the situation in the interim period, from 13 July 2009 to the envisaged implementation of the law, regarding the possible sanctioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, but according to information from the Ministry of Finance, this is regulated so that investments continue to be adjusted in a manner consistent with the underlying fund's investment framework. As I said in the introduction, we will support the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the conversion of authorised investment companies is necessary because on 13 July of this year a five-year period has expired to comply with the provisions of the law governing insurance. The Insurance Act provides that the value of investments in equity securities shall not exceed 30% of the fund's assets, but that the value of the investment in each market paper shall not exceed 5% of the fund's assets and the value of the investment in each non-marketable paper shall not exceed 1% of the fund. Investment in limited liability companies is not allowed under this law at all. Since, despite the adoption of the restructuring and management strategy of the First Pension Fund, the Capital Society has failed to comply with the provisions of the Insurance Act within the prescribed investment time frame, it is necessary to extend the harmonisation period for three years in order to avoid criminal sanctions, since the imposition of covert assets is contrary to the Insurance Act among the worst infringements and could consequently lead to the envisaged control measures. We will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u214	Your Honor! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies is as follows. The bill, which is now on the agenda, is of a purely technical nature. This is a change or extension of the period within which the First Pension Fund must comply with the provisions on the investments of the covered fund, as set out in the law governing insurance. It is now the legal deadline of five years, after the creation of a cover fund, which has already expired on 13 June of this year. In the wake of the entry into force of the basic law, and even in the case of the subsequent amendment of the investments of the First Pension Fund, their structure was not fully known and it was therefore provided for by law that the Capital Society was able to reconcile the viability and liquidity of the First Pension Fund adequately with the maturity of the insurance claims covered by the First Pension Fund. The capital company, as manager of the First Pension Fund, then assessed that the investment structure of the First Pension Fund could be aligned with the provisions of the law governing insurance within 5 years. However, it appears that the latter did not work out, so the current government avoids sanctions that are threatening to exceed this, proposing an extension of this period from five to eight years. In order to avoid the unloving act of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, Members of DeSUS will unanimously support this amendment of the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. The Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the conversion of authorised investment companies provides that the Capital Company must comply with the provisions of the Insurance Act no later than 5 years after the creation of the First Pension Fund of the First Pension Fund. The deadline for matching investments was 13. Seven. 2009 In 2005, the capital company adopted the restructuring and management strategy of the First Pension Fund and worked actively to reduce the number and shares of the fund's investments in equity securities. Nevertheless, it has not yet been able to properly harmonise the investment structure. In view of the current market situation and the financial crisis, which is not favourable to the sale of equity shares at an appropriate price, we support the proposal for a solution extending this harmonisation period for three years. We will certainly support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Friend. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u218	It's all right, Madam Vice President. As has already been said, in 2004, the Act on Supplements to the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the conversion of the authorised investment companies, which provided that the Capital Society must comply with the provisions in the investment of the credit fund, as prescribed by the law governing insurance, no later than five years after the creation of the First Pension Fund. We've heard that this deadline has expired, that it was 13. Seven. 2009 and a reasonable extension of the law for three years. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party we will give "yes" to these amendments to this law, but on this occasion I would also like to draw attention to something else. The law is editorial in nature or legalizes what we have already missed. But there's something else that bothers us. In the Republic of Slovenia, securities are easily and easily invested, and in particular in this fund, which guarantees the social security of a wider range of people - without sanctions, they invest in funds that we do not even have an insight into. The debate raised the issue of assessing the real potential for possible intervention in sanctioning, but this did not actually happen. We also have other cases that show negatively that millions are being lost in this way. I do not want to see that tomorrow we will talk about the threat to the pension fund and that we do not have the money to pay our current liabilities due to pointless investments in the past. In this area, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is going to introduce new control mechanisms and, in this context, our well-meaning comment on this. We'll support the change of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the decision will be taken today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or during the time to be announced. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDER, ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE TONASION Tax, CLOSED PROCEDURE. Would you like Mrs. Helena Kamnar's word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. The Tonage Tax Act, which has been applicable in Slovenia since 2008, is being supplemented this time to comply with Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. In the past, Slovenia has obtained the consent of the European Commission to implement the State aid scheme for maritime transport, provided that it implements this scheme in its national legislation by 2009. With the amendments to this law, we carry out this commitment by introducing two important amendments to the law. For the first time, the obligation to access the tonnage tax system must be extended to all related persons of the debtor who joined the scheme. These connected persons can be both residents of Slovenia and business units of non-residents who have a business unit in Slovenia if they meet the prescribed conditions under the law. Secondly, it is an obligation for the taxable person to include in the tonnage tax system all ships with which he operates and meets the conditions under the law. Both of these laws are also necessary in order to avoid tax evasion. By amending the law before you, we are implementing the maritime state aid system into domestic legislation, so I suggest you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Member of Renata Brunskola to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. At its 9th meeting, on 7 October, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tonnage Tax Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The meeting was also attended by the Minister responsible for Finance, the representative of the Finance Ministry and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. At the beginning of the second hearing of the Committee on Finance, the Minister of Finance further explained the main solutions to the text submitted. He stressed that the text of the Tonage Tax Act has been applied in Slovenia since the beginning of 2008 also on the basis of the approval of the European Commission for a State Aid Scheme as provided for in this Act. This is more favourable taxation, essentially for state aid. Prior to the approval of that scheme, the European Commission requested Slovenia to complete the basic text by including the European Union guidelines for the area in question specifically for maritime transport. We are implementing this commitment by means of a proposal for amendments to the Tonage Tax Act, which follows the arrangements laid down in the Community guidelines to satisfy the above-mentioned ground, while at the same time the proposal includes certain amendments and additions to the basic text which Member States of the European Union must take into account in the procedures for notification of State aid schemes under individual domestic laws. On the basis described above, a single approach is introduced for all residents of Slovenia and non-resident business units who have a business unit in Slovenia or are defined as related persons of the debtor who approach the tonnage tax system while meeting other accession conditions. In addition, an obligation is imposed on the taxable person to include all ships with which he operates in a system of tonnage tax that meets the conditions laid down in this Act. The other changes represent an upgrade to the basics, while at the same time eliminating certain shortcomings or uncertainties that have hampered the smooth implementation of the law since the results of the practice. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. We support the proposal for a tonnage tax in the SDS Group. In Slovenia, the Tonage Tax Act has already been in force since 1 January 2008 and is also in force on the basis of the approval of the European Commission for the State aid scheme provided for in this Act. It is more favourable taxation and therefore essentially State aid. The European Commission requested Slovenia to supplement the law in 2009 by taking into account Community guidelines for the area in question prior to the approval of the scheme. So, the area of shipping by sea. Slovenia has made a commitment and is implementing it by means of this amendment and by supplementing the law. The obligation for all connected persons to join the tonnage tax system are residents of Slovenia and business units of non-residents who have a business unit in Slovenia. A taxable person who approaches the system, if he meets other conditions under the law of this obligation, must include in the tonnage tax system all ships with which he operates and meets the conditions under the law. In fact, following the so far resolution of the Tonage Tax Act, the taxpayers can choose which ships will be included in the tonnage tax system upon accession to the tonnage tax system. Thus, the amendment of the law means that tax avoidance should not take place. As I have already mentioned, we support the proposal for a law in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u226	The position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tonage Tax Act is as follows. If we are based on the fact that Slovenia is also a maritime country and that it is obliged to take full advantage of its advantages in this area, then we say that the European Union has set itself a safe, efficient and environmentally friendly transport as a long-term goal and that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, must pursue this objective. Many countries offer very favourable tax conditions for maritime conservation and development, promoting the employment of European seafarers and maintaining the general competitiveness of ships, significantly lower taxes, which means that European companies are entering their ships into the ship registers of these countries and thus transferring their business headquarters to the so-called countries where it is more favourable. Slovenia created such a favourable tax environment by adopting the Tonage Tax Act in 2007. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that Slovenian maritime carriers need to be given development and competitiveness compared to other shipowners by establishing such a fiscal policy for the treatment of shipowners that allows the reduction of labour costs in line with the guidelines and recommendations of the European Union, which means that economic measures must be adopted that are comparable to economic measures in the most important maritime countries of the European Union. This area, from a tax perspective in view of other tax areas, represents a more favourable tax environment in particular with a view to ensuring the conditions for the development of a Slovenian shipbuilding capable of operating on the world market and in accordance with the Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport adopted by the European Commission. On this basis, shipowners are burdened with the payment of certain duties, for example, instead of the corporate income tax, a tonnage tax has been introduced for shipowners, thus creating better conditions for the employment of seafarers and also for competitiveness. The European Commission considers such a form of taxation to be State aid, which it also allows under specific conditions. Therefore, the tonnage tax imposed by the Member States must pursue all these objectives. Taking into account the European Commission's guidelines, we are therefore required to supplement the basic tonnage tax law in the work relating to the debtors, the connected persons for whom a compulsory approach to the system of this tax is required, and in the work relating to the systematic integration of all shipowners with whom the debtors operate. To meet the commitments of the European Commission, the DeSUS Group will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the tonnage tax law. The law will include provisions that follow the arrangements laid down by Community guidelines, including the condition that the European Commission approves the State aid scheme. As a result, some amendments and additions to the applicable provisions of the Tonnage Tax Act are included in the draft law. The main solutions to the bill are a mandatory approach to the tonnage tax system for all residents of Slovenia and non-residents in Slovenia who have a business unit defined as connected persons of the debtor who approach the tonnage tax system and meet other conditions for accession and inclusion of all ships operated by the debtor who fulfils the conditions in that system. Other solutions in the draft law are determined according to the experience of the tax authority and the taxpayers in the implementation of the law and will address certain shortcomings or uncertainties that impede the implementation of the law. Such a solution is to propose the final payment of the tax, after which the taxable person also pays the tax. One of the revenues from international shipping operations, namely the revenue from the provision of management services, in respect of which the European Commission has commented on the regulation so far that it is too loose and indeterminate, will also be defined in a different way. Because of all the above, as I said at the outset, we will support the amendment of the tonnage tax law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the decision will be taken today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Call Qualifications. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I ask Minister Ivan Svetlik, does he want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u230	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The amendments and additions to the National Professional Qualifications Act have been the result of practical experience in the implementation of this system, which is continuously monitored by the contractor, the Slovenian Centre for Vocational Education, and also on the basis of the OECD recommendations. The whole system aims to assess informally and informally acquired knowledge in an appropriate social, labour and financial manner in order to make achievements in this area visible and evident by a public charter on national professional qualifications. The bill will bring an improved system and better transparency in the system of national professional qualifications, in line with existing implementation, and consequently improved opportunities for an individual, as well as for his employability, thereby reducing possible social exclusion. The amendment of the law will primarily improve the functioning of the information system, which provides information on national professional qualifications, professional standards, professional and professional education, implementing procedures to ensure the validation of national professional qualifications, inspection and certification committees, rules and qualification structures, as well as quality and reliable advice to candidates, is one of the acquisitions. The changes go mainly in the following ways: in practice, the deadline for decisions on complaints is prolonged; we are removing the administrative obstacle, so that professional standards and catalogues are no longer required to be published in writing, but are being published electronically; the same procedure for checking and certifying these qualifications is also laid down for skippers from the formal human resources education system - as far as it has been possible to date; it specifies the work and obligations of professional staff of the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education - this will also be the basis for education and monitoring of the work of advisers - and, finally, the maintenance and development of the information system within the national information centre for professional qualifications, which will help all who benefit from this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and disabled persons to be the working body of the mother. I give my word to a board member, mag. For the presentation of the Committee's report to Franc Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u232	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. At its 9th session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on National Professional Qualifications submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption to the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposed State Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the legislative and technical aspects and commented on Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 12. The Committee was also presented with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the proposal for a law. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. The members of the Committee received proposals for amendments to the Committee, which were prepared on the basis of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and adopted by the Committee without discussion. During the second hearing, the representative of the proposer gave the introduction a supplementary explanation of the bill, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented a written opinion and the representative of the State Council said that the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour and Health and the disabled supported the bill. On the basis of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 12. Finally, he voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The essence of this system of national professional qualifications is that there is a possibility that knowledge, skills, ability to carry out a particular profession will be confirmed. The National Professional Qualifications Act, adopted in 2000, introduced such a system of verification and validation of these qualifications, which sets out the procedure for the preparation of standards, expertise and their verification and validation. The proposal points out that the emphasis of the law is based on learning achievements, irrespective of the form of skills or ability. The certification of national professional qualifications shall, in principle, be directed only to adults and shall take place on the basis of direct evidence of knowledge, skills, ability or on the basis of documents and other evidence collected in the individual's map. In 2006, she assigned a new task to the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education, namely monitoring the certification system. The first results were published in 2008 entitled Monitoring the Certificate System. According to the drafter, a project was also carried out in Slovenia within the framework of the OECD to recognise informal and informal learning, which included a national report for Slovenia. The recommendations and advice and the identified problems in this system, which we are addressing with a witnessing novelty, are particularly important. Today, one of the key components of a successful society is lifelong learning, and this requires the creation of a new culture of verification and validation of knowledge, skills and abilities, including those acquired outside the formal education system, and of course their recognition in the formal system and in the labour market. European findings show that standards are often too narrow and do not include knowledge acquired outside the school. The novel assures that methods and standards will ensure objectivity, validity and reliability. In our Group, we are really convinced that a complementary bill, as adopted on the home body, will bring improved transparency of professional qualifications and consequently improve employment opportunities and reduce social exclusion, so we will support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the National Professional Qualifications Act. We agree with the proposaler's assessment that changes are necessary, as they will ensure that methods and standards ensure objectivity, validity and reliability. The fact is that the system has to be credible, and it needs to be developed in such a way that businesses and employers and other users will in particular trust the achievements of the evaluation, since credibility is closely linked to the transparency of the procedure and the institutions. The whole system aims to ensure that informally and informally acquired knowledge, skills and skills obtain adequate social, work and financial evaluation in order to make the achievements visible and evident by a public document on national professional qualifications. Amendments and additions will regulate the uniform management of records of certificates issued, which is important in terms of data collection for analysis, also remove practical problems and administrative obstacles related to the adoption and publication of professional standards and catalogues, and provide for the same process of checking and certifying national professional qualifications for school leavers. The proposal also sets out some new tasks of the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education, such as monitoring the work of consultants for the composition of the collection map and the maintenance and development of the national information centre for professional qualifications. The draft law also provides that the State Examination Centre should organise its work in monitoring the work of the commissions by attending at least once a year the national professional qualifications of the individual operator. In the DeSUS Group, we would therefore like the good effects of the amended and amended National Professional Qualifications Act to be demonstrated in as many areas as possible - more than a hundred, the proposaler believes - so that it will truly bring about improved transparency of professional qualifications and consequently improve employment opportunities and reduce the social unemployment of the unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the SLS Group, we will support amendments to the law. Especially at a time when unemployment so dramatically increased and again reached 100,000 unemployed, it was confirmed that it was right to introduce a system of national professional qualifications in 2000. The essence of this system is that it is possible to confirm the knowledge, skills and ability to carry out a particular profession or part of the profession, regardless of how the knowledge has been acquired. The whole system allows everyone to gain adequate social, work and financial evaluation, their achievements become visible and evident by a public document on national professional qualifications and easier to obtain or maintain work. We support the changes and additions arising from the ongoing monitoring of the certification system, which is taken care of by the Centre for Vocational Education, and the recommendations and solutions resulting from the OECD International Project. It will be more uniform to keep records of certificates issued, which is important in terms of data collection for analysis. What is even more important to us in the SLS Group is the fact that practical problems and administrative obstacles related to the adoption and publication of professional standards and catalogues are being addressed, and the same procedure for verifying and certifying these qualifications is also laid down for school dropouts. The law will bring improved transparency of professional qualifications for the whole country and consequently improve employment opportunities and reduce social exclusion. That is why we will support the changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u240	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Minister Ivan Svetlik has already given the reasons for amendments and additions to the law in his application. They are expected to introduce methods and standards that ensure objectivity, validity and reliability. The system must be credible and developed in such a way as to ensure that businesses or employers and other users have precise definitions of professional qualifications. The proposals follow common principles, provide basic guidelines at European level, which are based on components of different national systems. The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a law, as the drafter took into account the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. It should be said, however, that the comments of a legal nature in this case were relatively large, indicating all the problems both in the introduction of appropriate professional terminology and inadequacies resulting from overriding, meaningful overlap and duplication of certain content. Since this is a highly professional area that has not triggered substantive differences or conceptual dilemmas, the key efforts in drafting the proposals have been aimed at precisely these legal and technical definitions. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has already endorsed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service with amendments, also by the proposer, and therefore the Group of Social Democrats supports that proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u242	Your Honor! The essence of the system of national professional qualifications is that there is an opportunity to confirm the knowledge, skills and ability to carry out a particular profession or part of the profession, regardless of how knowledge has been acquired; it can, through work experience, voluntary work in free time, through participation in courses and so on. The amendments and additions to the National Professional Qualifications Act will further improve the transparency and credibility of procedures and the acquired national professional qualifications certificates. A uniform record of certificates issued shall be regulated, practical problems shall be addressed, such as in practice an unattainable deadline for the decision to appeal, a change from three to eight days, the administrative barriers to the adoption and publication of professional standards and catalogues shall be removed. A single verification system is also being established for school leavers. Some of the new tasks of the Centre for Vocational Education, Education and Admission of Counsellors in the process of verifying and certifying national professional qualifications, maintaining and developing the national information centre for professional qualifications. In monitoring the work of the Commission, the State Examination Centre should organise its work by attending at least once a year to verify and certify national professional qualifications for each operator. In the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wrote that we will pay particular attention to young people with fewer opportunities, school dropouts, addicts and others and give them the so-called second option. Since the amendment of the National Professional Qualifications Act brings some changes in this direction, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure for Recognition of Invitational Qualifications to Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the Conduct of Regulated Calls on Activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Do you want Dr. Ivan Svetlik's word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u244	Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, the free movement of persons and services between Member States shall apply. This includes, in particular, the right for nationals of the Member States to exercise a profession as self-employed or employed persons in a Member State other than the country in which they have acquired their professional qualifications. In order to achieve this objective, Directive 2005/36 of the European Community on the recognition of professional qualifications has been adopted, which has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order in addition to the sectoral statutory acts with the umbrella Act on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for European Union citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the conduct of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Directive 2006/123 of the European Community on services in the internal market was also adopted in 2000, which constitutes a complementary regulation in this field. Since we have more than 300 regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia, systematic changes and additions to this law are needed to rationalise the management of administrative procedures, to remove administrative obstacles, to fulfil the duties of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Commission, the most recent adoption of the bill also constitutes a necessity to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the European acquis. The key amendments proposed by this law are as follows: the ministries have the option, following the example of foreign countries, to transfer to other competent authorities the duties defined in the law. The conditions for the provision of occasional service to providers are laid down. Therefore, all tenderers who offer occasional services to the Republic of Slovenia by carrying out a regulated profession or activity must report to the competent authority before the first performance. It is laid down to extend the maximum time limit for decisions to be issued after recognition of professional qualifications in accordance with the Directive in order to avoid decisions taken outside the legal time limit. It is new to determine in which cases the competent authority may refuse recognition of professional qualifications and allow the possibility of issuing a negative decision. It is also a new provision on electronic records that allows the provision of relevant information to both domestic users and the European Commission, providing a register of regulated professions, for which an appropriate application is also prepared. But we need the law in order to be able to introduce it at all. Articles were added to the speech on administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States and the exchange of sensitive personal data, and provisions governing this area should also be added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give my word to a member, mag. Mr Franz Žnidaršič, for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u246	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor Minister. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 9th session, on 8. Ten. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Federation for the Performing of Regular Occupations or Activities in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 36th meeting that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered the draft law on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. It made comments to the proposed text on Articles 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 19. The representative of the proposer presented in the introductory explanation the amendment and additions to the draft law, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the proposals for amendments to the committee took over all the comments made by that service, and the Commission of the State Social Protection Council, and the work, health and disability supported the adoption of the law following a reduced procedure in its opinion. The members and members of the Committee agreed to align the proposed amendments and to supplement the law with the European legal order and pointed out greater coherence between the activities of the applicant and the legislative and legal services of the Government. Since the legislative and legal service of the Government has obviously overlooked certain shortcomings, then the matter has been remedied by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee established and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 17, 18 and 19. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much and I suggest that you remain as an advocate, because you have the floor in the context of the presentation of the positions of the Group on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a new law before us. According to our assessment, this is mainly about rationalising administrative procedures, which include the possibility of transferring the management of procedures and other obligations from the competent ministries to other competent authorities, the possibility of extending the deadline for issuing decisions and the time limit for issuing opinions to the Chambers and other competent authorities. We particularly welcome the fact that each body will still have to make a decision within the appropriate time limits provided that it fully identifies all the factual and legal circumstances for decision-making. The proposal also foresees the introduction of electronic records maintained by the competent authorities and will serve primarily the staff of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to facilitate the performance of the responsibilities of the Ministry to the European Commission. But how much more quickly, efficiently and rational will work after the adoption of this law will be done, and it will soon be shown when the law is put into practice. The purpose of the law is good in any case, so we support it in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you again very much for your word. Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the SLS Group, we will support the law because it is a matter of alignment with the European acquis. We always support options that facilitate and streamline the management of administrative procedures, which will be achieved through a single entry point and the introduction of electronic records for reporting and transmission of statistical data, of course, while ensuring the protection of personal data. In this way, we hope that Slovenians and Slovenians, as European citizens, will be able to implement their services more quickly in the European market. The Government shall also introduce a rationalisation of the management of administrative procedures in recognition of professional qualifications by transferring the management of procedures from the Ministry to other competent authorities and by extending the time limit for the issue of decisions and the time limit for the issue of opinions by chambers or other competent authorities. In doing so, we expect the authorities to continue to decide on the relevant deadlines, ensuring that the body has fully identified in the procedure all the factual and legal circumstances for decision-making. The exercise of jurisdiction must, of course, be determined by a specific law or invitation to tender. With the amendments of the committee, the bill has also been corrected in this part, so there is no reservation that Members of the SLS would not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Citizens of the Member States of the European Union makes sense, of course, and we also support it in the Slovenian National Party. Rationalisation and, of course, a simplified procedure is a fundamental objective followed by the law, so that each body will still have to make a decision within the appropriate time limits, but of course under the pre-condition to fully determine all factual and legal circumstances for decision-making. The use of the European information system, which allows for the exchange of information and data between countries, the competent authorities of the EU Member States, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation, is also envisaged to facilitate the collection of information, which we also think is important for decision-making in the process of recognition of professional qualifications. In short, we estimate that this is a law that is meaningful and will facilitate and rationalise procedures for managing administrative procedures in the recognition of professional qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Marian Križman will present his views.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications of citizens and Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the conduct of regular professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law does not mean significant substantive movements, but we cannot say that it is irrelevant or even unnecessary. Membership in Slovenia in the European Union also means constantly adapting to the common rules that we must transpose into our legal order. That's exactly what the bill means. In accordance with the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, the deadline for issuing decisions, obtaining opinions from the competent institutions or authorities of the host Member State shall be extended. This shall confirm the receipt of the application within one month of receipt and inform the applicant of any missing documents. The competent authority shall then give the host Member State a duly reasoned decision, in any event not later than three months from the date on which the applicant's complete documentation was submitted. This period may be extended by one month. Under the Services Directive, the law introduces the possibility of electronic reporting of a service provider via a single contact point. In doing so, the proposal also allows for the transfer of the powers of administration of the procedure and of all obligations arising under this Act to other competent authorities with a specific law or a public tender. This will make it possible to work more effectively. The ministries are understaffed and underqualified for this work. We will also remove some administrative obstacles, as ministries now need to obtain opinions from the competent professional bodies. It will also facilitate administrative cooperation between the competent authorities that maintain registers of expert data. For this reason, as has already been said, the proposed law will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u256	Your Honor! It is the law of the so-called implementation of European rules. This is a law that could be placed in the scope of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education. The law is good, concrete and useful, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. As practice has shown in many cases, however, it will likely get stuck in its implementation. Why? In Slovenia, informal education and its validation are mainly in the domain of NGOs, which strive to take all so-called educational activities, such as additional education and work activities, into account for young people in their formal educational process as a starting point in the world of work. Many are familiar with the Nefix project, which is a project for the recognition, enforcement and recording of informally acquired knowledge acquired by an individual from the 14th year forward. We can also talk about this in the MEPI project. And the role of the state? In recent days, we have been appalled by the information that the Minister of Labour, rather non-chalantly, has responded to students' demands for easier access to the labour market, we even have the Minister of Higher Education, who, because of his own egotism or his own desire to manage a certain department and therefore a suspicious ambition for profit, will change the decision of the Government with his left hand, which would link the higher education area to research. Such actions really raise the question of whether the Government is pursuing the interests of young people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we hope that by adopting this law and the National Professional Qualifications Act, the Government will be forced to actively engage in this area, which, as I said at the outset, is part of several ministries. And it is in the interest not only of young people but of all Slovenes and Slovenes that the integration of the departments, regardless of the field of work, is in the interest of all Slovenes and Slovenes. We have announced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill and terminate this item on the agenda. In half an hour, we will move on to the vote on the agenda items that we have discussed today, and I predict that the vote will begin at 8 p.m. and 30 minutes. I'm adjourning the session until 8:00 and 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u258	Dear colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Zvonk Černač on the implementation of the promises made by the Prime Minister. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please, Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u259	We will, of course, support this debate in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The unfulfilled promises made by the President of the Government over the past year are so much so that the debate, if you vote for it to be extremely colourful, will touch on a whole range of areas from regionalism, where it has been promised that the province will begin in the first half of this year, to government visits in the field that is not; to ensure that regulators who are independent of informing the President of the Government if any pressures are to be put forward - the biggest by his left hand, Mr. Milan M. Squikla - to that end, we will also talk about the economy, the reduction of payment deadlines for 30 days, which have been accompanied by a round of applause by crafts and will not and will not, of course, for a long time, be realized; to the personnel tsunami that does not exist, while the peaks of all important, major, economic companies of public enterprises are replaced by the rules that follow the political direction of KAS. In this debate there will be an opportunity to hear a lot of things, but I doubt that we can only raise what is happening and what has happened through the debate - a free fall in economic growth. Slovenia has fallen by 8% this year or by the end of the year, but not only economic growth, but also the reputation of the Government has fallen. Also because many of the promises that were made were not fulfilled, even because there is much confusion between what is said and what is actually happening. This decline in public support is today the lowest in the history of this country, in a situation where Slovenia needs a competent team, a team to enjoy the confidence of the public. In a situation where not even the ruling coalition on one relatively small change in this team is able to harmonise and agree, this debate on these unfulfilled promises would still be necessary. That's why we're counting on you to support us. In this debate, we would also talk about what the President of the Government has been talking about today, about Croatia, and about what has been said again today, and which is not true that this arbitration agreement brings us a solution to the border before Croatia enters the European Union. I therefore invite you to support this debate at this point as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. The victory of the noble deer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we will support this proposal because we think it is very meaningful. There is a lot to talk about, and there is a lot to be revealed. After all, it was said today about the provincialisation. The landscape is moving more and more and more, but the landscapes need to be introduced, but not just like the initial plans and ideas, but for 24 provinces 12 and so on. It is necessary to base the historical Slovenian province, namely Styria, Koroška, Kranjska, Primorska and Prekmurje or Pomurska. We need to look for this here, because it is actually about the sovereignty of these countries, which mean the country's competitiveness of the Slovenian national space. And if we only talk about this issue, the objective of this debate will be achieved. I am afraid that there will have to be a lot of clarification for the gentlemen of the Government, but that is also the purpose of listening here, in Parliament, to the clever words, then to put it all together on this basis. In fact, we need to build on this basis so that we can protect Slovenian national space, because if we go differently than some intend to, even with the aim of regionalisation and the establishment of common provinces on the one hand with Italy, on the other hand with Austria and the like, we will only lose the Slovenian national body even more. In short, we will absolutely support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jakob Preseknik, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Mr Jakob Preseknik's question on saving the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the expense of the weakest segments of the population. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. At the beginning of my question, I have found that the social situation of Slovenian citizens and citizens has deteriorated significantly or worse, and I have therefore asked the President of the Government why the Government has decided to stabilise public finances in the account and the burden of the most vulnerable and affected segments of the population; to raise them in the budget that we have on the tables and which will be accepted in about a month, to increase the costs of office and general material, to increase the costs of various other services, which, according to our assessment, are among them at this moment also those that are not necessarily needed; and to indicate in which areas, however, it would be possible to achieve a greater inflow into the budget and thus to enable new jobs in Slovenia. I therefore propose that this debate be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Explanation of the vote in its own name Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you. I will support the proposal for a debate on this. The Prime Minister of the Government spoke today about the government having a vision. The Government's vision shall be drawn up in budgetary documents. We have the 2010 and 2011 budgets on the table. I think these visions can scare us. In addition to each Slovenian being in charge of 8,000 euros at the end of 2011, the vision of this government is also to save for those who no longer have a place to save. Pressing the belt where the last hole is already turned. There's no more holes on the belt to save money. And an increase in spending where, of course, savings should be made, and this is in public administration, in the public sphere. With more than 100,000 unemployed by the end of the year this year, we can ask ourselves whether any of those who will land in the institution this year have landed from the public sphere, except for those who have been hit by your staff tsunami. I think they're very rare or none, and I think that the government, in this case also the President of the Government, is getting savings in the wrong place. An example is also important in these matters. If the government were serious in this area, then in the 2010 and 2011 budgets we could read some other figures rather than those, as they are now mentioned in them. At a time when we are talking about the need to save on those who have €400,500, we record monthly data on the millions of prize payments to leaders in this country. Over 100 million euros per year is being spent in the pockets of individual businessmen, and in these circumstances the government intends to seek a budget deficit from those who cannot, without wanting to, but cannot save any more. That is why I will support the debate on this issue, because it would be good to hear whether there is another vision, because the one voted through the documents is extremely negative.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name, Miran Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, personally and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, support this initiative, or this question, because, finally, it also relates to the situation in Pomurje, Prekmurje. The matter came so far, today we talked about the developmental law for Prekmurje - sorry, sorry, for Pomurje. I always miss it because I'm more attached to Prekmurje. I think that these matters could be included somewhere in this debate. I will not explain the problem in the Pomurska region for long and wide, because we will process it in detail on Thursday. I myself believe in a really detailed debate on this subject and in listening to all Members about the critical situation in the Pomur region. Today, even in terms of doubts about the adoption of this law, a number of things have been said in the adoption of the agenda. But if I did not get away from the darkness, I would still appeal to all the Members and Members present, to the House of Respect, to understand our hardships in the Pomurska region and that it is likely that a number of other regions will turn out, because the situation appears to be getting worse for even Slovenia. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 to 44. [[30 votes in favour]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the positions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the Republic of Croatia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, has proved that he does not understand what is going on with neighbouring Croatia and that his views are completely wrong. Not only does he not know history, geography, law, the fact that he even denies the highest authority of law with us, Professor Buchar. But it seems to me that legal knowledge is gathered in spite of everything at Law School, not in the FDV, in the Politology Department. I think there is an urgent need to discuss this subject, to open up this topic and to address it in such a way that the facts will come to fruition. The facts are hidden for a purpose. This purpose, it seems, is not yet fully known, but I am sure that this purpose will show up, if not earlier, within half a year - what is behind such a position represented by Mr Pahor. I don't think we should allow that kind of attitude. We must demand that the matter be opened. Unfortunately, I am sure that the result will be 30 for and 44 against, as it has always been, and it will be, because the ruling coalition is no matter what is with our homeland, it is important for them to win, break, roll, roll like bulldozers, everything else is not important. They forget they only have one country. We in the opposition are aware of that. The coalition gentlemen are not aware of this, forget that Yugoslavia is no longer and that Croatia is no longer a common republic in the SFRY. This country, if anything, we must remember, killed, slaughtered Slovenian citizens and civilians in World War II. And not only in Jasenovac, but also in Slovenian villages, the Ustashas, the Croats robbed, slaughtered, slaughtered. And I don't think we should just let this go. After all, one would expect the SD to be the one that will protect the integrity of the national liberation fight and realize that the partisans also fought against the Ustashas, against Croatia, the "independent" state. We'll see. I hope we still get more votes than 30.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of the group? On behalf of the SLS mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. We will, of course, support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party, because we are assessing that it is going to continue - and this is obviously going to happen in the future - more or less blurring. Unfortunately, the arbitration agreement is actually accessible to all media in one way or another, while in Slovenian politics we are somehow afraid to remove the markings in confidence so that we can discuss this agreement in public. While the government party is conducting a certain type of deception of the Slovenian public. The arbitration agreement is very, very clear and it would be appropriate to discuss it this way. In particular, in that first point, which speaks of establishing a land and sea border that will be determined exclusively, only by international law and not by the principle of fairness and not by good neighbourly relations, and not by everything that is stated all the time. It is right to discuss this in detail and to talk about it as soon as possible, so that the public will be given the right and accurate information, but not that they are secretly hiding you, so that they cannot and must not be spoken of in public, but that more or less is simply misleading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We continue the interruption of item 2 of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on public meetings in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 1. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the third item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Arms Act, in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 39(1). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 39(1) shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The amendment to Article 39, the first amendment to Article 39, was therefore irrelevant. We decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 4th item of the agenda - this is the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda - this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act under the ordinary procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Value Added Tax Act. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. (The vote was 75.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies, the reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I am moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Tonage Tax Act. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Occupations, Qualifications under the Regular Procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure for the Recognition of Professional Qualifications of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the Conduct of Regulatory Occupations or Activities in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Before that I also point to Znaže žanja, at 9 a.m. there will be a presentation of knowledge of the problem of swimming in Slovenia. I think the topic is interesting, and I recommend it.
