ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u1	Due to the meeting of the College, which is still in session, today's 6th meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 9:30 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I apologize for the half-delay that was caused by the Collegiate meeting. I begin with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Anton Rop, Milan Gumzar and Mag. Andrea Richter. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DANGEROUS GOOD TRANSPORT LEVEL IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. I don't see any government representatives in the hall yet. We'll wait a minute. We have to be kind here because we've moved the session ourselves. I expect government representatives to come to the hall. Representatives of the Government participated in the Internal Policy Committee and are on their way from the Committee. I could not say this only for the Government, but also perhaps for the consideration of the Internal Policy Committee. Madam Secretary, the choir is waiting for you. So once again, the draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u3	The Honorable President. Dear Members and Members. The main objective of the proposed novel is to align the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union. A Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods was adopted in September 2008. With it, the completion of the directive on the transport of dangerous goods was combined into one legislative document while the text is adapted to technical and technological progress. That was why the law had to be amended and amended. However, the second part of the amendments concerns the criminal provisions of the law which are adapted to or dependent on the gravity of the offences. Adapting the penal provisions of the law will increase the effectiveness of control. The law provides that higher fines are imposed for serious breaches of the rules on the transport of dangerous goods than for minor infringements. The fines are expressed in euros. So far, the law has provided for the same sanctions, regardless of the severity of the offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. At its meeting on 6 May 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. More specifically, following a reduced procedure, as decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 19th meeting on 24 March. The Committee had before it a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and also an opinion from the Council of State. In the introductory explanation, the Minister or State Secretary said what we had just heard. The legislative and legal service, however, had some comments on the proposal, which have been summarised by the motions. In particular, Articles 3, 6, 8, 10 and 11. The proposal for a law was also addressed and supported by the Commission for State regulation in the Council of State. The Committee fully adopted the amendments of the coalition groups and prepared the text before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Damian Perne on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods should be regulated in accordance with Directive 2008/68-EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of September 2008 on the inland transport of dangerous goods. The text of the Directive is adapted to technical and technological progress while at the same time the Directive is being adopted in one legislative document. The new directive is thus intended to modernise and harmonise existing legislation. The main solution to the law is based on the extension or application of international rules for the transport of dangerous goods also for transport in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the law provides that higher fines are imposed for serious infringements of the rules on the transport of dangerous goods than for minor infringements. In the Group of Members, we will indeed confirm the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u9	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and fellow Members! Members of the DeSUS will support the amended proposal of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. Amendments need to be brought into our legal order, as we are required to do so by the adopted Directive of the European Union. Novelisation is without prejudice to the concept of the basic law itself and thus does not alter the current arrangements for the transport of dangerous goods in road, rail, air and maritime transport. It also does not alter the existing security measures at different stages of the transport of dangerous goods. Vessels carrying such goods must, in our opinion, be uniform to the maximum possible extent and we therefore support the extension or application of international regulations to transport in our country. However, the second set of amendments concerns the criminal provisions of the basic law, namely, the applicant proposes to determine the amount of the fine in accordance with the principle of proportionality. So for minor offenses, it's lower, and for worse offenses, it's higher. We view such an approach by DeSUS Members as positive and necessary, as such threatening penalties achieve their purpose. It is therefore a short novelty which is without prejudice to the basic principles of the established system of arrangements for the transport of dangerous goods, established on the basis of the Directive of the European Union, and we do not oppose the proposed amendments in the DeSUS Group. We will thus contribute to the adoption of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u11	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary! The two major amendments introduced by the Amendments to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods are, in particular, two: to supplement the law on the transposition of Directive 2008/68 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods adopted on 24 September 2008 into the Slovenian legal order and to amend the criminal provisions of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods relating to offences committed. It should be noted that the Directives of the European Union are binding on Member States only on the objective to be achieved by the Directive. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods also contains a specific provision that Member States may apply stricter provisions in relation to the inland transport of dangerous goods for transport purposes. Thus, the directive sets only some minimum that it seeks to ensure in the field of transport of dangerous goods throughout the EU. However, a Member State may always lay down stricter conditions, i.e. higher standards as defined in the Directive. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are pleased that a higher standard of security has also been decided by the applicants of the novel in question, but we would like to point out that we do not support the way in which this is proposed. It would be better if these standards were already laid down in the amendment to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. So, determined at the legal level and only at the level of the order. Following the proposed decree of Article 6 of the amendment, it merely provides that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs may, for reasons of security of carriage by order, lay down temporary stricter requirements relating to the inland transport of dangerous goods and, in the following paragraph, that the Minister responsible for Home Affairs may, with the agreement of the EU Commission, lay down provisional measures if, in the event of an accident or accident in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, there is an urgent need for action. The safety concern, particularly in the transport of dangerous goods, certainly dictates its regulation at legal level. For reasons of security, it is equally important that fines for infringement of the law on the transport of non-contributory goods are pursued by the intended preventive purpose. The proposed amendment, however, reduces the fines. Moreover, they are no longer defined in terms of the severity of the offence committed, but in a certain amount, according to the Slovenian National Party, which is absolutely too low, especially when compared with fines for offences. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we ask who has affected the Government for the reduction of fines. Because of all the changes in the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods in the Slovenian National Party Group, we will not support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we note that the amendments and additions to the Dangerous Goods Act further regulate the transport of dangerous goods in road, rail, air and maritime transport and lay down the minimum conditions to be met by all those involved in the transport of dangerous goods in the territory of the European Union in order to ensure safety. The proposal for amendments concerns in particular the adaptation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods, by which all the Directives on the transport of dangerous goods have been merged into one legislative document. International rules on road and rail transport are therefore extended to inland transport. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support efforts aimed at security and security measures. As we understand it, this is primarily about preventing the possibility of the use of dangerous goods for terrorist purposes. We therefore believe that it is right to prescribe mandatory compliance with security measures at all stages of the transport of dangerous goods, to train all persons involved in the transport of dangerous goods and to clearly establish liability for the damage caused. However, we also support the adaptation of criminal provisions in the sense that higher fines are imposed for serious breaches of the rules on the transport of dangerous goods than for minor infringements. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the changes and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! As mentioned more than once today, the proposal aims to transpose the directive into the Slovenian legal order in the internal transport of dangerous goods. The law extends the scope of international road and rail rules to internal transport and creates a single set of rules for all transport activities within the single market. The law requires mandatory consideration of safety measures at all stages of the transport of dangerous goods, training of all persons involved in the transport of dangerous goods, liability for damage caused and the requirements adapted to the type and the danger of individual dangerous goods are laid down. However, the basic solution concerns the extension of the validity or application of international provisions for the transport of dangerous goods also for transport in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. When adapting criminal provisions, the law provides that more fines are imposed for serious infringements than for minor infringements. The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods responds to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 in the internal transport of dangerous goods to be carried into our legal order. The scope of international road and rail rules is extended to internal transport and a single set of rules for all transport activities within the single market is created. This is therefore an important area of compliance with the Directives or the solution to be adopted in the European Parliament. By the way, let me say that I am surprised by the resolution of European consciousness and totalitarianism, which is even more important, but it seems that there is no such awareness in this room. The proposed law states in its explanatory memorandum that the main solution to the law on the extension or application of international rules is also for the transport of dangerous goods for transport in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we attach great importance to ensuring the safety of the transport of dangerous goods. The law is necessary to ensure general safety where there is a possibility of misuse of dangerous goods for terrorist purposes in the transport of dangerous goods. In addition to security measures, more important are the limbs of the protection measures. International regulations provide for security measures for goods for which there is a high potential for abuse for terrorist purposes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support all proposals that provide greater security in the transport of dangerous goods and general security. With regard to ensuring safety in the transport of dangerous goods, it is important to Article 5 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the internal transport of dangerous goods, which also provides that Member States may apply stricter provisions relating to the inland transport of goods for safety reasons. The implementation of this provision under that Directive, which only allows for the application of stricter provisions, should take into account the fact that these should be established in accordance with our legal order, by defining the cases that might arise and by establishing appropriate measures for such a situation. However, in more detail, it shall be carried out by means of a sub-law and shall not be left to the Minister's judgement alone. Such an arrangement would violate the principle of legal certainty and the principle of legality. In the SDS Group, I expect the competent ministry to take into account the certainty and principle of legal certainty in the implementation of ensuring greater security in the transport of dangerous goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE TRAINING LAW, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE FINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u19	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will briefly present a proposal for a novel on the Foreigners Act. The main objective of the proposed novel is to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union, namely the implementation of two regulations. In the light of the amended Regulation governing the uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals, the proposal provides: the legal basis for the production of a new residence permit form for third-country nationals, which will contain the form of the face and two foreign fingerprints, recorded as biometric data. A passport for a foreigner with additional fingerprints must be issued by the Republic of Slovenia by 28.6.2009. The law also lays down the period of storage of biometric data on records and purposes for which biometric data recorded on the document may be used. The proposer considers that the solutions presented are appropriate and therefore proposes to adopt a proposal for a law. It also proposes that the National Assembly should adopt a decision to draw up, as a result of the scope of the amendments, an official consolidated text of the law approved by the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We're fast today. Therefore, the proposed law was discussed by the Committee at its meeting on 6.5.2009. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided on 10.4. that this law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior took part in the meeting of the Committee, the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations and the Legal and Legislative Service. We had all the necessary documents, namely the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, which supported the changes. The Minister's opening statement was as we had just heard it. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in cooperation with the proposer, has also prepared amendments to Articles 1, 8, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26. The draft law was also addressed by the State Council Commission, which supported the law. The Committee further adopted all amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. After the discussion, the Committee also voted on the articles of the law together and drafted the law in the form of an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act implementing European Union law. In fact, the European Union has amended the uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals in the field of immigration. It is therefore Slovenia's duty as members of the European Union to implement these changes in its legal order. The novelty essentially lays down the legal basis for the production of a new licence form for third-country nationals. The novelty introduced by the novel is the inclusion of two fingerprints as biometric data on a foreign person. This residence permit for third-country nationals will then be issued in the form of a separate document or card, which will also serve to identify a foreign person. The novel also lays down the legal basis for the upgrading of the foreign passport form, which will include, in addition to the facial image, two foreign fingerprints, written as biometric data. The obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to issue biometric passports for foreigners with fingerprints is up to 28. 6. 2009 Therefore, amendments to the Foreigners Act are also necessary and necessary and are supported by the Desus Group. As a third novelty included in this novelty, the removal of an administrative obstacle or the simplification of the performance of acts in the temporary residence permit process is due to employment or work. Indeed, it is now possible for the employer or the legitimate representative to submit applications for such authorisations, not the remaining acts in the procedure. However, the novelty also allows him to perform other procedural acts, with the exception of the service of this authorisation, which, in our view, will certainly make it easier for the parties or their representatives to obtain a permit. In short, the DeSUS Group supports these changes. The European Union is also asking us to accept the latter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much and very much for saying hello to everyone. The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Foreigners Act is, of course, necessary. It is a fact that we are adapting to the European order and it is right to collect biometric data. After all, this is a trend that has been in Europe for a long time and should have been in Slovenia for a long time. Think about it. After all, Slovenia had destroyed complete fingerprint records a while ago, which was one of the great stupidities, but then, at the beginning of the independence, some had the feeling that all the data had to be destroyed, burned and started completely new, which still feels today. This is especially true in the case of destroyed population records, where the resident came from, where he is from, and so on. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and in my personal opinion, it was a deliberate destruction of these vital data for research into many things, but that is the case. In the main, these major changes made by this law are absolutely acceptable. Maybe there's something else that's too small. The law provides that biometric data on facial images and fingerprints shall be stored in residence permit records only until a legislative decision on the application has been issued and then deleted from the records. Later, of course, it says that this will be stored, including fingerprint data, so that it will be stored as biometric data in the card that the alien will have. However, if it is stored only in the card, but by no means in the database, how can they compare the data, whether it is actually this alien carrying a identity card and if it is identical or true, as the one listed in the lists, in the records which led to the issue of a legal decision. I think it's a "kiks" that will have to be corrected further, as I know it, procedure. This thing can lead to a lot of things, lead to what's already going on. In Slovenia, for example, no Chinese die, no Chinese get permission, but there are more and more. Go to Séžana, in Sežana they bought the whole block through the European Union, because they came in, they got permission to stay in Italy and the rest and slowly eat in Slovenia. I don't think that's right, and that's not good. Slovenia must take care of its national interests and one of the most important national interests is that we do not allow it to grow here just after long and after. The other such matters are, of course, also in Sežana, the Shiptars, who bought the second block and staged the expulsion of the Slovenian population from the coastal region. They already know why. For the strategic position of Slovenian coastal is very, very important and these people are aware of this much more than our gentlemen's policy. Therefore, it would make sense for us to think in this direction as well. It also proposes a legislative proposal to enable the employer or legal representative of the parties applying for work to do all the work for that applicant. I don't know if that's a good thing. In this way, one field of manipulation is permitted against them, which may be misused in one way or another. Abuse will happen, and the fact is that criminals are much smarter than cops. The police are always following criminal acts and trying to stop them instead of trying to get ahead of themselves. If I tried to get ahead of them, I would also talk to someone who understands a little bit more about these matters and understands a little bit better, as it seems that the drafter of this law understands. Surely there is something else that, in our view, is not right. In the face of penalties, the fine will be equal for both foreigners and Slovenian citizens. I don't think that's right. If we look at the other countries, if we look at Italy, we will see that foreigners are being processed and treated substantially differently. Look at what is happening to Romanians, who are also EU citizens, and yet there are special rules for them. Otherwise, we'll consider supporting the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. This proposal for amendments and additions also essentially seeks to comply with the EU acquis. Since there has been an amendment to the Council Regulation on a uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals, the proposal for a law then lays down the legal basis for the production of a new form of residence permit for foreigners, which will contain a picture of the face and two foreign fingerprints written as biometric data. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also support a change that is also subject to harmonisation with EU law and provides a legal basis for upgrading the foreign passport form. In this area, too, fingerprints written as biometric data are introduced. Members of the Slovenian People's Party hope that the protection of personal data will be well taken care of and that these biometric data will in fact be used only for specific purposes, such as the verification of the authenticity of the residence permit and the identity of the holder of the residence permit, the alien, the crossing of national borders and the determination of the legality of the foreigner's residence in the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, it is also a welcome change that the need for a foreigner's identity card will not be required again as the residence permit will be issued as a separate document. We also support the amendment that will address shortcomings in procedures when employers file applications for the work of so-called seasonal workers. We will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, all together a pleasant good day and a beautiful and successful day! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Act, second reading, will certainly be supported in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, since the law means more control, more order, more scrutiny and more security. The novelty of the law also means first aligning the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union, which we consider appropriate and good. The area of migration has been one of the most important areas in the world in recent years, and in particular in the European Union. Thus, the European Union has adopted a Regulation on a uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals setting out a uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals. This Regulation implements biometric protective elements on the form of the residence permit, the form of the face and the two fingerprints of the holder of the authorisation, which are recorded and recorded as biometric data. The residence permit for third-country nationals will be reissued in the form of a separate document and no longer in the form of a sticker and a decision as it has been regulated so far. The residence permit in the form of a separate card, that is, a card, as required by the regulation, will also contain data on the image of the face and two fingerprints of the holder, which will also be properly stored as biometric data. The proposal for a new law also removes the disadvantage of the current regulation of the position of the employer or of the legitimate representative of the parties, including posted workers here, in the process of granting a temporary residence permit for employment or work, the provision of seasonal work and the provision of services with posted workers. Under the current regulation, the employer and the legal representative of the parties under the law are allowed to submit an application for a residence permit, but not to perform other acts in the process, which has proved to be inadequate or insufficiently regulated in practice and we are correcting and improving the situation here by means of this amendment of the law. The previous talks also mentioned something about how Slovenian police work. I am pleased that the statistical review shows that the security of our country and the violations are diminishing and the work is improving. Data for January 28th of February 2009 say that Slovenian police officers recorded 137 illegal border crossings, 38.3% less than in 2008. At the border of 1056 citizens from the so-called third countries and 241 foreigners were removed from Slovenia, which means that the functioning of the police in this area is appropriate, well, with the adoption of the amendment of the law on foreigners, which we will support in the Group of Liberal Democracy, although a fairly well-regulated situation will certainly improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dara Lavtišar Bebler on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the Social Democrats' Group, we support the proposal for a law because it is a matter of alignment with the acquis of the European Union, while at the same time amending this law allows some improvements to the regulation in force. In order to implement the Council Regulation on standards and for safety features and biometric data in passports and travel documents issued by Member States to foreigners, third-country nationals with a validity of at least one year, the legal basis for the upgrading of the foreign passport form, which, in the new form in addition to the facial image, will also contain two foreign fingerprints, written as biometric data. The Republic of Slovenia must start issuing biometric passports for a foreigner with fingerprints until 28 June of this year. In order to implement the Council Regulation on a uniform form of residence permit for third-country nationals, a legal basis is laid down for the production of a new form of residence permit for third-country nationals, which will contain a form of face and two foreign fingerprints, recorded as biometric data. In view of the new form of residence permit for third-country nationals, which will be issued in the form of a separate document and no longer in the form of a sticker or a decision, the proposal also slightly amends the criminal provisions. As a result of the requirements for the free movement of persons, the fine for offences for which the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, their family members and the family members of Slovenian citizens are subject to sanctions is also amended. The draft law redefines the position of the employer and the legal representative of the Contracting Parties in the procedure for granting temporary residence for employment or work where the application for authorisation is submitted by the employer or the legal representative of the Contracting Parties, thereby correcting the shortcomings of the regulation so far. A foreigner coming to the Republic of Slovenia for employment or work, or for the purpose of performing seasonal work or as a posted worker, must obtain a residence permit before entering the country. The employer will have the power to carry out all acts under the residence permit procedure and not only to lodge an application under the law, i.e. without the party's authority. This will facilitate the process of obtaining a residence permit, which is also in the interest of Slovenian employers. The proposed amendment introduces a Council Regulation into domestic law, while at the same time improving the law in those parts where it provides for more effective procedures for obtaining temporary residence permits for the employment or work of third-country nationals. That is why we will also support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we paid special attention to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act. We note, for the first time, that the proposal for a law follows the directive of the European Union, further simplifies the procedures in this regard and builds on the solution so far. In particular, it is important to regulate and simplify the procedures of employers in order to facilitate their work or employment. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word is given by Vito Rožej on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In order to avoid a repetition, it should be noted that this law on the coordination of the Slovenian acquis with the European Union is being addressed by the shortcomings regarding the regulation of the position of the employer, the legal representative of the parties concerning the granting of temporary stay permits for employment, seasonal work and similar things as has already been said. At the same time, of course, the status of foreigners with the status of citizens as regards personal documents is being aligned in some way. And as a result of these benefits, we will really support the amendment to the law in the Zares Group. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity, and I may also express the hope that we will soon receive on our bench another amendment of legislation dealing with foreigners, perhaps the Asylum Act or international protection. Another would probably be missing in our legal order, which in some way would have settled the incomprehensible status of foreigners with us now; allowing either their integration or otherwise to resolve the situation that is currently in some legal void. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Passport Act, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u37	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the amendments and the addition of this law is to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union. The law will implement the Council regulation on standards for safety features and biometric data on travel documents and travel documents issued by Member States, in a part which provides that a biometric of two fingerprints should also be introduced into the travel documents. The Republic of Slovenia must issue biometric travel documents with fingerprints up to 28. 6. 2009 The bill therefore sets an age limit for fingerprinting, which is 12 years or more, exceptions to the issuance of travel documents without fingerprints, which are linked to health tasks and the storage and use of fingerprints. The law, however, deletes provisions on the obligation of a legal representative to travel children up to the age of 15 without their escort, which in practice no longer have any useful value. The old passports can be used until the expiry date and will not need to be changed for the introduction of biometric fingerprints. We believe that the solutions are appropriate, and the proposaler also proposes that the National Assembly adopt a decision to draw up an official consolidated text of the law, which the Assembly approves, in view of the scope of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. At its 4th meeting, on 6 May, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice addressed this bill, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Travel Charter Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly. At its 21st meeting on 10 April, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law would be dealt with in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee have been provided with a proposal for a law, with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, with the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations. The introductory explanation for the bill was given by the Minister, who has said what we have actually heard now. She added the idea that the Government was proposing to the National Assembly that the Legislative and Legal Service should also draw up an official consolidated text. The legislative and legal service which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution made comments to the proposed text on Articles 1, 24 and 25 of the draft law. The Commission of the Council of State supported the proposal. In the context of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with Articles 126, 128, 130, 131 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the law and the amendments tabled. We have been able to make amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and amendments to the SDS Group. The Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11 became irrelevant by the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee drew up the final text of the bill and voted on all articles together after the discussion and the vote on the amendments in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. You have received the bill as an annex to the report before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, the word Victory Jelinčič nobles on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. The law brings some positive improvements, and it certainly makes sense for us to go to biometric travel documents with a face and two fingerprints. Of course, there are some confusions in the law itself, especially as the two fingerprints are spoken of. In fact, it would make sense to record which two fingerprints are taken from people who can't normally take a fingerprint and another finger. It makes sense to write this down and perhaps it would be good to write to take the thumb and another finger as a rule. It's purely simple police technology, because in unlocking locks in black, if I say so, or unlocking and opening cash registers is a mandatory use of the thumb. Those who do not have a thumb cannot do so and it would make sense to write that the thumbprint is usually taken and that the other finger is recorded. I also have a problem with the issue of a passport for a diplomat in point 13 when it mentions the information contained in the passport, point 13 – the signature of a citizen who can and can sign. I understand that some people can't sign, but a diplomat is almost expected to be able to sign. It is true that countries and are examples where diplomats barely know how to write, speak, or anything like that, but because of political preferences they represent their country, but it would still be nice, at least because of some cosmetics, to throw it out and say, "Fents, Slovenians can still write - at least write." The paperless process of accepting applications is a good and smart matter, as well as the abolition of the validation of forms, but I nevertheless do not think that travelling to Croatia is equal to travelling to European countries and that it would be possible to consider any specific matters. It is necessary to know that the Wall Street Journal wrote a disgusting article about Croatia, which is spreading Croatia in all its criminal properties, and that it would make sense for travel to Croatia or for travel of Croatian citizens to Slovenia to make matters a little more difficult. Once again, the Slovenian National Party will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. This amendment of the law was also primarily prepared to comply with the acquis of the European Union. Let us recall that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Citizens, which entered into force in 2005, allowed the issuance of biometric travel documents of the first generation containing the chip containing the image of the holder in biometric form. The first biometric travel documents began to be issued in August 2006 in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, the local authority to issue and declare a misstep for travel documents was also abolished. We have before us a recast of the Travel Documents Act, in particular with a view to establishing a legal basis for the implementation of the Council Regulation on standards for safety features and biometric data in passports and travel documents issued by Member States. We have been instructed to start issuing biometric travel documents with fingerprints until 28 June 2009. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support the news that two fingerprints are taken after a new citizen when applying for a passport, except in cases where, for health reasons, it is not possible to collect two fingerprints temporarily or permanently. It is also important that fingerprints can only be used to verify the authenticity of the travel document and the identity of the holder of the travel document when crossing the national border. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the removal of administrative barriers in terms of the abolition of the rightful representative's permission and the use of modern technologies, which represent a simplification of procedures. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much, President. Once again, a nice hello to everyone. Another proposal of an important and, above all, practical and useful law that brings better, good solutions than we have had so far, and that is why in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the proposal of the new Law on Travel Documents. If we take a closer look at the contents of the novel, we will soon find that it is pursuing two important goals. One is to adapt to European Union directives and the other is to address some of the shortcomings that have been proven in practice. The main purpose and reason of the novelty is to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the Council Regulation on standards for safety features and biometric data in travel documents and travel documents of 13. 12. 2004 For this Regulation provides that within 36 months of the adoption of the technical specifications for fingerprints in travel documents a biometric of two fingerprints should also be introduced. What does that mean in practice? Since the decision was adopted 28. 6. 2006, this means that in Slovenia we can start issuing biometric passports up to 28. 6. 2009 and since then, of course. Therefore, in the LDS, we also support the Ministry's decision that, when we implement the provisions of the European regulation in this law, those provisions that have proved to be in practice weak or as bad solutions will also be corrected. What does this mean for all our citizens, citizens and citizens? More security in the fight against terrorism, fewer opportunities for counterfeiting, an increased level of protection, including individual identity. We will support the new law on passports in the LDS because we estimate that the Ministry has prepared a good solution concerning specific arrangements when it is not possible to take fingerprints temporarily or permanently, and in particular that the law is practical and lifelike. Of course, we insist that by regulating the age limit by which children under the age of 12 are exempt from the obligation to make fingerprints. In particular, it seems to us that there is an important solution regarding the length of time taken from the fingerprints. Thus, in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we support a solution that stipulates that the image of the fingerprints or fingerprints taken in the record will only lead to the service of the passport and that this data will be deleted from the record and that fingerprints can only be used to verify the authenticity of the travel document and the identity of the holder of the travel document. When crossing the state border, we simply have no temptation to control everything and at any time, especially after storing data that could be misused later. We also support the novel because the novelty foresees the abolition of the legal representative's authorisation, as this solution will not affect the level of protection of the child's benefits in crossing the border, but it certainly means removing the administrative obstacle to the annual acquisition of a new licence, which is also subject to an administrative fee, which, of course, means an unnecessary cost for citizens, in our opinion. In this regard, we also attach to the Ministry's finding that this removal of the administrative barrier constitutes a positive advantage both for the party and for the administrative authority exercising such authorisation. Of course, we will also support the novelty in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia because it allows for other improvements in the issue of travel documents - and, of course, in these times in which we are, of course, it is irrelevant that it contains a solution that citizens of old passports will not have to change these biometric fingerprints because of the introduction of biometric fingerprints, which means that they will not waste time, but in particular that they will not have any additional costs. Of all the practical consequences mentioned and proposed, on the one hand, and on the other hand more security The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia expresses its full support for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dara Lavtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is also a matter of alignment with the legal order of the European Union, that is, with the relevant Council Regulation and with the technical specifications adopted by the Commission Decision of 28. 6. In 2006, Slovenia must therefore start issuing biometric travel documents with fingerprints by 28 June of this year. The Council Regulation does not prescribe the age limit for fingerprint coverage, but the European Parliament is 14. 1. In its first reading, 2009 adopted a legislative resolution of the European Parliament on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Council Regulation. The amendment to this Regulation is aimed at exempting children under the age of 12 from the requirement for fingerprinting. This age limit is temporary because the European Commission will carry out an audit after four years and, if necessary, submit a reduction of this age limit. The proposal for a new law points out that the Regulation does not provide for a time limit for the storage and restriction of the use of fingerprints taken for other purposes, such as identification of individuals in other cases, such as criminal proceedings, so this area is entirely left to the decision of each Member State and the amendment of the law provides that the image of fingerprints taken in the register will only lead to the service of the passport and will then be deleted from the record. Fingerprints will be collected by means of electronic fingerprinting devices and will be stored in the travel document record and only for the purpose of drawing up the travel document until it is served. We explicitly support the latter in the Group of Social Democrats. The powers to issue travel documents, to declare error and to keep records shall also be regulated. The issuance of a new passport with one-year validity in the event of multiple errors and prohibitions on the issuance or withdrawal of a travel document shall be clearly defined. We also explicitly support these clearer definitions in the Group of Social Democrats. It shall also be supplemented by that part relating to the obligation to return a passport in the event of a change in residence or residence or extradition as long as the entered data representing its identification are changed to the passport. The time limit for the submission of a passport in the event of the cessation of nationality and the deadline for the notification of a passport failure abroad is also short. We support these additions in the Group of Social Democrats. There is also a rise in fines, which we agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u49	Good-bye! Since these are less difficult amendments and additions and harmonisation of the bill with EU law, for some simplifications or more precise provisions, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we will not oppose or support the amendment of the travel documents law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word is given by Vito Rožej on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u51	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been heard, the reason for the recast of this law is the establishment of a legal basis for the implementation of the European Regulation on Safety Standards and Biometric Data on Travel Documents and Other Travel Documents issued by EU Members. The document also provides that 36 months should be allowed until 28 June of this year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u52	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u53	the adoption of technical specifications for fingerprints in travel documents also introduce biometrics of two fingerprints, which the Republic of Slovenia will of course do. [[...]] In doing so, we express particular concern in our parliamentary group for the storage and handling of data, as has already been mentioned here, and we believe that the law deals satisfactorily with this subject. In addition, the law removes certain administrative obstacles and removes any other administrative obstacle to the issue of cancellations and document errors. Since today there has also been a provision which, if possible, imposes signatures on holders of diplomatic passports, but of course we add, this provision is absolutely necessary in the law. Ignorance, I conclude, has led to some opposition to this provision, because even children of diplomats who cannot yet write may be holders of diplomatic passports. I think the excitement was overwhelming, but understandable, given the ignorance. Due to the foregoing, due to the alignment with the acquis of the European Union and the removal of administrative obstacles, we will really support the amendments to the law in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! Amendments to European legislation on safety standards and biometric data in travel documents and travel documents also affect our legislation. It is our duty to approach the amendment of the law that governs this area. And that's the travel documents law. At the previous point, a novelty of the law on foreigners, it was said that a biometric of two fingerprints was also introduced in the travel documents. These biometric passports will begin to be issued by 28. 6. 2009 That is why this novel needs to be adopted and Members of the DeSUS will certainly contribute to the adoption of the latter. As far as fingerprinting is concerned, the novel in our opinion adequately determines the procedure and method, setting the age limit of 12 years or more. It takes into account exceptions for health reasons, it is also appropriate to provide for the storage and use of such fingerprints, so that the right of persons to the protection of personal data is enabled. The proposal includes some minor changes that are necessary because of those changes or because of the implementation of the European Regulation. We consider these news Members of the DeSUS to be appropriate, in line with the requirements of European law, and we will therefore support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the decision on the draft law will be made today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Before I move on to the 18th item of the agenda, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, I interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly for an hour. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly for one hour because the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as the home working body of the meeting, has not concluded. Therefore, in agreement with the Chairman of the Committee, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly for one hour. The meeting will continue at 11.45 p.m. At the same time, I inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice will continue immediately at the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The purpose of the procedural proposal is likely to be before the adjournment of the meeting. You have now suspended the meeting and given me a procedural proposal, which is completely illogical. When the meeting is suspended, let me discuss the procedural proposals. And I think it is unacceptable for the President not to give a word to the person who has a procedural proposal when he asks for it. I asked for this before the end of the point, because I intended to propose that the National Assembly vote to replace the order of treatment of the points. In order to make this point of consideration of the Police Act, because it is also a difficult matter from a legislative point of view, even if we are reading the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the explanation of the applicant that there is only a need for a few more discussions on the content of this Act, in particular on certain provisions which have an impact on human rights, on the standards obtained. Mrs Lovtišar Bebler would say that the field of freedom would be revived and the field of repression would be expanded. For this reason, I propose that this item be considered as the last item of the agenda for this meeting, in order to postpone the consideration of this item on Tuesday and to hold a debate in peace on the solutions brought by the Police Act. This may be particularly necessary because the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service are also very weighty, and a very well-founded one is that which should be clarified in the coalition. In the previous term, you have had an extremely large number of comments by members of the current coalition parties, former opposition parties, on the initiation of the paralysis. With this amendment to the law that we are now considering, on this subject, the paralyser, there is not really a word. It would also make sense to discuss this. President, I don't think it's a problem because the meeting's been suspended, I can talk like in [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The park. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u58	No, no, it's true that I announced the suspension of the session with this prediction, but I haven't said I'm interrupting it yet. I have announced the suspension of the sitting, I have given you a procedural proposal and I am obliged to put your procedural proposal to the vote now. I'm sorry. The meeting was supposed to run. I didn't give you my word at the time that I was speaking, because it's a little unusual, so you still have the right to a procedural proposal. You'll get it. I am obliged to put this motion of procedure to a vote because, in accordance with Article 65, during a meeting of the National Assembly, the order of treatment of individual items of the agenda may be amended twice as many as one third of the representatives present do not object. I am obliged to put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u59	It's just, President, I haven't finished yet. You just interrupted me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u60	You're definitely because time hasn't run out of time, actually, and I'm asking you to finish. At the same time, of course, I also ask Members to meet in the Chamber for a vote. Please conclude because you have exceeded the time set for discussion. If you're saying the session has already been suspended by my own act, then we shouldn't be talking at all. There's no doubt about that. There's no problem measuring, it's expired, and you've already taken your time. Please finish your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u61	Mr President, I don't know because the time has not been announced, the measurement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u62	I know because I've been monitoring it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u63	You don't even know what I'm thinking until the end of the sentence, probably. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u64	Suggest, because I have not taken your word, suggest, but complete your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u65	You're probably not "God's son" to know what I'm about to say. [[..]] [[Talking to each other.]] , [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u66	That's why now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u67	Since you already said you shouldn't give me your word, I'm going to end it in some way. But it is unusual for the chairman to give the floor first and then find out that he should not give it and thus intervene in this debate. I therefore propose that we vote on this point being moved and considered as the last item in the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, and that the law should be processed as usual for parliamentary practice. I do not think there is any need for any member of the National Coalition Assembly to tour the chairman of the committee to do anything in any way. The leader of the coalition, whoever, has not even turned to us, but you are doing what is somehow passed and otherwise, as was the custom already in this mandate, and in the past at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members shall have the right to be explained. Does one of the Group of Members wish to discuss this proposal, take a position and explain the vote? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 24 to 26. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that this proposal has not been adopted. Did you want procedural? Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! In view of the fact that this proposal has not been adopted, on behalf of the Group of Members, I propose that you decide, before the meeting is resumed, 45 minutes of recess, that the Group of Members agree at all on how it will work further on this agenda item. This is what we need to agree to examine the situation created by this non-voting. If you don't, then we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u70	Of course, you have the right to such an interruption before making a decision. We won't decide now, so I can't give it to you. Therefore, I am now adjourning the meeting of the assembly for one hour and I ask that the members of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice report immediately to the Grand Chamber of Tomšič to continue the meeting. This adjourned the meeting and will continue at 12 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u71	I would like to begin this meeting with a question to the President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. In view of the fact that they have not completed the consideration of the point of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act by 12 noon, I would like to ask how much time he estimates he will spend on this. This will allow us to decide on the continuation of today's session. But I don't see him in the hall, so we're gonna have to wait a few minutes, I hope he gets to the gym as little as possible. I continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and first ask the President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Dr Vinko Gorenak, how long it will take to complete their consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Please, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! The circumstances in which we work are not normal. That's the first thing. We're not even allowed and allowed to normally hold this board meeting. Even what you did and said, so I have to make it clear that we agreed to continue the session - it's not true and it's not true. We didn't make a deal. In the future, all I'm going to have to do is be with you in the hallway, or in writing. However, I can answer your question as follows: the committee will finish its work when it discusses all the amendments. Today, three hours or more, I don't know exactly how long we've been sitting today, we've been discussing the amendment of the coalition MP, and not the opposition one that he then withdrew and was taken by the opposition member, Mr Grims. When we're done, I can't assure you. I'm going to run the meeting through the Rules of Procedure the way I need to. But I cannot predict an hour because I am not interrupting Members, as you are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. You've repeated yourself at the board meeting several times, saying that I lied and so on. I got a notice from the service that you suggested it, and I said it. I don't allow any doubt about that at all. And you were expected to do this within the hour, so you can estimate that you didn't. You just didn't tell me how long you're gonna be done. I note that the conditions for the consideration of this law are not met at this time and we will consider this law in the context of this regular meeting, this regular meeting when we receive the report of the Committee. When's that, of course, it's hard to say. On Tuesday at the latest, the last day of the meeting. We cannot risk and completely change the course of the agenda and make it out of meeting management and there is some opaque confusion, so we continue. This point will be considered after the conditions for it have been met. Otherwise, we're moving on to 19. It's a day's work. Before we move on to this point, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I don't think the National Assembly can deal with agenda items in such an indeterminate way. I have already suggested from the outset that the National Assembly decide when this item of the agenda will be considered. I suggested that this would be the last item of this meeting of the National Assembly. The coalition of this proposal did not support the vote. And if we want to function normally, if you want the National Assembly to function normally and predictablely in accordance with the forecast you made with the reference to the agenda, then I would like to reiterate that we are going to decide on a procedural proposal to consider the Police Act as the last item of the agenda, and then, I hope that the working body will find time to complete this point in these normal circumstances. So when we don't know anything, not when it will, not what won't, not how it will be, but I don't think the National Assembly can continue. And I'm actually kind of hurt when all the procedural proposals we want to help the work of the National Assembly fall so vehemently. And what's even worse is the content suggestions. Therefore, I repeat, in accordance with Article 65, I propose the replacement of the order and the treatment of the point of police law as the last point of this meeting of the National Assembly. Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u75	Dear colleague Tanko, we voted on this just before an hour ago. The results of the vote are well known, so I will not put this proposal to the vote again because we would simply repeat the vote. I repeat, the 18th item of the agenda will be considered when the conditions for hearing are met. You will all be informed in time and I will not put this to the vote. Procedurally, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u76	I am sorry that Mr Tanko beat me to death, but it is obvious from some congresses that this chaotic "anarcho banana spirit" of the other republic is also spreading through the National Assembly. What's this all about? Either way, he's trying to stall and destabilize the case. All Members of Parliament are professionals. On behalf of the LDS Club, I propose that the meeting be suspended so that the Internal Policy Committee can conclude its work. If we're gonna sit here until tomorrow morning, we're just gonna sit here, that's our duty, and that's our job. I strongly protest this delay. The opportunity to convene the committee was enough, and yesterday afternoon and against the evening. Where there is will, there is a way. If we act so decisively, those who do so will find 101 more reasons to delay it. If in the country we have bombs being dropped in front of the police, someone being stabbed on the street and killed in a restaurant, then, of course, we need effective force police with more resources and personnel. It is obvious that Slovenia is so far away that the part of the policy corresponds to decommissioning and destabilising the country for a new invasion of power. But we strongly oppose it, and it's time to hit the table and make order. The chairman of the committee and the committee should do their part, otherwise someone else who is capable and capable of doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I will not put your proposal to the vote. The fact is, the chairman of the committee did not know, did not want and could not predict when this point would be completed on the committee. Since this is not clear, a comprehensive agenda for today’s treatment would then fall, i.e. the agenda. And as president, I can't afford that. The point will be considered when the conditions for it are met. Procedurally, please, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you. Above all, I would ask, Mr President, that in the future, in the formulation of the agenda, but you will also look at whether or not one of the laws meets the conditions for consideration in the National Assembly and then we will not, as is the second time on the Committee on Home Affairs, that, if I am concrete, as an increase in the protection of human rights, we deal with concepts such as those in this law, as is reasonable probability, all those who have any idea of mathematics, you know that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u79	Mr Grimes, this has nothing to do with the procedural proposal. What's your procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u80	Mr President, my procedural proposal is based on the rules of procedure itself, to take a substantive look at the adoption of the agenda or at the setting up of the agenda for the College or at one law meeting the conditions or failing to comply with them. This law is full of vague and incomprehensible concepts, even confused with mathematics such as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u81	Mr Grimes, you made a procedural proposal. There is no substantive debate on a law that we do not have a report on at all. Finish your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u82	Mr President, if such things are heard, then what happens now that came from the Supreme Court for that Penal Code that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr Grimes. That's a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u84	that he is inadequate, unprofessional and incomprehensible. [[...]] And such interpretations as the basis for a rapid procedure cannot be legally given, but a rapid procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u85	Mr. Grimes, I'll take it from you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]] Dear colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u86	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u87	Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Fellow Members, as well as the President of the National Assembly, in this high house, as the President of the Government has said, it is only necessary to maintain some level of communication between those who are sitting and between those who are also debated in the National Assembly. I think as chairman you abused the explanation of the president of the working body when he said he couldn't predict when he could continue the meeting, because the matter is ongoing, the debate is large, the amendments are coming and going, others are summarizing them. And not because of the opposition MPs, but because of the coalitions. For this reason, it is unworthy that anyone in his response offends the president of the working body because he has not announced it, as you have said, that in one hour the matter will be over. It is also unworthy that any leader of a parliamentary group should characterise any proposal by any parliamentary group in the National Assembly with a "banana" proposal. We are elected in this National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u89	Your Honor, Comrade Tanko. Procedural proposal, no controversy with others [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u90	It's not a controversy, I'm just talking about what the culture of debate should be like in the National Assembly. And you had a lot to say about culture in the past mandate and also in this mandate, so I suggest that when the presidents find out that in these debates or explanations there is an insult to Members, Members' groups or political parties of political groups, you alert the Member and that you are also sanctioning him accordingly. Mr Grimes, who was only discussing why the problems in dealing with this law were, you took the floor. Mr Saiovic, who has gravely insulted our Group of Members, our amendments, you have done absolutely nothing. He'll probably deserve some more credit because such a grave fall has actually tarnished not only our sentinel group but, above all, this house that you're directing. It is also unacceptable and undeniable that the reasoned proposals tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as we have applied for a general debate on the package of measures, do not declare that this matter is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but simply to say, "We will not allocate time." [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Such conduct by any President, in particular the President of the National Assembly, who should represent the interests of all Members and ensure that all have equal opportunities, is non-business and so on [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u91	I think it represents the interests of the National Assembly and the Members and that the work goes smoothly and on the agenda. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, the shortening of the procedure. Did you want procedural? Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u92	Mr President, I propose that we take the decision to make it clear on the Committee on Internal Policy that this time, an attempt to amend the law on police, an attempt to violate human rights in Slovenia through the abuse of police powers, and therefore we reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u93	Dear Mr Jerovšek! It is clear that I will not put such a proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u94	And you used to be for human rights!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u95	The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ms Sonja Bukovec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u96	Dear Mr. President! Dear Members! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in March 2000 for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The current Act on seed of agricultural plants is being amended in order to comply with the provisions of the new rules of the European Union governing the varieties of agricultural plants and the marketing of seed. Two new Directives have been adopted in the European Union in the past year, namely Council Directive 2008/90 - on the marketing of propagating material for fruit plants and Commission Directive 2008/62 - establishing certain derogations for the adoption of agricultural domestic varieties are adapted to local and regional conditions and are threatened by genetic erosion. The proposed amendments to the Act amend or supplement the provisions necessary for the transposition of those provisions of Directive 2008/90, which constitute substantial changes in relation to the old Directive. The law thus newly lays down requirements for the marketing of propagating material and fruit orchards relating to varieties. The variety of fruit plants must be officially registered in one of the two possible official procedures, such as the inclusion of the variety in the variety list or the insurance of the variety. It must also have an official description of the variety. However, for old varieties the law provides for an exception, namely the marketing of seed material of such a variety may only be permitted if the variety has at least an officially recognised description. The law also amends certain mandatory suppliers of seed material and provides for less demanding registration of suppliers instead of prior accreditation. The law also amends the provisions relating to the conditions and requirements for the marketing of seed varieties of importance for the conservation of genetic diversity and threatened by genetic erosion. The procedure for entering these varieties into the sorting list shall also be changed. Seeds of these varieties may be grown and marketed only in the so-called region of origin of the variety, to be determined upon inclusion of the variety in the certificate. The law imposes additional obligations on suppliers of these varieties, such as registration, seed production and regular annual reporting on the quantities of seed of conservation varieties produced and placed on the market. However, seed material of conservation varieties may be produced without official confirmation. The proposed amendment of the law does not, last but, specify the tasks and powers of the authorities, such as the Inspectorate, the Phytosarnitary Administration and the authorities with the authority to conduct the proceedings. Certain obligations of seed suppliers, certain administrative procedures such as the import procedure, the appointment of browsers, samplers and laboratories under official supervision are simplified. More clearly defined is the control of suppliers as regards the quality of seeds, and last but not least the unnecessary administrative barriers are removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Franco Bogovic to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u98	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Honourable Vice-President, Ministry Representative, distinguished Madam Secretary with co-workers and co-workers. The maternity committee is six. 5. examined the Proposal for a Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants. We have learned that the College of the National Assembly is at the 19th session of the 24th. 3. He decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. In addition to the representatives of the proposers, two representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated in the committee. In addition to the draft law, we have received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the reply of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to this opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the amendments of Member Anton Kolarič, which have been tabled 29. 4. to the fifth section of the law. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 2, 3, 12, 17, 37, 38 and 39 and to the transitional provisions. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has provided a written reply to the comments in which it attaches some of its comments, as well as to the reasons why it considers that certain comments are not justified. We have also learned, as I have already said, the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State. The representative of the proposer again gave a further explanation of the bill, which was quite similar to what you heard today, so I would not read this part of the Committee's communication. I can say that the representative of the Legislative-Legal Service, in an additional explanation, said that the comments from their written opinion were almost fully summarised in the proposed amendments, but again pointed to a comment already made on Article 17 of the law on which the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that a criterion should already be laid down in the law on the basis of which the Minister would establish the necessary professional competence. He also drew attention to the content of the proposed amendment to Article 33. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food explained with regard to the comment on Article 17 that the requirements for professional qualifications would be further regulated by the regulations. With regard to the comments to Article 33, however, the opinion of the Ministry is that it is not a transitional provision, but a provision of a permanent nature. The following members of the Committee adopted, without discussion, the amendments tabled by Mr Anton Kolarič by 12, 33, 39, 40 and 42 of the Act summarizing most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The updated proposal is an integral part of this report. This is the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greeting also to representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture! I think that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants at the Ministry has done important and necessary work. It is true that there is a fundamental need to adapt the European Directive, namely the 2008 and 90 Directives, on the one hand the adaptations to the European Directive, and on the other hand certain adaptations, certain errors or shortcomings of the law already being implemented in our country. It is not going to read what this directive states and requires, but the situation in this area will certainly be even more relevant, more precise and realistic, and implementation in practice will be easier and better. I would only mention a few indents which we think are important in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Sometimes the law is also a matter of minority, so the definition of certain terms is clearer, more precise, for example: marketing, suppliers, categories of propagating material of fruits and fruit plants, but at the same time it means unifying by terms also used in other market directives, and this is considered to be favourable, positive and good. It also seems important to us that for the marketing of seed material of fruit plants there is no longer enough entry of the variety in the list of suppliers, and these can no longer provide for the entry of the varieties of which seed materials are marketed. In accordance with the Directive, varieties must also be officially protected or entered in the official register or list of varieties under the prescribed procedure. However, the essential condition for insurance or official registration or registration shall be the entry of a variety officially prepared in accordance with the protocols for the determination, equivalence and inadmissibility of the varieties used in the process of the protection of new varieties of plants adopted by the CPVO or UPOV. It is also important to note that the requirements on plant health are updated and the requirements on plant health adopted are aligned with international standards. The obligations to be fulfilled by the supplier in carrying out its activities are clearly defined. All that is required is his registration and not his accreditation. The next important point is to clarify the tasks of the Member States with regard to monitoring or control of suppliers operating on their territory and on the implementation of control over the quality of seed material of fruit plants on the market. Of course, this Directive also gives legal basis to the implementing rules to be adopted by the Commission and will have to be transposed into Slovenian legislation by regulations issued under the relevant laws. In the legal system, the bill does not in any way alter the basic design and established solutions of the existing and existing law. All these facts, foundations, goals and purposes convince us that we will support a good and necessary law in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants in the Parliamentary Group is supported and we believe it is extremely important that this market is, of course, consistent with the European Directive in Slovenia. The fact is that varieties officially registered in at least one Member State of the European Union will be marketed in accordance with the rules for new varieties of plants. However, what is possible in some way specific in this law and in Slovenia is the fact that the European Union directives also point us to preserve our old, indigenous fruit varieties. The Directive also allows for certain derogations for the adoption of agricultural domestic varieties and varieties of crops which are naturally adapted to local and regional conditions and are threatened by genetic erosion. Slovenia, we know, is one of those countries that has the most nature, so we can talk about a very preserved nature. Of course, probably all the rules that would actually lead this preserved nature to this point, so that we can market this nature, we have relatively little in Slovenia. We believe that one of the laws that will allow our indigenous varieties to be marketed is this law. Old varieties in Slovenia will be marketed if they are officially listed in the variety list, which will require at least a description of this variety. We also estimate that the costs of introducing this law are not of any concern. We note that the costs of describing the old indigenous and domestic varieties of fruit plants need some EUR 20 000 per year and will also consist of a description of some 140 varieties of fruit plants, such as apples, pears, cherries, plums, apricots, peaches, nuts, etc. We believe that this law will help us to actually enrich and preserve our genetic diversity and also allow some fruit varieties not to be lost forever in Slovenia. The law is important for us to maintain to a large extent exactly what we once had, even for future generations, so we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Since the law is about minor changes facilitating procedures or simplifying procedures, and since this law allows us to protect the seeds and fruits of some of our indigenous plants, we see that this law is important for Slovenia and that is why we support and support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is also a matter of compliance with European Union legislation, and I see no reason to oppose this law in our parliamentary group. Well, we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, on behalf of the Zares Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Seeds are necessary in order to comply with the new Commission Directive laying down certain derogations for the adoption of agricultural agricultural varieties and varieties which are naturally conditioned for local and regional conditions and are threatened by genetic erosion. In the Group of Members, we really agree that the short-term procedure for dealing with the proposal of the law is reasonable because of the substantively less difficult amendments and the addition of the law which transposes only the provisions of the Directives of the European Union into our legal order. The new law still regulates the transposition of the provisions of the recast version of the Council Directive in the marketing of propagating material of fruit plants intended for fruit production, nor does the marketing of seed potatoes. It also regulates the obligations of persons engaged in the production, preparation for the market and import or marketing of seed of agricultural plants. It shall determine the procedure for the official validation of seed material and the description of the variety in the sorting list and the integration of the data into the information system. We are pleased that the proposal for a law also takes into account the seed material of a particular type of agricultural plant intended for organic production. As we have said many times before, in the Group of Members, we have been working really hard to improve the conditions for organic production. Although this law does not directly apply to production alone, I would like to reiterate that all our efforts should aim at improving the conditions for organic agriculture and the conservation of the natural environment. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the changes and additions to the law will help to simplify and make procedures more transparent and remove certain administrative obstacles. We are also in favour of simplifying procedures, removing bureaucratic barriers, greater transparency and unifying our legislation with Europe in all areas, and we will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for amendments to the Plant Seed Material Act as it concerns the transposition of two European directives into our legislation. One Directive refers to the decision to adopt certain derogations for the adoption of agricultural agricultural varieties and varieties of crops which are naturally adapted to local and regional conditions and are threatened by genetic erosion and for the marketing of seed and seed potatoes of those domestic varieties and varieties of crops. The second directive, however, refers to the marketing of propagating material of fruit plants intended for fruit production. The draft law also lays down official procedures for the official registration of fruit varieties. It is an enrollment of the variety in the variety or for the protected varieties and must have an official description of the variety. For varieties not of interest in market production, this is mainly the case for old varieties and the proposal for a law provides for an exception, namely that the marketing of seed material of such a variety may only be authorised if the variety has at least an officially recognised description. In our parliamentary group, we hope that such a procedure will not accelerate the extinction of old varieties, but will encourage producers to register old seed varieties and, consequently, preserve them. It would be a shame to lose those old Slovenian varieties of fruit that are characteristic of our country and are increasingly lost in the flood of new varieties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! We support the law in its entirety in the Slovenian National Party, but we have some comments regarding the reduced procedure for examining the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, which is proposed due to substantively less demanding changes and to complement the law which transposes it into our legal order of a specific Directive of the European Union. Amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Seeds are necessary in order to comply with the new Commission Directive establishing certain derogations for the adoption of agricultural varieties and varieties of agricultural crops which are naturally adapted to local and regional conditions and are threatened by genetic erosion and for the marketing of seed and seed potatoes of those domestic varieties and varieties of agricultural crops. The Directive also provides for the inclusion of conservation varieties of crops in the variety list and for the marketing of seed materials of these varieties. The new law still regulates the transposition of the provisions of the revised version of the Council Directive on the marketing of propagating material of fruit plants intended to produce fruit. Amendments and additions to the law will improve and simplify certain procedures, complement the powers of state authorities and remove unnecessary administrative obstacles. The proposed law does not, however, change the basic principles of the law in force and does not change it in any way in the legal system. On the basis of this proposal we support the law in the Slovenian National Party, but in the law we lack even more effective protection of the old Slovenian indigenous plant species and preservation of these. These are many characteristic Slovenian fruit species, which are naturally more resilient, but unfortunately they are not attractive in terms of profitability. If we do not protect such species, they will completely disappear, which will constitute irreparable national damage within the framework of Slovenian agriculture. We therefore expect certain amendments to this law to be prepared in the Slovenian National Party, which will then also address this open issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u112	Have a nice hello again! Let me just say in the introduction that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the amendment of the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants. It is necessary, on the one hand, to make a substantive less difficult amendment and to supplement the law to be adopted in order to comply with the two European directives to be transposed, one in this year, in our legal order, the other in the following year. However, legislative changes are also necessary because a number of sub-legislative acts relating to this topic need to be issued. The Directives are intended primarily to ensure, by derogating from market directives at EU level, the conditions for maintaining domestic varieties of crops and varieties which are naturally adapted to local and regional conditions. It is therefore a matter of entering into the list of varieties and producing and marketing seed materials of these varieties of crops and other crops under special less stringent conditions and requirements. Known domestic synonyms for varieties will also be added to the list. In the SLS Group, we believe that this is also in the interest of Slovenian agriculture and also of our structure, which has a very rich diversification in the field of agriculture. The law on the basis of the directive does not require formal confirmation of the seed of the conservation variety, but the supplier is responsible for meeting the requirements and the State must limit the production and marketing of the seed of these varieties to the maximum quantity to a specific area where it is not allowed to be grown or marketed. It is also the State which must ensure control in this area. Members of the SLS will support the bill because it sets out a clearer and more understandable legal framework for carrying out activities because it reduces certain administrative obstacles, thus also costs, while also urgently addressing the specificities of Slovenian agriculture and highlighting our specificity, which our well-protected environment, once again, makes possible, and the tradition of this agriculture also makes possible. It is said that there are many diversifications of different varieties, which it is right to preserve them and in them we are also looking for a future for Slovenian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE COOPERATION OF GENOLOGY CHANGED PLANTS WITH OTHER AGRICULTURES, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister Dr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u114	Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable President! Today we present the proposal for a law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants. The law has regulated an area that has not been regulated for many years. So far, this area has been regulated by 15 countries in the European Union and we are among those countries that have been preparing this law since 2006. The purpose of the law is not to permit the production or even stimulated production of genetically modified plants, but only to provide a legal framework in which all forms of farming may be possible under the rules of coexistence. The proposed law concerns a type of legislation where part of the problem is already regulated at the level of the European Union, requiring additional care in the adoption of legislation. This law was forwarded to the European Commission in the coordination phase already in 2006, which made specific comments to the law which the Ministry adopted or justified through the follow-up notification procedure and thus obtained their positive opinion on the law. Since the topic of genetically modified organisms in the public and at the political level is extremely sensitive, we have always prepared the bill in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, which are mostly supportive, and the law has been coalitionly coordinated. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, cannot exclude any type of farming in its territory and cannot prohibit the production of genetically variable plants authorised to produce in accordance with Regulation 1829/2003. The common catalogue of crops currently contains 98 hybrids of genetically modified maize monsanto 810 and the approval of genetically modified organisms is at the level of the European Union. Slovenia participates in these, with its vote on the Committee on the Food Chain and its views. The purpose of the law is to regulate the existence of a choice between organic, conventional, integrated production or production of genetically modified plants so that, subject to traceability and labelling rules, the processing industry and consumers can also choose between genetically modified and non-genetically modified products. The law also lays down the legal basis for the implementation of the principle that the originator pays and that compensation is also provided in the event of the unintentional presence of genetically modified organisms in conventional, integrated or organic crops. The proposal takes into account the 2003 Commission's recommendations on guidelines for the development of national strategies and best practices for the provision of rooms for genetically modified cuts by conventional and organic farming and is prepared at one time, which is very important to take into account the specificity of the Slovenian agricultural area and, above all, the fragmentation of Slovenian agricultural land into a million 600 thousand parcels. The principle of free choice of agricultural production means that each farmer is given the opportunity to decide on one of the forms of agricultural production, thereby ensuring traceability that the principle of the producer is paid. In the event of unintentional presence where the originator is not known, compensation shall be paid from a specific intended source of budget in which the funds are paid by all processors of genetically modified plants. The amount of resources on the budget item will therefore depend on the volume of production of genetically modified plants. Genetically modified plant growers will have to implement certain co-existence measures to prevent the presence of genetically modified organisms in genetically modified crops or crops. In particular, they will have to ensure that all measures are taken to prevent the unintentional presence of genetically modified organisms in other agricultural plants and crops, in the protection, containment and escape zone. Therefore, the law provides for written agreements between genetically modified plant processors and neighbouring agricultural holdings and other landowners in a specific area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food, as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Franco Bogovic to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u116	Good day to all of you who have been greeted once, including to the Minister, a member of the Ministry. The parent working body, said the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, was discussed by this law at its 4th emergency meeting. 5. 2009 Today, in the National Assembly, it is accepted by emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 23rd session of the 11th session. 5. 2009 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Ministry of Environment and Space, Law and Legal Services, Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers, Trade Unions of Farmers, Associations of Organic Farmers, Institute for Sustainable Development and Beekeeping Associations of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal systems, and from a legislative technical point of view. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that the law on the type of legislation that has already been tabled at EU level requires additional care in the adoption of legislation. In addition, I note that, for the time being, in the field of the regulation of the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other plants, there is no appropriate practice of the Court of Justice of the European Community, which, at the final stage, decides whether the regulation of individual countries deviates from the arrangements that would assist in the drafting of national legislation. Furthermore, the Legislative and Legal Service also made specific comments to several articles of the law. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has provided written replies to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and proposals for amendments to 5, 8, 10, 16, 22, 24, 25, 30, 31 of the draft law, which takes into account most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. The amendments adopted by the Committee are set out below. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The opening presentation was given by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who was similar to what was given to us today, so I would not repeat myself because time does not allow us to do so. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in an additional explanation of the written opinion, reiterated this problem that there is no practice before the Court of Justice of the European Community to determine at the final stage whether we are withdrawing from the arrangements governed by the European Union and what position it takes. The following was also represented by a representative of the Association of Farmers' Associations and the Institute for Sustainable Development, who in particular drew attention to the insufficiently imaginative solution to the payment of compensation. In this regard, it is noted that the compensation for pollution to which the organic producer will be entitled cannot be only a price difference between conventional and organic processing. It also raises the question of where an organic farmer should even sell a conventional crop which remains unsold if he sells his crops under the trade mark of an organic farm built on trust with his customers. He also presented the thoughts of the representative of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, who felt that the proposaler had forgotten bees in the drafting of the law and also stressed the importance of beekeeping in Slovenia, which is the second largest country in Europe by number of bee families per capita. As regards the Trade Union of Farmers and the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Agricultural and Economic Chambers have not made any specific comments to this Act. Then there was a debate on individual articles, where most members expressed support for the proposal for a law explaining that the text was produced with considerable consideration, a lot of consensus and in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Ms Zareza also presented her concerns about the law itself. We have adopted all the amendments proposed below, and in the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared. The updated proposal is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Alan Bukovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u118	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I say that we will support the bill. We also support the law in the parliamentary group because it will allow control over the introduction of seeds of genetically modified plants, areas sown with genetically modified plants, and the presence of genetically modified plants in general. That's not what it was until now. We believe that the law is strict enough. To prevent irregularities in this area. So, in the Social Democrats Group, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! In Slovenia, the production of genetically modified maize is possible without any restrictions and this is not good and this is definitely not right, so it is imperative to adopt appropriate legislation as soon as possible to prevent the uncontrolled production of genetically modified crops. Since the end of the moratorium on genetically modified organisms in the European Union in 2004, the production and use of genetically modified plants and their crops has been expanding. The European Commission and European legislation in general exclude the general prohibition of genetically modified organisms from individual countries, and it follows that Slovenians are members of this community, in order to respect the principle of the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other plants. The law we are considering today offers equal opportunities for farmers to produce organic, integrated, conventional or genetically modified crops. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the bill is unfortunately the only possible protection against the unwanted presence of genetically modified organisms, because that is what this is all about. If it is not possible to prohibit genetically modified organisms in general, everything must be done to make the law extremely, but indeed extremely restrictive. For we need to know that the genetically modified organism is the organism whose genetic material is altered by procedures that change this genetic material differently, as is the case in natural situations with cross-section or natural recombination. Thus, the law will ensure equal opportunities for growers to produce what they want and from the organic to the genetically modified crop. However, the content of the law has been discussed by Mr Minister, which is why I will not repeat it because it makes no sense. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are much more concerned about the comments made on the Committee by organic farmers and beekeepers. First of all, I would like to mention the bee problem. In one of his statements, the Minister of Agriculture said that the specificity of the agricultural area in Slovenia was also taken into account in this law. However, since we also speak from 200 to 300 metres of protection zone in this law, it is certainly necessary to take this aspect into account in order to prevent the possibility of bee families being killed, as the committee discussed that the maize gene against maize will be implanted in the maize plant and maize bug, which will mean that the maize will be toxic to insects, including bees. Of course, a solution will also need to be found to prevent the transfer of pollen from maize to plants, especially an oilseed, which is a very interesting plant for bees. Producers of organic crops also have comments concerning safety belts and compensations which are not properly regulated by them. Together, we expect appropriate sub-legislative acts, which will in fact demonstrate what agricultural policy we will go through. Dear Minister, I believe that, in preparing these only, you will take into account the specificity of the Slovenian agricultural area and measures to promote environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Allow me to conclude with the thoughts of the representative of the Institute for Sustainable Development, who said that in Slovenia we need sustainable production technologies that will provide sufficient quality and safe food and at the same time preserve our environment. We fully agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we are very pleased that the law we are talking about has only come before us for three years in the National Assembly, as it fills an extremely dangerous legal void. It is true that it bears the word "existence" in the title, which at first sight suggests that in Slovenia we may be opening doors to genetically modified plants and organisms, which is not true. The fact is that the law will for the first time regulate any restrictions on the cultivation of genetically modified plants and so far anyone and anywhere in Slovenia could plant a genetically modified plant in the European Union. Of course, for once it's just MON810 corn. In Zares, where we oppose the cultivation of genetically modified plants, we are convinced that we have managed to prepare and harmonise with the European Union such a restrictive law that we expect that genetically modified plants in Slovenia will not be able to produce. Why? Our law is one of the most restrictive in the European Community. And a second time. Due to the restrictions on the dispersed land structure in Slovenia and the provision that genetically modified plants growers must agree in writing with neighbouring producers and land owners, we believe that there will be sufficient obstacles to the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Slovenia. We also welcome the fact that the law has been prepared and, in most cases, coordinated with more than ten NGOs. They gave the law in principle an agreement, pointing out only two points: some uncertainties regarding the height and determination of compensations and some problems regarding the maximum authorised level of genetically modified organisms in seed material. Of course, certain concerns and fears still exist. We will pay particular attention to the preparation of sub-legislative acts with which protection zones will be established. And, of course, we expect the Minister, as promised and assured by the Committee on Agriculture, to cooperate with non-governmental organisations and take account of the most restrictive solutions. We will by no means be satisfied with the 60 metre belts, because we believe that this proposal is absolutely inadequate, unacceptable and also professionally unfounded. We are also concerned about the prediction that there is a new type of maize that will be resistant to corn. Such maize could also be very interesting for mass production in Slovenia. And this is also a risk for us to start producing genetically modified plants in Slovenia. We will not and will not agree to a dilemma, or genetically modified maize, or pesticides-treated seeds. We are very clear in the Group of Members: Slovenia does not need to produce genetically modified plants. Unfortunately, we are faced with the fact that Europe does not allow individual countries to ban genetically modified plants. We therefore demand the following: that the Slovenian Government and the Minister of Agriculture, on the basis of a clear strategy, oppose and support the possibility of producing any genetically modified plants or maize resistant to maize. The decision has to be made at the level of individual countries, and in Slovenia more than 120 municipalities and 82% of the population have been declared against genetically modified plants. And a second time. Slovenia must do everything possible to enforce a security reservation. This is what many European countries have done so far, and it is good for us to do the same. In doing so, we support the Minister's idea and proposal that the Ministry of the Environment should immediately approach the development of a so-called mega-analysis that gathers all known research and scientific analyses that could serve as the basis for the enforcement of a security reservation and would indicate that genetically modified organisms pose a serious risk to the environment, human health and other living things. Such studies, foreign studies, our home, unfortunately, are not available enough, and we hope that this will be the first action to be taken by the Minister of Agriculture and Government in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Excuse me, Mr. Urh. It's written by Franz Jursha. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and Members. The bill before us is adopted primarily because Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, cannot impose a complete ban on the use or cultivation of genetically modified plants in its territory, and also because it cannot exclude any type of farming or cultivation of genetically modified plants of those varieties that you have entered in the common catalogue of varieties of crops and a catalogue of vegetables. In our parliamentary group, we hope that they hold to the remarks of the Minister of Agriculture that, by means of this proposal of the law, our country does not allow the cultivation of genetically modified plants and such production is regulated. This law establishes measures to ensure the coexistence or prevention of the presence of genetically modified organisms in genetically modified crops or crops, the registration procedure for production, the obligations of producers and the manner in which production areas are established without genetically modified plants, the professional training of registrars, in particular inspection and the management of damages and sanctions, was further clarified by the Minister. Two principles were followed in the drafting of the law. One is the principle of free choice and the way agricultural plants are grown. Thus, it is possible for each farmer to decide either on a conventional, integrated, organic or also on the production of genetically modified plants. In doing so, traceability must be ensured, since manufacturers and consumers will also have a choice in this way. The second principle, which has led to a number of difficulties, especially because of the need to review the notification several times on the European Commission, relates to compensation. Finally, the Ministry obtained an agreement on compensation in such a way as to ensure that the cause pays for any damage caused by the presence of genetically modified organisms in plants and crops produced without the use of genetically modified organisms. In cases of unintentional presence where the originator is not known, however, compensation shall be paid from a specific intended source of budget to which funds are paid by all producers of genetically modified plants. In our parliamentary group, we wonder whether it would not be better if, in the example of some neighbouring countries, Slovenia temporarily prohibited the cultivation of genetically modified plants. At present, only sowing of maize by Monsanto MON810 is allowed in Europe. The seed of this corn is resistant to corn and currently we do not have any major problems with corn art in Slovenia. According to the Food Safety Authority, safe food control is in accordance with European legislation in our country. According to the Institute for the Protection of Health, there is no food with the content of genetically modified organisms in Slovenia. However, despite this assurance in the DeSUS Group, we fear that our legislation does not allow safe food, but only allows it. Therefore, it is our assessment that more attention should be paid in our country to informing and educating consumers and producers about safe food. What we think would help consumers to demand quality, healthy and safe food for themselves. Despite the fact that experts are still not united on food safety, which contains genetically modified organisms and that it is still necessary to wait for proper analysis, in our Group we estimate that we need to be careful about new food production technologies, but in a way that will not hinder progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you so much for your word and a nice hello. The law we are considering today will be supported by the Slovenian National Party. The fact is that Europe is not as immune to genetically modified food and that it is not only the MON810 maize used in Europe. The fact is that a genetically modified soybean is used or planted in certain areas. The fact is that genetically modified potatoes are used in certain areas, particularly in the Netherlands. It should be said that Slovenian experts from the Faculty of Pharmacy also participated in the production or design of this potato. And this is, on the one hand, a great success, and on the other hand, it is sad that the Slovenian Ministry of Agriculture, the Slovenian Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Higher Education continue not to invite these experts to their meetings, to what kind of reflections and consultations, where they could wisely engage in this debate on genetically modified organisms. The law is not bad, it could be better. However, we expect the Ministry to draw up sub-legislative acts. First of all, with regard to seatbelts, and second of all with what is very important, with inspections. Who will control how they will be controlled, how and how they will sanction everything. And what's even worse, if genetically modified organisms spread across all proportions and across borders, how do we solve the situation? There's nothing in the marriage about that. I think this should be an assumption of this matter. Therefore, I propose that the Ministry of Agriculture convene a consultation with experts, certainly to call Prof. Dr. Borut Struklj from the Faculty of Pharmacy, which is certainly one of the leading experts in Europe in this area, and we absolutely first. It would not be bad if there were already some professional opinions in these areas. Some say that the fear of consumers against genetically modified organisms in Europe is declining. He's dropping because there's no media support. The fact is that Europe has fallen asleep, people in Europe are following media pumps and rumps, and when this is gone, there is also a lack of interest in that particular matter. That is why there is so much greater responsibility at the Slovenian Ministry of Agriculture that it does not give up on European pressures, which are mainly the result of pressure from certain producers of these genetically modified organisms and, of course, indirectly also insecticides, pesticides that are actually made by the same companies. The next step is certainly after Slovenia has to use a safety restriction and must not give up Europe to tackle the use of pesticides, insecticides, repellents and other chemical agents that affect plant growth and, above all, the environment. Although it is said that MON810 maize is supposed to destroy bees, the question here again is whether this is true. The fact is, both maize beetles and maize plants attack the plant as well, while bees collect pollen on corn. Here we can ask ourselves if it is possible to transfer from corn to, say, the oil tail, to Brassico Nigro, or not possible. Therefore, it is all the more important that experts from a particular area be included in this matter. I'll point out the inspection again. In general, inspection services in Slovenia are very poor, catastrophically poor, fed mainly professionally, I will not talk about finances, let others talk about it, but they are undernourished. And one more thing. Inspection services do not hope to react to certain places, territories or matters, because no one simply takes them into account. Therefore, this is also one area that needs to be addressed urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u128	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would first like to warn and, in part, to protest that it would be possible to adopt such a law with such difficult content by any other procedure than by necessity. But this has been accepted and we continue to adopt this proposal. Otherwise, genetically modified organisms in the world are not new. On a broader scale, they have been in use, as we know, for more than 15 years, mainly in the overseas countries of North and South America. However, since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, genetically modified organisms may also be placed on our market without prohibition and restriction, which have been subject to prescribed environmental risk assessments or for human and animal health and have been authorised to place on the market. Genetically modified plants, which contain a permit at EU level for genetically modified organisms, can therefore be produced, processed or placed on the market by everyone in Slovenia. That is why we also believe that it is imperative that this area be restricted and regulated by law. For the time being, in Slovenia about 8,000 agricultural holdings are included in one of the forms of farming where the use of genetically modified organisms and products derived from GS is not allowed. However, these farms, which grow in an organic or integrated way, are scattered throughout Slovenia. Therefore, the possibility of non-intentional presence of GS crops from this production and thus the economic damage is even greater. Frankly, the SLS Group would prefer to adopt a law at this time prohibiting the use of genetically modified organisms or plants, but we all know that Slovenia, as a member of the EU, cannot, in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, adopt measures which would in any way restrict or prohibit the free movement of goods on the Community market. Slovenia cannot therefore exclude in its territory any type of farming and cannot prohibit the production of genetically modified plants authorised to produce in accordance with the European Community Regulation on genetically modified food or feed. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Community in the case of the Republic of Austria v EC Commission also indicates that Austria failed in its intention to derogate from the Directive. In view of the really great dispersion of the Slovenian property, in some ways the fear of introducing such GS organisms into Slovenia is even greater. Therefore, we are pleased, in our opinion, to have good extensions in this law, that in fact it is necessary to have the immediate consent of the neighbours to introduce these genetically modified organisms into their range. It is also possible to identify an area that will be a region without genetically modified organisms for several years. The protection belts will be determined, the register required, the training of those involved in such production, including traceability in food supply, the system of punishment by the originator pays, including the fund for unknown harm causings. The work of the Ministry will be important and very important in the future in the part where it will be necessary to prepare sub-legislative acts. And in view of the concerns, controversy and also certain unknowns, which are not only in the world in this area, we think and support that the Minister will make such acts in the preparation of the sub-legislative acts in which he will also feel the spirit of the absence of GSs in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, the Minister, the professional associates and all of you! I must say that I am particularly proud and happy to present this position, especially because all the parliamentary groups in this House are on the same shore and we are thinking about an important evolutionary issue in the same and similar way. It also seems very important to me that the Minister of Agriculture, Dr Milan Pogačnik, has continued the path that the previous Minister has outlined in this area to the Ministry of Continuity and that we are going in the right direction, especially with cautious and slow steps. All these important views must also be communicated to the public, which does not fully understand the issues of genetically modified food. It was somewhere to read that today we were lighting a green light for these modified organisms, just the opposite. Today we will adopt a law that lights up the red light for reckless and free cultivation of genetically modified organisms, a law that is prudent, prudent, restrictive and in practice due to a number of constraints, the trend of which will also continue, I expect, the regulation on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms is almost impossible. Why is the question important and evolutionary? Because we are at a certain point of development where science knows and can offer a lot. This science has come to the aid of a commercial and because on the other hand, we can weigh it during a jump into water that we do not know how deep it is, and this progress can bring us into the future either on thin ice or into destruction. And that's why I'm happy and proud to say that today we're all getting to know each other, that life is much more than just the profit of multinationals and business. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I can say that we are also aware that over the years, this science in this area can make a big leap, a step forward that the chances of feeding millions and millions of people of the new planet will be greater and better, but we must take all these steps slowly and carefully. There are not many moments when in the Slovenian Parliament we can also talk about beekeeping, about the importance of the Kranjski grayka, about the bees that respect us and value us all over Europe, so I will devote the last two minutes of the LDS post to this issue, and in particular to some of the problems that Slovenian beekeepers see in this issue. How many of us are there? More than 8 000 and we manage over 170,000 bee families, whose main purpose and income is not to produce honey, bee products, of a variety of species, but is the importance of Slovenian beekeeping for our cultural landscape. The remarkable income of beekeeping is several times higher for society than for an individual, since, of course, without pollination with bees, a number of cultural plants would disappear or would simply be reduced by wind and crop output. We Slovenians are special in the field of beekeeping in Europe and around the world, and it is therefore important that beekeepers beekeepers are included in the damages, that beekeeping is also considered, especially because virtually all Slovenia is equally populated with bee families. In particular, the issues of genetically modified material in bee crops need to be resolved. You probably know that the limits between agricultural areas between conventional and genetically modified plants are measured in a few hundred metres. But we do know that a good bee worker flies up to 12 kilometers away. Yes, of course, in these stories he makes his own wind. Therefore, when drafting and amending these regulations, it is necessary to take into account all of this and I am pleased that today we have begun the adoption of the law in some consensual, agreed manner and in the interests of this country and these citizens will, if we continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Although two amendments have been tabled to the law, both amendments have been withdrawn. I therefore note that there are no amendments to the law and I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Point - Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. At its 15th meeting, on 22 April 2009, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law to amend and supplement the Law on Private Protection. I don't see a representative of the National Council for further explanation. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as the parent working body, considered the request for re-decision. There is no representative of the board, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I give the floor to a representative of the Government as a bill-maker. Mrs. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u132	Dear President, honourable Members! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia requests that the National Assembly decide again on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. In its opinion, it focuses on the amendment of Article 3 of the Act, which removes restrictions that private protection can only be carried out as a main activity. The legal order allows restrictions on the conduct of private protection activities or any other similar activity under conditions based on grounds of public interest protection such as the protection of the life and health of persons, public order, public security or the protection of property. However, the regulation supported by the Council of State would be only a restriction on free competition in this area, which is not acceptable. Amendments to the law are not an essential intervention in existing legislation, since such regulation was applicable from the entry into force of the law in 2003 to 2007, when an amendment took place, meaning that it has been for several years to monitor or examine its consequences. Negative consequences, no inspection at this time. However, the removal of the restriction in relation to the main activity will not affect the control of the private security activity, nor will it affect the professionality of the works of the licence holders. Indeed, the provisions of the law apply to all companies and to all security guards equally. In addition to the contracting authority, the public and the National Assembly, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, the competent inspection services, in particular the Ombudsman and the information officer. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice unanimously adopted the opinion of the Government. However, the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia consider that the amendment of the Private Protection Act is necessary and necessary and is in full compliance with the proposed arrangements for private protection activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. At the meeting, I welcome Mr Rudi Cipot, who unfortunately can no longer get a word. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Of course, I will present the position of the Group of Members as announced, although we have already made an exception to any delay. In short, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection, which we have already adopted in this National Assembly and which was part of the veto of the State Council. Veto actually happened on that article or because of the article where we tabled the amendment. At that time, the amendment was adopted by the coalition or the National Assembly. However, it is simply that we have abolished the monopolies of large private corporations in this area by such a change of law and, of course, brought them into a state of greater competitiveness, made it possible to compete with those organisations, businesses that have organised security services in accordance with the law, and, after the system so far, they have not been able to carry out these activities on the market, because our amendment was adopted at the time and, in fact, the position of the State Council or the decision of the State Council was based on this, I am pleased that we are therefore on the committee, in particular in the parliamentary group, that, at least, all the parties agree that we are backing this proposal of law. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by the mag. Franz Znidaršič - he's not here. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u136	Good afternoon. Just for a little while. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection, since we believe that this is a smaller but necessary step into the law adopted in 2003 and amended in 2007. The regulation of the area of private protection was weak and inadequate. Tragic events have also occurred and future violations of regulations, ineffective controls and threats to security and property would also result in the maintenance of that situation. In 2007, we supported amendments to the law, which significantly tightened the supervision of the operation of the security services, notably the temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in view of recent events, we ask ourselves whether this control is really effective. Perhaps we should strengthen or consider other approaches to the private security system. Members of the Slovenian People's Party want to adopt a law that will really enable the Ministry of the Interior to act even more effectively against violators of private protection rules. We also understand the State Council's warning on a change that allows private security services to be offered on the market by economic operators whose main activity is not a private protection activity at all. As I have already mentioned, it is obvious that the exercise of private security is still too small, too weak or insufficient and we do not know what this will look like after the proposed amendment. Warnings are probably in place. Practice will show whether this fear and warnings are justified and if the matter is going in the wrong direction. I think it is still possible to settle the matter in the way the National Assembly or the State Council proposes, or to reach an even better, improved law. We do not mind, however, if a large company organises protection for its own needs. Of course, in this case, it must also satisfy the conditions for obtaining the licence and for all the matters that must be followed here. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will now support the law. Of course, we also point out that if it turns out that it does not work, it will have to be changed for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. It is also a greeting to the Minister of Home Affairs. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, of course, we will not change our minds overnight, and therefore we will be able to support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Protection again, because our reflection was thorough and I think that the area that needs to be further supervised is even better regulated, and that law certainly needs and deserves. Therefore, we do not agree with the assessment of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia that the amendment of only Article 3 constitutes an essential conceptual intervention in the current legislation. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we accepted the amendment to Article 3 because we believe that private security services on the market can also be offered by economic operators whose main activity is not a private protection activity. And such a solution, in our opinion, is not contrary to the Constitution. What does that mean in other words? That we will also be understood by all those who look at us and listen. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are convinced that respected, quality Slovenian companies such as Krka, Gorenje, Mercury, and others can, and can, set up, for protection, the same quality service that will protect their interests and their assets, even more. We are convinced that they know this in their own and our public interest to do better than one night an established company, which is in a narrow private interest and is intended to serve on the market and to seek certain personal or private financial benefits. On the contrary, we believe that such a solution is constitutionally more correct, since it does not restrict the legal person involved in another activity and could organise their own security service in accordance with the provisions of the relevant law, which they have unfortunately been prevented from doing so so far. With the State Council's conclusion that the period of control over the implementation of private security was flawed in the past mandate, we fully agree. Of course, it is not possible to attach to the State Council's assumption that, in the event of such an increase in the implementation of private security, there will also be a significant decrease in the quality of these services and a great lack of transparency over the provision of these services, our opinion is quite contrary. As we re-decision on the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on Private Protection in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we stress that the proposed solution agrees with the so-called Ministry and Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister are aware of the need to further strengthen the supervision of the management of private security activities, particularly in the light of the events that are taking place, we regret them, we correct them and we want to avoid them. This is evidence from Minister Kresalov or the Ministry of the Interior that the procedures for the comprehensive regulation of private security activities have already been initiated, with both internal and external experts, licence holders, the Chamber and the Faculty involved in these procedures. On the basis of a thorough analysis of the existing situation and comparative arrangements, a strategy for the development of private security activities in Slovenia is being prepared, which will be used as a mandatory basis for appropriate regulatory arrangements for private protection activities. For all these reasons, we will once again support the proposal of the Law on Private Protection in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, because of course we want to protect the lives, security and property of everyone living in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues. At its 5th regular session on 21 April, the National Assembly adopted the Law amending the Law on Private Protection, the aim of which was in particular to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision, less difficult editorial corrections and amendments to the law. In its request for re-decision on the amendment of the law by its content, the Council of State focused on Article 1, by which the current provision of Article 3 of the basic law under which private security, with the exception of the planning of security systems, can only be carried out as the main activity. The Council of State argues that this amendment constitutes an essential conceptual intervention in the current legislation, which is not in any way related to the decision of the Constitutional Court. As already mentioned, the amendment of the law basically implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of September 2008, resulting from the adoption of a new law on private protection in September 2007. From the year when, due to known events, a number of things were done quickly, without question, and the then government introduced a law that was not acceptable to the profession. The SD Group did not back it up at the time. The Security Chamber then submitted a request for a constitutional assessment. This novel is now following the 2008 Constitutional Decision. In the SD Group of Members, we support the views of the Government, which were presented in the position of the Minister, and we will re-support the law in the re-decision. At the same time, we reiterate that we have already done so when we supported the amendment in April, that the Law on Private Protection needs to be updated and modernised as soon as possible, so that this area can be fully regulated. We expect, as has already been said, that the new law will be attached to the National Assembly for decision this year. Social Democrats, as has already been said, will once again vote in favour of the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The legislative vote will take place today in the framework of the vote at 2.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 6th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote of 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u144	We are moving on to the continuation of the meeting, this is to the vote of the National Assembly on the proposed decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting of the device, namely, the orange light must burn on the right side of the card. We move on to item 15 of the agenda, this is the consideration and decision on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Yes, please. An explanation of the voice? I'm applying for explanations of vote on behalf of [[...]] Mr. Jurša in the name of no, he's mistaken. [[...]] I ask again - does anyone want to sign up on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Then I give my word to Mr. Bezjak, an explanation of the vote on my behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Why do I want to explain this law on my behalf? We in Slovenia are now enacting a law on higher penalties for the carriage of goods - dangerous goods. I absolutely agree that it is right for this law to be aligned with the European Union. However, I cannot agree that the Minister is putting the law into consideration and confirmation before we even have conditions in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have no parking lot for dangerous goods. How will we then be punished if we do not allow these carriers, in particular foreign carriers transiting the state of Slovenia, to park. We all know that after a certain period of time they have to park vehicles, they can't drive forward because of the length of driving that the driver takes together. Where is such a carrier supposed to park a vehicle? That's why the police will be punishing him with a fine. Is that fair? Where did she go? I agree that this law will be brought into line with the European Union. However, I do not agree with the fact that we do not allow conditions first, and then we go into the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the amended draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly shall adopt the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Aliens Act." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 17th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts the following decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Travel Documents Act." We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 19th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue the 20th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants, urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr. Tanko, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u147	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u148	Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I propose a 45-minute recess for consultation in the parliamentary group on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u150	About this marriage? Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, on behalf of themselves? We have completed the explanations or the opportunity to explain the vote and, before we proceed to the decision, I give 45 minutes of leave required by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We'll continue the session at 3.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u151	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We shall continue the adjourned session and the vote on the 20th item of the agenda. First of all, I ask if the motioner wants a break, Mr Tanko, a word. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The Group of Members has held a debate on this point and I inform you that we have not formed a single position, so that each Member will vote in his/her conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - this is by re-decision on changes and additions to the Private Protection Act. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of Members must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? An explanation in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u154	I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u155	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. President-in-Office, I propose a 45-minute recess for the consultation of the parliamentary group on the re-voting of the Private Protection Act, in order to agree on how we will vote on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u157	Unfortunately, this break is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and may be requested and obtained by the Head of the Group of Members. But before he gets it and cancels the session, I'm asking if you want an explanation for the vote on behalf of the members of the groups. [[No, no, ……]] Does he want to explain his voice to any of the Members or Members? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude my explanation of the vote of the groups and Members of Parliament. I'm assigning a 45-minute recess, that's until 16.15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u158	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We shall continue the adjourned session and vote on agenda item 23. I ask if the motioner wants to interrupt Mr Jože Tanko's word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We in the parliamentary group have also examined the reasons why the Council of State has demanded veto to vote on this law and have also made a comparison with when our amendment was adopted. The Group decided to vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE CZECH REPUBLIC OF EXCHANGE AND INTERPERSONAL PROTECTION OF SECRET DATA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. It's on a man-loving thing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of two vice-governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of an information officer by means of a proposal for a decision and the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of two Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. By letter dated 22 April 2009, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint a mag for two vice-governors and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Janez Fabjan and Mag. Oh, my God, Jashovich. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Eric Kerševan, to complete the explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Respectable. The President proposed that the National Assembly appoint a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije mag. Janez Fabjan and Mag. Oh, my God, Jashovich. These are difficult professional functions and both candidates have significant and extensive experience in this field. In the framework of work with the Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank, Eurostat and other bodies working in this area, both in Slovenia and beyond, i.e. within the framework of the European Union. In doing so, it is important to stress that both candidates have adequate support from the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, with rich experience, and that, of course, the President adds his support and proposal to the current practice. In doing so, we would like to point out that this is the conclusion of a relatively formal procedure, which was carried out in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act and was carried out on the basis of a public call published in the Official Journal. There were relatively few proposals within the deadline for collecting candidates' applications, but this deadline was set above the legal minimum, so it was set within 40 days, and we are pleased to have received two such good candidates. At that time, of course, I could apply or express my interest to any other distinguished expert, including in consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups held by the President of the Republic, this option was given, but it remained in this proposal and as a good and quality President of the Republic proposes to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. - he's cancelling. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a vote on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of two Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia appointing Vice-Governors and Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Alexander Ravnikar, Social Democrats; Robert Hrovat, Slovenian Democratic Party; Franci Kek, Zares and Guido Kres, Slovenian People's Party. I, too, am a member of the Commission as chairman. Ms Mojca Prelejtnik, Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? I guess not. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, each candidate proposed will be elected or appointed, if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the voice box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will be assisted in the vote, please report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 4:40 p.m. and will last until 16.55 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue at 17.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u163	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We continue with the consideration of the cut-off point, namely the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of two Vice-Governors and members of the World Bank of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed Magi candidate. Boža Jašovica for Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 21 May 2009. Seventy-five ballots were distributed. 75 ballots were delivered. There were no invalid ballots. There were 75 valid ballots. 56 Members and Members voted against 19 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Božo Jašovič is appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. The mandate shall begin on 11. 9. 2009 Furthermore, the minutes on the conclusion of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate mag. Janez Fabjana for Vice Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 21 May 2009. Seventy-five ballots were distributed. 75 ballots were delivered. There were no invalid ballots. There were 75 valid ballots. 56 members voted against. 19 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Janez Fabjan, by majority of the votes of all Members, has been appointed Vice Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The mandate shall begin on 11. 9. 2009 We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of an information officer with a proposal for a decision: By letter dated 22 April 2009, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that she appoint Mrs Natašo Pirc Musar as an information officer. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Eric Kerševan, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The information officer is now an extremely important function. It thus carries out a fundamental task of protecting personal data against their unjustified collection, management and, of course, intervention. On the other hand, it provides access to information of a public nature. This is what enables the media, individuals, all stakeholders to monitor and transparent the work of public authorities. This is about the protection of two fundamental constitutional rights, which often need to be balanced. This is a new legal area that raises new challenges. Therefore, this function must be performed with sensitivity, caution and precision. One very clever woman once said that often the most important are the little things, details that others do not even notice. And this is also true in the exercise of this function, that it is necessary to be careful, careful, precise and careful in seeking balance on the basis of various minorities, various details. And Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar has demonstrated in her work so far that she will also be able to give the necessary attention in the future to all aspects of this difficult work. We would also like to add that the procedure under the law has been carried out by the President of the Republic proposing a candidate for election to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The law does not provide for a specific procedure for public calls for the collection of candidates, and therefore such a procedure has not been carried out with different publications in this case. However, in order to ensure transparency of the procedure and the possibility of obtaining other views and other nominations, the President of the Republic, in talks with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and at the announcement of this nomination, has also given the opportunity and the necessary time to submit any other proposals. However, because he himself is convinced that Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar will do well and faithfully the work of an information officer in the future, he did not, of course, seek any other candidates. I therefore propose to you, on behalf of the President of the Republic, that you support that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted a proposal for conclusions. Following the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups No, in fact we do not have a presentation of positions, we have concluded. [[...]] We are moving on to the debate of Members of Parliament, I apologize, first of all the announcement that no, then that Mr Jože Tanko, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has a presentation on the position of the Group of Members. [[...]] [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this is, as Dr Kersevan said, a very important function, and therefore a decision needs to be carefully considered. We believe that this procedure, which has been carried out, has not been fully carried out as we would expect, because it is not sufficient for the applicant to consult only with the person who performs this function, but we believe that a wider selection should also be made through a call for tender and only on the basis of this could others apply for this call. It is difficult, however, when the President of the Republic proposes to propose a proposal to anyone. I can say that we have concerns, reservations about the proposal in our parliamentary group, for at least two reasons. One is an affair that happened with this Washington dispatch, which was an important confidential document, published simultaneously in Ljubljana's Diary and Belgrade's Politics. Then, if you recall, the Minister for Foreign Affairs ordered internal control to determine why this document came to the public. And with the intervention of an authorised public information officer, there has been a blockade on this procedure. We believe that the task of controlling the responsible person, in this case the Minister, was more than justifiable. This happens, and it has to happen, wherever this happens. However, there have been several other cases in this case, it is said that the Ombudsman also made public interpretations of illegal decisions, published them even in a professional magazine, and then forwarded to the media the name of the addressees of the criminal action, which we do not think is correct, even before they even experienced this measure at all. Now the reference to an intervention in privacy was made by an information officer, unable to hold back, because at the same time the Office had a special rule allowing informational officer to control and review the electronic mail for the purpose of establishing or managing a judicial, criminal, disciplinary or other procedure relating to the employment relationship of the authorising officer. This is said to have been significantly worse than what Minister Rupel of the latter did when he only wanted to determine the source of the confidential document. And that's one of the reasons. The second, as well as an important reason, is the prevention of work and supervision of the Competition Protection Office in the course of the trade proceedings. In fact, you will remember that at a time when inflation has increased in Slovenia, many traders in other European countries have been lowering margins. In Slovenia this did not happen, even more, there was a reasonable suspicion of the Office for the Protection of Competition that a cartel agreement had been reached between these traders, that food prices were kept at a higher level and even that they should be coordinated. When the Office for the Protection of Competition introduced certain procedures against these wholesalers due to these suspicions of cartel arrangements, the intervention of the authorising officer came and thus terminated the verification procedure for a significant period of time. We believe that the two procedures ordered by both the Secretary of State and the Office of Competition Protection have been in the public interest and that, by this intervention, the information agents have been stopped, they have been blocked. One of the proceedings was also later challenged in the case. From this point of view and therefore in our Group of Members, we will not support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President, the Commissioner for President of the State. I must say that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are thinking positively. In our work so far, we have certainly seen, observed, and seen a lot of good things, just like the President of the country. In view of the fact that the lady acted on the ice, there could certainly be some minor, unintended errors, and since she is a connoisseur of the area, she will certainly make these mistakes in the coming mandate. However, to repeat the procedure, because we have heard a whole bunch of negatives, I will also give some of the opinions that we have adopted together on a mandate-based immunity committee. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, who proposed to the National Assembly an information officer under the Information Commissioner Act, Mrs Natašo Pirc Musar, who is of course educated, is a university-graduate lawyer, holds a state judicial examination and has done much good and good in the past five-year term, according to the assessment of the LDS. It is important that, in the past mandate, the lady has put all her loyalty, expertise into work and has also sought to establish a new function and new rights of citizens and citizens in the field of access to public information. In her work, with many decisive decisions, she also acted to protect personal data and tried to ensure a high standard of legal protection, which is essential in a modern European country. That is why, as a proposalr, we, of course, consider that Mrs Pirc Musar is a candidate who meets all the legal conditions laid down and will be able to continue to contribute to the successful development of the field and the work of the information officer. That is why, of course, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we attach and support the decision of the President of the country and we are confident that the candidate will successfully perform her work in the next difficult five-year period, as before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u170	President, colleagues and colleagues. The position and institution of the information officer is extremely important and this has also been demonstrated by the current information officer and candidate for the future information officer. I must say, as has already been mentioned today, that it has played a major role in the field of Slovenian foreign policy. However unusual, I think that one of the key actors in the field of Slovenian foreign policy was, but of course these consequences are quite complex. Because I'm going to use this term because even with respect to certain people, they often use the word complex to make some people complex. At the time the Washington dispatch affair broke out, the state was in an extremely awkward situation. It was also for me the actors of the Washington dispatch. Let's let this happen because of the surface of the ambassador, the current foreign minister, but obviously the actors in the country were counting on it, and they probably knew the possibilities offered in the house, in the foreign ministry, on such occasions. I firmly believe that if the information officer acted more selectively to allow for a partial investigation, because I cannot agree that that absolute blockade was within her competence, then the state would not suffer such drastic consequences. Because, as a result, the President of the Republic also had, at least he explained so much, that he did not appoint ambassadors. And not naming ambassadors is reflected in the last two months as a serious consequence, because Slovenian diplomacy did not have accreditation and credentials in key places. Indeed, there were business executives working there, only we all know that if the business manager announces to the current minister, he will wait months and months or he will not be accepted at all. But the ambassador has a relatively open path. Of course, it happened that Slovenian diplomacy in lobbying in European capitals was so amputated, and this is reflected in the fact that the Republic of Croatia, in some areas on the left and right, overcame Slovenian diplomacy. These consequences can be severe in the future, too. I firmly hope that the Slovenian opposition here will play an outstanding state-of-the-art role in the present, the last phase, that we have minimised these consequences. We see this affair when even in the courts this affair unfolds, we see how big the stakes have been invested in this affair. In one media house, in Belgrade, foreign diplomacy. It seems to me that total blockage at the time was unstated. Exceeding competence with severe consequences. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I must say, the Commissioner was actually an effective guard dog or what do we call it? [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Time's up. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I didn't sign up for this debate, but thank you for saying so. What we just heard, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u173	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u174	It's one big stupid thing, sorry, buddy Jerovšek. [[...]] See, before that, just three months before problems arose concerning the closure or opening of negotiating points with Croatia, Slovenia was extremely successful in chairing the Council of the European Union. And it is strange that, with all this success, she did not know how to exercise this role as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union and to persuade other members of the European Union to listen to our arguments why we oppose those documents of Croatia which, in our opinion, prejudge the border. Now he's talking about that the wrong ambassadors who haven't been appointed in time, but at the same time forget that the former ambassadors have been called off, and until the appointment of the new ambassadors they could still be in those positions, because the law allows them, with all that you say, Mr Jerovšek, forgive me, for these ugly words may be on my side, but all this is one big stupid thing. As for the candidate for the Information Commissioner, I would like to say that. In view of the fact that she was so successful in breathing for the collar to the previous authorities, I would expect you to afford such a critical and courageous information officer to these authorities as well. I don't know how you changed your mind at night. We will, of course, support it, I personally support it, because I am sure that it was very professional in its work and, of course, very sensitive. For for these things man must have a great deal of tenderness and courage in addition to all the expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Janja Klasinc has the word. Of course, a replica is not possible, a replica is possible when there is time to discuss the Group of Members and there is a debate within that time. This is where every MP is assigned five minutes and you've exhausted those five minutes - so I'm not going to give you a replica. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dear President, in these cases, when everyone has 5 minutes to discuss, everyone who responds has a replica of 3 minutes. And here there are no obstacles that Mr Jerovšek could not get a replica to answer statements that are not standing. And I suggest you give your colleague Jerovsk your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u177	Good. Replica, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I must say that I am not surprised, and there is nothing to be forgiven if the ugly words are addressed to me, which I am already accustomed to from Mrs Lovtišar Bebler. And yet, what she said - I'm surprised as former ambassadors to show such ignorance of the activities of the ambassadors and the responsibilities of the ambassador as their position towards the dominant governments. Of course, I know exactly how much of these ambassadors who have expired their mandate and have been extended through the Presidency. And of course, then the function of the rotation of the ambassadors would be abolished if you were to impose your terms. But like you said, she was successfully "breathing behind the door of power." I agree with that, but I just -- then it didn't sound like it. Madam Commissioner has been very useful to the opposition, and I agree with that, she has helped the opposition to win the election, but I do not mind that every commissioner should be like a guard dog, but she has shown so clearly that her heart is beating only on the one hand that she will not perform this function now. It is a problem that she was good in conditions when she was in power of a government she did not like. Now it will certainly not be able to perform this function so successfully, for blood is not water and is impossible to replace blood overnight. I am sure it would be good for the President of the Republic to propose a politically neutral person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Janja Klasinc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u180	The Honorable President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I fully support the proposal of the President of the Republic, and not by chance. Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar has demonstrated in her work so far that the right person is an extremely difficult person for this function. Why? Because it has an ideal combination of educational and work experience for this city. As a graduate lawyer with a judicial exam, she has legal practice, experience in the work of the judiciary, and, as a longtime journalist, she has also become acquainted with the work of the media. In recent years, many of the doors tried by the government under various political authorities to close the public with its help have been opened. The second reason why I strongly support Mrs Pircheva to continue her work in this area is that she has in all her practice been responsible for drawing attention to mistakes, individuals and institutions of various political options. And that is exactly what I cannot agree with the debates so far, because I am sure that Mrs Pirc Musareva has acted completely politically neutrally. As for the Washington dispatch on the MZZ, I'd like to say that. The information officer acted quite correctly. At the Ministry, responsibility for leaking this document or for the fact that this document came into the press, a politically unpopular long-standing and highly experienced diplomat, Mr Marian Šetinec, and a further police investigation has shown that Mr Šetinc was completely innocent. I therefore believe that it is also necessary to continue to prevent diplomacy from engaging in in investigative activities. These activities are carried out in all democratic police companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much. In the last term, I have closely monitored the work of the information officer with regard to her activities around the Owl. Here I have to say that she was quite shy and that there were quite a number of herring left behind, and this could cost Slovenia quite a lot. The Croatian national press agency Hina reported on 11 May that the information officer Natasha Pirc Muser decided that the information contained in the documents relating to the wiretaps of Janez Janša and Ivo Sanader should remain confidential. That's good. That's all nice and all right. However, Mrs Muser, in her embarrassing explanation, listened to Janez Janša and Ivo Sanader by a regulation supported by Mr Iztok Podbregar in 2004. That's a very embarrassing diction. Of course, we who have been indirectly involved in this story, in this story around Janša, Sanader and Owl, know about certain details and finesse. And Mrs Pirc Muser, who also had some kind of access to this information, seemed very embarrassing here. Such recognition that Owl was listening to Mr Sanader is, of course, a scandal and this is a great scandal, which can cost Slovenia not only international reputation but also some other dispute. We can also expect a note and a protest by the Republic of Croatia, the neighbours of Croatia may also ask whether Sova is doing so today, when again the same option as it was in 2004. Remember Mr Paul Gantar, who led this committee for a while. Today’s president of the National Assembly never once mentioned a name in public: Janez Janša, Ivo Sandar. He spoke strictly about the high policy in the neighbouring country and the leader of the opposition in Slovenia. Never to be any kind of wiretap. And this Mrs Information Commissioner is vehemently sending such a statement to the public and, of course, I cannot support this lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings again to my colleagues and colleagues, which is already late this afternoon. I was also embarrassed by the appointment of an IT candidate by the President of the country, but not at all, because I was already in a similar way repeatedly awkwardly surprised. I would like to express my objection to her work, especially at the time she intervened in the course of the trade proceedings. Let us recall that wholesalers were justifiably suspected of cartel bargaining and when the relevant services wanted to obtain concrete evidence by obtaining relevant documentation, not only papers, but also the contents of computers, i.e. the contents of hard drives, is Mrs. Musarjev 17. 7. issue a decision which has stopped the procedure. And then we witnessed a contradictory procedure when one state service in a court of law sued another state service. That's what they say. The state sued itself. Thus, one of the two services was in contradiction with the procedure for carrying out certain tasks. The Court released the investigation 14 days later, and within 14 days we know that you can transmit all the unwanted data to the relevant electronic media, wipe them out, even destroy the carrier physically, and so on. So there's nothing left of the investigation. I believe that it was not her task to prevent the matter from being checked, but to ensure the correctness of the procedure. Therefore, it is present that the name of the person being investigated does not appear in the public, but that it is only used there, in proceedings where it is absolutely necessary, namely in the courts, in the authorities of the investigation and so on. I would also like to point out that there are certain jobs where when you enter it, you give a part of yourself, a part of privacy. Take it or leave it if you go to this job, you'll be part of it. I've been working alone at Goodyear Group and a very small detail. If I wanted to send an e-mail to a neighbor who had his computer on a neighbouring network, he went to a satellite antenna, a satellite, via a satellite at a "watch doc." or "watchdog" so to an appropriate filter in the United States of America. If it has been found that the message is pure, that it does not contain, that I do not issue business secrecy and the like, it came back that way to the next table, to my associate. Senior officials or officials in higher jobs have signed in advance to check their phone calls, check their emails and even open their mail, i.e. a large intervention in privacy, only in terms of correctness of the procedure and protection. We accepted this, we could have appealed, of course, authorized - only that day is the end of the job. And I note that in this case, in the course of the procedure against wholesalers, it was essentially obstructing the procedure of another public service. So two state authorities came together in contradiction. And then in such a case it's always found that someone is right, someone is wrong. And of course, I cannot agree with such abuse of power, so I will not support the lady. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, I've heard some fantastic explanations from my predecessors. I don't write him an e-mail, but I tell him it's much easier to save ourselves unnecessary inconveniences. But I've heard some things that unfortunately don't "drink water" as they say at home. It is clear that the procedure was not carried out as expected - that is, in accordance with the invitation to tender. If those who said so read the law, they would see that the law does not provide for a public invitation to tender, but they probably did not read it. But it's very typical, an explanation of why you're opposed to someone. Ad personam is the easiest thing to do with such bodies and institutions to attack someone when you disagree with specific cases. In the anti-corruption commission, the president of the anti-corruption commission has always been targeted because some disagreed with concrete decisions. The Court of Auditors - President Soltes was often the target of criticism from exactly the same kinds because they did not agree with his specific decisions. But these bodies and these institutions are not here to be praised or built, but to do their work properly, within the framework of the law, their responsibilities and impartially. And if any mistakes have been made, including in the work of an information officer, it is right to get rid of them in order to improve, to supplement something. And the explanations, which were just before me, went in the direction that the information officer was almost guilty, that the issue of the border between Slovenia and Croatia has not yet been settled. Now, I don't know, we weren't the ones who were hunting witches at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they were being hunted by others, so those are the right address, and you're going to ask them how these things are being served. The information officer has one very important function, as far as I'm concerned. This is that he can and must break through any silence of authority, of its organs, of specific officials. On the other hand, ensure the protection of personal data. And if from the media, the label came right for Natasha Pirc Musar to be some kind of security guard in the government system, it could be a sufficient sign that she did her job professionally. As has already been said, I did not expect any different explanation from the opposition. Like I said, if you don't agree with concrete decisions, then attack whoever's boss.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u187	[[...]] [[From the bench.]] It's a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u188	I really don't know why I should [[...]] Replica - were you named? You weren't appointed. She's been having a general discussion, I don't see. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]] Replica, Mr. Tanko. Okay. Replica, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u189	Mr President, thank you for the floor. My colleague Melita Župevc indirectly accused us of performing "ad personam". In today's debate, only my colleague Darja reacted, but I said I don't care because I'm used to it. However, if the Member and the former journalist do not know what 'ad personam' is, personally - and nothing like that has been said on the behalf of the authorising officer today. "Ad personam" was the last spoken in this House by Mr. Kumer when he told our leader of the House that he was a misdemeanor, then Mr. Rozej, when Mr. Gorenak accused him of being a cowboy who was once in a self-conquering cowboy with a revolver, and also one MP was noticed that he was a Gestapo [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u190	Mr Jerovšek, in no sense did I deny any wrong performance, so I take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u191	No, you can't take her from me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u192	I'll take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u193	No, in this way it is not possible to act, to accuse an innocent man of performing "ad personam" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u194	You haven't fixed the wrong entry. Please finish [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u195	Yeah, that's the wrong way to say that whoever performed "ad personam." But we are witnessing in these days a whole bunch of attempts to stop parliamentaryism. You didn't want to give the replica either. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u196	Mr. Jerovšek, I will take your word. I'm closing the debate. Procedural? You weren't named Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u197	Look, I've got [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u198	I didn't give you my word, please. Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u199	Dear Mr. President! Usually, no one has emulated from the views of the sending groups. We have said that another procedure may be possible. If you want to apply to a certain function of more people and make a choice, it is usually to make a public invitation or a public invitation. The president didn't decide that. And we didn't propose any other candidate either, because we thought this was inappropriate. The right to draw attention to the fact that we had expected a different procedure, the broader procedure, when it was possible for others, was expected and justified from the point of view of the Group of Members. On the other hand, it is also a problem that someone constantly deals with the Members we are talking about. It may be problematic, but in that case it is also the duty of the person who is sitting in the chair to allow it, not to be disputed in the replica with the one who has the replica to make this calm, calm and as he thinks it is necessary, also answers. That is why we have this provision in the Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to point out with all this enthusiasm that the one I am returning to the debates that caused complications with the Washington dispatch, which was the one who did not properly equip this document for the award - not the ambassador, but for the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u200	Mr. Tanko [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u201	for Foreign Affairs [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u202	You go through the replica that was given to you. [[...]] I'm closing the debate. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko. You want procedural? Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u203	Sir, I was talking about the facts. Washington had an ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u204	Mr. Tanko, this is not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u205	No, it's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u206	Interrupting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u207	I've got a procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u208	Then make a procedural proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u209	Right away. Mr President, during this debate about the appointment of an information officer, it has once again proved that the rules of procedure are not exactly yours when you hold meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u210	Mr. Tanko, this is a simple comment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u211	Not a comment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u212	Management [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u213	Not a comment, but a fact [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u214	Give me a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u215	We also had a college today, and it also turned out that things are not going as set out in the Rules of Procedure. We, if only to remind you, have made a request for a general discussion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u216	Mr. Tanko, I have to take your word now, because that doesn't apply. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u217	I'll make my case. I have to say why I took the floor and I have to give an explanation and then a proposal for a decision. It's probably normal for you to let me tell you why.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u218	Please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u219	I'll give it to you. I'll just tell you what I'm going to justify. This is probably not what we are used to in our parliamentary group. And given that we have proposed that one item of the agenda be discussed in general and that the request has been tabled in accordance with Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate has not been possible. Therefore, I propose that you study the Rules of Procedure well, Mr. President of the National Assembly, so that you can lead [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you very much. No, Mr. Tanko. The advice of this kind will not be shared with me even if you are the leader of the parliamentary group. Thank you very much. This cannot be a procedural proposal in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. There's gonna be some order in this room. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar as an information officer for a period of five years. The term of office shall take effect from 16. Seven. 2009 We're moving to the vote. Please explain your voice. An explanation of the vote in your own name, please. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I will support the appointment, and this is because the current and likely future information officer has done his job correctly. Because when I heard the argument, I found no reason why I should not vote in favour. I found the reasons why the former Foreign Minister acted in one way or another, and I will not argue with him because he is not in the Chamber and because this is an explanation for the vote. But there was no reason why I shouldn't support the Commissioner. It has even been said that it acted as a good controller of power and I expect it to do so in the future. That's why all my support is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u223	This proposal cannot be supported for several reasons. Two are essential. The first is that this is a choice already in advance, without weighing between different options. It is true that the law does not provide for a public tender obligation in this case, but in such a case, it would be right to weigh between different options. Only if the policy in the National Assembly were to be unified could it be possible to follow the path set out in this case by the President of the State. Since there was no unification, it would be appropriate to consider, in this country, which of them is the most capable and competent to perform this function. And this could only happen on the basis that everyone who meets the conditions would have the opportunity to apply for such an invitation to tender. The weaknesses of these political decisions, which we have witnessed in this mandate at every step, are already emerging. One is New LB, the other is the chief of police, and so on. Other reasons for inadequacy to perform this function. The lady has shown that some of her moves made in the previous mandate have been detrimental to the country and its citizens. Let me just mention the throwing of pollen under the feet of the guardian of competition when he broke the monopolies, preventing an investigation into the so-called Washington depot, stating that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u224	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u225	eavesdropped on a foreign national and, last but not least, the relationship of the documentation from the protected premises of the National Assembly, which took place at the beginning of this mandate, one of the investigative commissions to its office. [[....]] There are many other reasons to talk about. Everyone is saying that Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar is not fit to perform this function and will not be able to act in terms of the function to which you will appoint her today. It would therefore be appropriate to allow for an application to all those who fulfil the conditions and who are competent to be able to carry out this task independently from the policy professionally and sovereignly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support Natasha Pirc Musar as an information officer because she has demonstrated in the past mandate that she can do her work properly, competently and professionally. This is an independent and independent State authority which exercises important powers in the field of information of a public nature and also in the field of the protection of personal data. These are two of the fundamental human rights, which is why it is so important that a person is competent in such a situation. And Natasha Pirz Musar proved that it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also be happy to support Natasha Pirc Musar for her election as an information officer. The reason is that the area of personal data protection is a very complex area, such as the complex area of human rights protection. In a young, emerging country in transition, I think this area is so much more important. And since we have changed the Personal Data Protection Act several times in the past and also the way we control these personal data, we have finally come up with one formula, which we call the independent State Supervisory Authority, which was also led by Natasha Pirc Musar in the past, and has demonstrated by her work that she can translate the theory into practice in one way as well. Those who have also carefully reviewed the website can see a host of questions, many problematic issues that she was able to communicate with the public. If we look at today's agenda, we also translate one application into legislation. So I will be happy to help to ensure that the counter is not burdened with another number, even though some people are passionate about it. Especially because I know that those who plow the ice must continue and build up this difficult area. And I'd be happy to support Natasha Pirz Musar because she's a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of such diverse opinions, in view of such well-founded proposals on the one hand and on the other, I wonder whether I would ask for a period of five and a half minutes to be consolidated and gathered together in our Group of Members in any serious decision. Actually, I don't know if I'd take a break of 45 minutes, so, Mr President, please advise me whether I should take a break of 45 minutes or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u232	I'd like to give you some advice. I advise you not to take a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll follow your advice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word and perhaps he should follow the preface’s advice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I can't take 45 minutes, but I've had two minutes. Once again, I cannot vote because of this conflict of interest, because the independent State authority has been hampered by an intervention, by an intervention investigation or by speculation, by the interference of another independent state authority. And the state sued itself in court, so someone was wrong because in court they can't win two. And the court certainly proved that someone was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u236	Please be quiet in the hall. Please listen carefully to the speaker!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u237	does not perform properly. [[...]] About the Washington dispatch. If such an important body, such as the Foreign Ministry, leaves as Swiss cheese or has as many holes, then it is likely that the competent people may order an investigation and it is the task of this authorising officer to ensure the correctness of the procedure, so that the person remains as secret as possible, and in this case, I think it has leaked too quickly who the subject is. So a whole bunch of irregularities, and that's why I can't support her. But I also see that it would certainly be, I don't know, it would probably be good if you were here when it's decided on her appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm not going to be able to choose some very original path because we're deciding between pros and cons. I'll decide to support Mrs. Natasha Pirc Musar. This is for a simple reason, because the law allows the renewal of the mandate, and it seems to me that the President of the State's opinion was that it would enable the candidate to do so and that she would be judged by the National Assembly is a wise decision. As I have been monitoring the creation of a law on access to information of a public nature and has been confirmed as a good legal basis for the good functioning of the person performing this function, it has also been possible in this mandate to set up an office, which, together with it, could do what citizens and citizens can expect from this official, or in this case, officials. A lot of things have already been said. But I don't think it's a mistake to ever commend a man to a politician. And I think Natasha Pirz Musar deserves a commendation. But I'm only going to mention two moments that make me think it's right to say. It certainly impressed me with her decision to protect her personal integrity when an individual online published unacceptable information about another person, a private person. And one more thing would be to say that, as an information officer, we also have about Slovenia and the situation we have in these matters. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] sends a voice to others because it helps to build awareness of how we have this matter in place, so I will support it. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you very much. An effective information officer may be a person who does not belong to the political option currently in power. But it's even better if he's a politically neutral person. For this reason, it seems to me that in this situation that has arisen, it would be logical for this political option to be thanked by the President of the Republic for its merit so far, and for its political correctness, to propose a politically neutral candidate for this function. Mr. Prime Minister, when he was performing, told Mr. Sorsak that he had assured him that if anyone tried to accuse him or bully him, he should tell him. But unfortunately, in this case, it happened. And this was not a strong enough argument for the current political option, for the current government option to recall the Prime Minister's words. But it is true that the candidate is an extremely capable lawyer. I'll give her that. With very good ability to interpret its views and views on its political options. Therefore, it could be an excellent press representative of the current government and the President of the Government, who does not have this seat occupied. There, in my opinion, it would correct the bad impression of the current government and the awkwardness of the current government and the poor governance of the current government. It would be extremely useful there in this mandate. However, it is also in this place because of mistakes that are of a professional nature, what has been mentioned in relation to Croatia, with regard to the non-state-making reference to the work of the Owl, that, for this reason, it would be necessary for the person who also [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] in this way, you run into a job that is normal to her, and we would suggest a politically neutral person to this place. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jože Tanko has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. The human rights paradigm, which has been told several times or many times in the National Assembly, has some inertia. And this inertia is not in line with what was said. Thus, the human rights paradigm predicted a course — decisions that are made going in the opposite direction. Actually, I wouldn't go back to history, but if you want Slovenia to work better, then it is also necessary to allow these bodies, which we call them, to ensure proper supervision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u244	Please, peace and quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u245	If, in the previous term, an institution has been malnourished to have acted differently or worse, you have every opportunity in this mandate to put an end to these matters, which may have proved to be worse in the previous part. [[...]] We are now in a situation where the failure to implement the human resources paradigm is justified by the use of good practice from the previous mandate. Now we've come up with something else entirely. Given that many appointments have been made in this mandate, which have also caused many problems in the coalition, let us only remember the fights for the New Ljubljana Bank, remember the last dispersion in the HIT authorities, I would suggest that this body and this vote are not supported by the coalition. The worst thing is when he appoints only a coalition into human control. At that time, the conflict is inevitable, things are happening more or less in public, threats are coming with resignations, and concessions are also taking place. All these things are coming out to the public. In this case, too, the monolithic formation of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society is probably not expected to have a different outcome than it did in the recent HIT, when two currents were in conflict, and the public is talking only about who defeated whom and only about who will pay who else to calm the matter. I believe that it would be far more appropriate for these authorities, as we call them in the National Assembly, to be perfected and perfected in a different way so that the opposition would also receive more mandates, more people, more votes, because that is the only way these authorities will work. All the different decisions to be taken mean only the conflict between coalition parties, coalition factions for who will have more or more influence than they already have. We will not support the proposal in our Group of Members. We will also not support it because, in our opinion, the proposals we have proposed are competitive, appropriate, including with experience in this area, but no one has received enough votes to come to a place among the candidates who have been nominated that would allow for election to the Court's Supervisory Committee. We will not support the proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I forgive myself for trying to cancel in these minutes the 10-day hearing of some things in the National Assembly, and I will also try to say this opinion on behalf of the Group of Members in a few facts. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Volution Commission in appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Compensation Society. We believe that the proposal is of sufficient quality to carry out this supervisory function properly and effectively. I must also reject all insinuations because the whole selection process of these candidates has been conducted in a transparent and correct manner. Of the 8 proposals, five were selected on the Commission's terms of reference. And you also have these on your desk today. In view of this real confusion and the humane fog we are hearing today from the opposition, which, with its human resources counters, which you can also monitor on the websites and often listen to their results in this Chamber and at the meetings of working bodies, it is important to say that it is primarily a strategy for public opinion making this Parliament uncreditable and a government coalition unworthy. This is nothing new for me and our Group of Members. That was expected. In the heat of anger and disappointment that there were no voters and voters in last September, they did not commit their trust in the leadership and management of this country, one after the other, to a kind of claim or assumption that they did not see the underlyings. And today we've heard a lot of these. More. The truth has become their underlying argument. Aggression, creating chaos and disrespecting parliamentary standards and working methods. The fact is more than clear: the consequences of the human resources tsunami, which lasted the entire previous term, will not be eliminated within the next two mandates. This is the legacy that this government must face and must face and, of course, survive. In the performances of some opposition Members, the second line of assessment and claims, which are mostly fabricated, distorted and referred to the parliamentary practice of the previous mandate, which is considered to be the best thing to forget. Therefore, these Members may be the last ones to moralise and manifest ignorance, incompetence, breach of business and other rules and so on. It is high time that you can use one of these handy tools that you can use every day and look in this mirror in the morning. So they teach you lessons. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u248	Please limit yourself to the presentation of the position, not in accordance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u249	For the correctional exams that we have to hear from the mouths of those same ones who had a canvas and scissors in their hands yesterday or the past four years, it reminds me most of all how the wasp tried to teach the bee how to work during. [[...]] And finally, because it was today, and I'm going to take this opportunity, mentioned needlessly by my last name, I'm going to explain later in the debate what political misbehaviour means. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u250	Mr. Kumer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u251	Like I mentioned or political homelessness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also do not know why my colleague was interrupted when he represented the views of the Group of Members, because there was no controversy, except that, based on experience from the past, he presented the position of the Group on this current proposal for appointment. Of course, I thank you for all the concern, for the training we have received today regarding the recruitment. The proposal, in another way, to make it better, of course, can be acceptable, but at the same time, in another way, to make it better, it says that it was bad the previous way and that it was bad supervision, which can logically be concluded. Slovenia works better if they are new supervisors. Here I can agree to be better. With regard to the conflicts within the coalition, let me say that there are no conflicts within the National Assembly within the coalition, not even major misunderstandings and disagreements, and I have not seen any problems in the human resources field in the past six months. With regard to derogations, if someone resigns and does not agree, it can, of course, be a new way for some to operate in this mandate, as everything has been actually agreed before. And where everything is politically agreed, then there are very few derogations. However, I wanted to apply for the debate mainly because I wanted to say that the formula proposed today for the Supervisory Council is that this is the formula used in the previous mandate. This is the formula 4 : 1, or so-called SDS formula. Four coalitions, one opposition. And we simply accepted this formula and proposed candidates. And the formula, you won't believe, remains exactly that 4 coalition, 1 opposition. There's nothing new about the frame-up, so I'm so much more disturbed by this misdirection. This, Mr Tanko, that you say you expected better, I am sure it will be better because of the names that are proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc. I apologize, procedurally, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u255	Mr President, of course you know that I will protest and that is why you wanted to avoid my procedural intervention. However, what has been happening lately, the spread of intolerance, obstinacy and insults, even in the performances of parliamentary groups and positions, is unacceptable. And, Mr President, you should intervene. You did not intervene when Mr Kumer had Mr Tank as a street political bum. And you didn't intervene in this vanity when he said behind the pay phone that we should set up a mirror and look at each other. To Me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u256	Mr. Jerovšek procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u257	The poisoning of Slovenian political space with impatience goes to incredible proportions. I have to say, even at games like the basketball game of MPs with Maribor's entrepreneurs, when Mr. Anderlich happened to make a personal mistake, that he hit a little off the rails, I have to say, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u258	Mr. Jerovšek. It's a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u259	Unwitting opponent, the commentator said that there was a Praiser in that. [[...]] Not Kacin. Kachin hit Praise. And he interpreted it as if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u260	Mr. Jerovšek, I'll interrupt you. I took your word. I took your word. This has nothing to do with it. Please, if you'll sit down. Please, Mr Jerovšek, stop doing such things because you know that these are not procedural issues. Please, Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say, this is really amazing. Obviously, MEPs are already taking the floor themselves today, even if the chairman does not give them the floor. I will support the proposal of the supervisors in front of you. Mostly for one reason. Because the previous government has introduced best practice. We have heard this in this House at least a thousand times in this House. And this best, excellent practice was that on the Court's Supervisory Board there was a key: four coalitions, one opposition. This key was followed consistently by us. Maybe our mistake is alone. It is that we have uncritically summarized best practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u262	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Like I said, I'll explain why I used that word at the time. For those citing the magnetogram, please also read the magnetogram of the leader of the parliamentary group, who, among other things, stated behind this microphone and compared the Prime Minister with the street liner. To act like a street liner. And my reaction to this insult of the President of the Government was because I found no other excuse to say that it was a political bum who could work things out with a street liner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you very much. You weren't appointed. Mr. Tanko, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u265	Your Honor, Comrade Kumar. It would be good if we read that tape again. I said there was a lot of stories going on around there, like someone was turning them on the line. I didn't say it was him. I said it was him. And you actually said he was. That's a big difference. One is a comparative finding - that's what I said, and you're talking about facts. And there's an important difference. And if you found that you were wrong to mention the matter, it would be right, given that she is a cultural minister of the National Assembly, to consult with you, perhaps you would have defined something different. Now a number of meetings of the National Assembly have passed so that we can use this culture and prove it. But I think it's inappropriate for these stories to happen again. Even now, even in other cases, and it would be good for a coalition that has so many votes and so much potential to use this potential differently. If not, at least comparatively, without talking about facts that don't hold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, I'll give you procedural. Tell me a procedural proposal now!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u267	Yes, Mr. President. Now was an opportunity to tell Mr. Kumar that he finally apologized for the unheard of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. This concludes the debate. Procedurally, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u269	I think you need to be correct, I'm gonna abuse you now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u270	No, you won't!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u271	I apologized that day. [[...]] A colleague came here, Mr. Tanko, and I tried to apologize to him here if he took this as an insult, and he took my hands off and went. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u273	And please don't make me do things! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u274	In this matter, it is possible to clear things up with each other. We've heard both sides, everyone can read the magnetogram, but at the very least it's connected now to the treatment of the point we have. I concluded the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 23. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE COST LAW, THIRD CONSIDERATION under the urgent procedure. On Tuesday 19 May 2009, the National Assembly held a second reading of that draft law in the context of an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading, this is the debate on the amendment tabled that you received on the bench. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u275	The present amendment, which we have tabled for the third consideration of this excise law, speaks of a simple fact which I have tried to explain in the course of the debate on this law. The point is that it is possible to pay with cash to buy the fuel from the pump. This Article makes it impossible for carriers to pay cash fuel. This means that when the carrier comes to the pump, he can only pay cashlessly with a credit card. As explained by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, it was understood that this was because of preventing abuses. However, we do not think that abuse can now be attributed to carriers, because in our country there is cash, I am sure of this, also a means of payment and that the authority which controls this must take care of the abuse is called an appropriate customs and tax inspection. In fact, it's only a cash-free payment that's favored, and it's not money. This amendment would also help carriers significantly. You know they're in a difficult situation and their cards are blocked many times. And if he comes for fuel with money that's a legitimate means of payment, he won't get his allowance back. That means we're making a distinction. I think that if this amendment is not supported, we also have a problem with its constitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2 to delete the last sentence of Article 22. In our view, since the provisions of Article 2(2) already clearly state that buyers, the right persons who carry out a registered activity, have the right to reimbursement, reimbursement of the excise duty paid, namely for gas oil, which is proven to be used as a commercial fuel. The 24th item also provides for a more detailed refund procedure to be laid down by the Minister of Finance. It is said that control for the refund of excise duty has already been laid down in this sub-legislative act. In our view, this provision is unnecessary in paragraph twenty-two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u279	Thank you very much. If this amendment is not adopted, then he will have the right to refund the excise duty to the person who will pay with the payment card, not the one who will pay with the cash. This is a simplified content of this amendment, which is not right. And it's constitutionally controversial. Since it cannot depend on the method of payment whether someone is entitled to reimbursement of the excise duty provided for by law or not. We believe that it is right to accept this amendment because it does not prevent control of the intentionality of spending. The method of payment is not one that determines the purpose of spending. Controls are invoices, invoices and so on, which in any case are issued and must be exhibited in any case. It is said that this amendment only states that, irrespective of the method of payment, the debtors are entitled to reimbursement of the excise duty. However, if it is not accepted, only those who have paid for the fuel using the payment card will be eligible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Those who have ever run or had any financial powers in companies know that the use of cash is already limited in legal traffic. It is limited to prevent abuse, especially money laundering. Unfortunately, even in this case, abuse is possible and, in a number of cases, it would be much easier for an entrepreneur to have a full history. I know from my experience, before I was elected as an MP, that with restrictions on the use of cash, I had problems when I was leaving. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u282	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u283	after the purchase of material to other countries. [[...]] But that's what happened, and we found a solution. It's not just paying with a credit card that's all that's possible. It may also be possible to pay according to the estimate or it is possible to deal with the order. So it's not just plastic money. That is why this amendment, despite trying to prove itself to be good, is in fact a bad one, for by solving one salary, it opens up a substantial number of other problems. A good entrepreneur who deals with his business in the right way will have no problems with unforeseeable payments or will have an alternative that can also solve unforeseen payments without cash. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In this work, I actually agree with my colleague Luke Yuri that cash is actually limited at the end of the day. But, you know, the cash limit on independent entrepreneurs at the Chamber of Commerce is much higher. Then, unfortunately, we have to shut down the Chamber of Commerce and do everything d.o.o. That's the logic of this law if we don't accept this amendment. We are giving this excise duty refund for a certain period of time, in a situation of crisis, they will be able to collect accounts to obtain reimbursement of excise duty. Why couldn't those craftsmen, p.r., pay the gas with the cash and this account, this bill on the taxpayer's tax number, justify the reimbursement of the excise duty? I can't understand that. Because this will cause injustice to those S.P.s, carriers of the Chamber of Commerce. I agree that this is good for the Chamber of Commerce. But not to do the problem again, as it was already done in December, when we made the Chamber of Commerce useful, but with January we were actually correcting the law. Because we're gonna have to fix this, too. I absolutely agree that actual payments go more or less through cards. But you need to know that now, even in these times of crisis, these craftsmen, these members of the Chamber of Commerce have major problems paying. 80% of fuel is the cost of this carrier, fixed cost. And these craftsmen have, believe me, if they had cards, blocked cards, because of the irregular payment they came into a better situation, they started paying regularly, but they don't get credit cards. Then we must also talk to oil companies in the National Assembly in order to make these things possible for these craftsmen. With this amendment, if we do not accept it, we will also shut down so many craftsmen, etc. carriers in Slovenia. If that's the point, please. But I don't think that's the point. We need to encourage work, the economy, not laziness, as in the end, to stimulate the week with these measures that we are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? I'm asking you to sign up. Procedural? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I propose that this amendment should be defined by the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of these emerging dilemmas. I suggest a shorter suspension of the session in five, ten minutes. I would then like to hear the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this proposal. I think that the proposal for this matter is correct and that we should clarify these matters here as long as they are open so that it is not too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u288	I see no reason to define the legal and legal service. There is no notice of non-compliance. If the amendment had been adopted, the law would not have been inconsistent and could have been adopted to the end. That is also the case if the amendment is not accepted. From this point of view, no definition of the Legal and Legislative Service is necessary in terms of non-compliance. And that's all the law enforcement could say. We do not have a notice of non-compliance, it is in agreement if the amendment has been adopted or has not been adopted. We continue the debate if anyone wants to. I note that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I'm informing you that the Law-Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the bill would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of voice. I ask for explanations of vote on my own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm sorry. Mr Černač, Mr Likar and Mr Bezjak have applied. Mr. Blackach first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u289	Even though this amendment has not been adopted, I will support the marriage. The financial implications now that it has not been adopted will be significantly more favourable to the budget and significantly less favourable to those to whom this law was intended. A whole bunch of small businesses, farmers who have been marked today to launder money on petrol pumps, I don't think they do, maybe some car washes, some tires, some working machine, and farmers and these small entrepreneurs are laundering money on petrol pumps by cash-paying fuel. Please! This hall is really starting to look like a circus, not a theater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u290	Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I'll support the law myself, considering it brings something positive. I am sorry, however, that the amendment has not been adopted, because just the opposite, as my colleague has said before, I think that cash must be accepted everywhere, without certainty, and real card business can be rejected. Cash payments would, in my opinion, be only an exception and not a rule, so it is a shame that we did not vote on this. But I will vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I certainly intend to support this marriage because it's good. But it's only good for 75% of the people. For the other 25 percent of the people who could apply, not. I therefore hope that soon we will make a change to this excise law so that the other 25% of taxpayers can enforce these things. That's why I think the law is fine, but with a big mistake that we're going to have to fix soon. I see no reason why we have to discuss some things twice or three times to adopt laws. We have too many other problems in the economy to deal with, not to go pink punk today but to pink punk tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u294	Thank you. I ask again for an application for explanations of vote in my own name. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The law is aimed at improving the management conditions in certain sectors, particularly in the area of commercial transport in agriculture and agricultural production and in certain other areas. As it is said, it is one of those laws that help in these times of crisis not only to survive but also to help develop. Also, some of our amendments or our ideas, which were realized when we asked the President of the Government the right question in these areas, have contributed, and I think that good proposals have been made from this. This is also why I will personally support this change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u296	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll vote for the law. Dilemma: cash or credit card, I think it's been too much said, I'm not going to go into this anymore because I'm just not going to convince anyone. But I would like to say this when we talked about these percentages of returns, let me say that the situation on the market is very difficult. The pressure to lower prices is desperate. They are all geared towards lowering prices and thus improving their business performance. But something else is going to happen with the motorists. We'll raise the tolls. These tolls also bring a huge cost. And I'm telling you, we're probably going to have to talk again soon about fixing this law and most likely not only whether we're going to pay cash or not, but also what this percentage is going to be. Once again, I'm going to vote for the law, I'm in. In this case, in order for everything not to be so black and white, it is necessary to commend at least the will that has taken place at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. I will support this law myself, and I think that the Government has made the right decision when it also proposed a change to the excise law after a reduced procedure. The response to the economic and financial crisis has certainly reflected to a large extent even first possible for carriers, both in terms of goods and passengers. However, it is really important that we have also improved this law in the National Assembly in the sense of further burdening the area of agriculture and forestry, so that I think that Parliament has also helped to make this law even more effective. That is why I will support him, and I also expect him to act as soon as possible. In addition, I believe that, despite these differences about the means of payment, anyone who feels that he can make a relief somewhere, I know that he can organise himself, prepare himself for it, and in my opinion it will happen in practice, so that he will act precisely in the case of all those who have the opportunity to apply this reimbursement of excise duties. I support this law and I want it to work as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u301	Thank you. I will also support the law myself, but I think it is a shame that the amendment has not been complied with, because in some ways cash payments are disstimulating or, I don't know, in a country where there are agreed and prescribed payment methods, where sometimes even immediate payments are stimulated by certain discounts, why it is not treated equally. If that were still the case, then you'd be married to one A, and that's how he'd make a little mistake, but I'll support him anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I will support this law myself because it brings something good to one important category, it is to carriers, and it gives them back some of their excise duties. However, I must say that I would like it to be twice or three times a year for the European elections. Then we'd have more laws like that, because government parties make laws that they like before the elections. But they won't be long-term marriages. Yesterday we had Lahovnik's law, which was also a preferred vote, I suggest Minister Pogačnik do something for his client and for farmers and give a similar law because I will also support it. With regard to the preferred votes on those elected as Members, I propose that people give a preferential vote to Mr. Zammernik, who has always been sincere about all these categories, carriers, farmers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-21-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u304	Mr. Jerovšek. Please. Please. Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Monday, 25. 5. 2009, 10:00 p.m.
