ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended: The Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Eva Irgl. I find that the meetings of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem can be attended, while the others are excused by Eva Irgl, Joško Godec, France Tsukjat, Janez Janša, mag. Branko Grims, Rudolf Petan, Ljubo Germič, Damian Perne, Miro Petek, László Göncz and mag. Your Clavor. I invited the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 34th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 9. 11. 2009 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda be extended by considering the Proposal for a Decision on the 2010 and 2011 sales programme of state-owned assets, EPA 612-V. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word from the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check your voting devices. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as 26A. Point on Wednesday, 25. 11. 2009 On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 21, of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of 27 Members and Members of Parliament proposed that the National Assembly decide on a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly to amend the Law amending the Road Traffic Law for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3,500 kilograms, EPA 6678-V, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of air navigation services, EPA 679-V, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Secret Data, EPA 691-V, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial planning, EPA 692-V, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on public roads, EPA 693-V, Proposal for amendments to the Law on the implementation of public interest in culture and EPA 695-V, and Proposal for amendments to the Law on the Law on Agricultural Law of Slovenia, the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of Poland and the Law on the implementation of Culture, EPA 695-V, and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Council, and on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that request will be considered to be the 33rd A item of the agenda on Tuesday, 17. 11. 2009, after the final vote. We are now moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 11th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I'm adjourning the session, which we'll resume at 1:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. We're continuing our adjourned session. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements of 38 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: mag. Mitja Gaspari - Minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs, Dr Ljubica Jelusič - Minister for Defence, Samuel Žbogar - Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Henrik Gjerkš - Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr. Milan Pogačnik - Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Boštjan Žekš - Minister without a source, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, and Borut Miklavčič - Minister for Health. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The first question will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav, Slovenian People's Party. Please, procedurally? Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly, for your word. And a nice hello to all of you. I propose that we put all the questions set out under II and there are no representatives or ministers to the next meeting. I would like to remind you that these are questions that we have already put to this meeting because there were no competent ministers at the time. I note that today, too, there is no Minister Žbogar and some others who have questions here, so I suggest that we put all those questions or all those answers to the next meeting when the competent ministers are here. I think that the matter is perfectly correct and should also be acceptable to you, Madam President, because it is impossible, we have items on the agenda to which the Minister is responsible, and only the Minister, but he is not, or he is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much for this initiative. I have to be honest with you that I don't understand perfectly well. Questions that have not been answered by ministers, because they were not here, may be asked and a Member or a Member may be asked to reply in writing or not. However, if these questions were not answered from the previous sitting, then it is certainly clear that these questions are raised until the Minister comes to the meeting. I don't see any reason to make any decisions here. So I suggest we just start by giving the word mags. Radovan Žerjav, Slovenian People's Party, to ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Recently, more experts and distinguished Slovenians and Slovenians have been appearing in public in connection with the ratification of the arbitration agreement, expressing their genuine concern about the content of the arbitration agreement. One of the most respected Slovenians, author Boris Pahor, for example, says that if a dispute cannot be resolved in a fair and just manner, it is better not to make any harmful decisions for a while, even for the sake of Croatia's entry into the European Union. A constitutional expert, Dr. Miro Cerar Jr., says that the more he reads the arbitration agreement, the more serious questions he raises. The most worrying fact, however, seems to him to be the absence of a broader national consensus on such an important issue. Let me not mention the following points of view. The highest authority of Dr. Frances Bučar, one of the fathers of the Slovenian state, then also Dr. Frances Čebulje, former Constitutional Judge, married Hribar and others. All the above-mentioned dignitaries, experts, intellectuals are difficult, in fact impossible to read about populism or even unreasonableness, nationalism, which we have been receiving from the Slovenian People's Party all the time while defending a just solution to the border between Slovenia and Croatia. The arbitration agreement did not even raise the question of what is most useful for Slovenia. There is no debate on this, let alone professional discussions. The government and the policy with you at the helm have taken the view that the agreement is the best choice without giving any arguments or evidence. All your energy, the energy of all the "spin doctors" of the Slovenian public opinion is focused on the question of how much such a solution benefits the Government and how to outflank the opposition in order to prevent it from making use of all the legal means available to it in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. The eloquent proof of this has been your invitation to the opposition to withdraw your transitional and our subsequent legislative referendum on the ratification of the agreement. Therefore, in the light of recent developments around Croatia's unilateral declaration of non-rejudication of the border and the American position of support, such a declaration and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I ask all the announced referendums and various interpretations of the conduct of the proceedings around them, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government: [[...]] Are you prepared, for reasons of Slovenian national interest, to achieve the broadest possible political and professional consensus, at least temporarily stop all activities related to the preparation and ratification of the arbitration agreement itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Dear Member, President, High Council! First, a few facts to avoid misunderstandings in public. I have the appropriate notifications from the United States of America that they have not witnessed Croatia's unilateral declaration in the process of ratifying the arbitration agreement. As you know, the Swedish Presidency of the European Union, which is an official witness to the agreement, has also not put itself in such a position as to bear witness to a unilateral declaration. Well, first time and most important. The President of the Croatian Government and I have signed an agreement in the form presented to the public. No unilateral declaration was attached to it at the time of signature. The legal impact of unilateral declarations in the ratification process is more political than legal. And once again, there will be no misunderstanding: not only has the Swedish Presidency not witnessed a unilateral Croatian statement, I also, as it is said, duly informed the United States that they have not witnessed this unilateral statement. So much for the public's explanation of the facts. Another time. Here was used one claim worthy of attention. You said, if I recall correctly, Mr Member, that "the government is trying to outflank the opposition, or something like that, to devote more to it than anything else. Let me be very honest with you. If you want - and you know yourself because you were a minister and in a responsible place - if you want to solve the big problem, you must have a clear hierarchy of goals in front of you. When I, and the Government, tried to solve this problem, the hierarchy of objectives was perfectly clear. It is at the top: it is fair to resolve the border with the Republic of Croatia and to resolve one of the controversial issues that weighs on both countries, both nations, for 18 years, and to open the way for a greater political and economic impact in the Western Balkans. Other objectives are all short-term and subordinate to this. I've been talking to you and I'll talk to you as representatives of the opposition. I've been talking, and I'm going to talk to the professional public. No offense, you're quoting the authorities that I'm giving them the hat down, but you might also mention those who have clearly put themselves on the side of the agreement, such as, say, the first President of the Republic - is it too little authority for you? We could quote the current President of the Republic, who is, among other things, an international legal expert, for example. I understand everyone's trying to say what's nice to him right now. What corresponds to the Republic of Slovenia is that upon signature it ratifys the agreement. Whether we go to the Constitutional Court or we go as a government to the referendum - all of this depends on the government's decision tomorrow at 5 p.m. Let me say this again: As far as I'm concerned, neither one nor the other is necessary, as far as responsibility is concerned. I take it subjectively and objectively for this agreement, along with the Government. As far as constitutional doubt is concerned, we do not ask this question if we decide to do so, to the Constitutional Court, because we would question whether it is the procedure for the formation of an agreement or its articles, but because we want to withdraw one of the contentious debates from the referendum, whether it is a constitutionally disputed matter or not. Because it's about the referendum. I didn't buy anything, as one of the opposition champions said. I said if anyone thinks we're giving a referendum because we want to place responsibility from our shoulders on the people, it's not true. However, since the question of the referendum has been mentioned so many times, I admit that if, in any case, a decision on the referendum falls in this high house, then the decision to ratify in the National Assembly should fall. I propose to this High Council when it will raise the issue of creating it in a way that is best suited to the content of the question raised at the subsequent legislative referendum: Do you agree with the signing and ratification of the border agreement reached by the two Heads of Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer mag. Crane? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. In fact, I expected such an answer, but I would like to place it on the heart of you, Mr President, that at a time when, because of the overcrowding and fatigue of people, citizens and citizens, if you like, the subject of solving this border issue is not a wise matter for any price to pay for any solution. Every price, even to solve this problem, is not appropriate. Any price. Especially this one, I think, is too high. So we don't solve this problem because we all have it over our heads, knowing that the solution isn't optimal and it's not good, and because once it has to be solved. Dear Mr. President of the Government. Listen, after all, to those who think a little differently, from those authorities that you mentioned: Dr. Bučar, Mr. Boris Pahor, Dr. Mark Pavlih, Dr. Mir Cerar, Jr., Dr. Franz Čebul and others. These certainly are not populists, they certainly are not nationalists - what is evident to me many times and also to the Slovenian People's Party. They certainly did not come forward because they had political intentions or ambitions, if you like, they only came forward because they were concerned about Slovenia. And I suggest we do another round of interviews. And please stop the propaganda that was here today in the Slovenian news where the decision is made [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on arbitration or against the decision to war with Croatia or for peace. [[...]] And that seems a little too much to me, and that makes your boss. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	First of all, as far as the price of rescue is concerned. I said when I spoke about the hierarchy of goals, that means a real solution to me - a just solution to the border. Both countries must be satisfied with this solution. The agreement, which is prepared, takes into account the vital interests, respects the principle of fairness, takes into account other circumstances relevant to the just resolution of this dispute. What's the problem, and you know it, is time-consuming. In 2001 it was possible to get into a situation where Croatia said "no" when the presidents of the governments initialled the agreement because Croatia had been far from the end of the negotiations for many years. Actually, she hasn't even started them yet. Now it's different. Croatia is ahead of the conclusion of the negotiations. And I would ask you to answer two questions, though, Mr. President, I believe this is not in line. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Mr. President, it's only rhetorical.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	I'll answer with a rhetorical question. Question 1: If there is no border between countries, will you support the accession treaty with the Republic of Croatia for its entry? So what do you want: that Croatia, if the border is not set, is a member of the European Union or not? What's in our interest? And second question, Member: What will you, as well as perhaps a new authority, do in this tense time when it is necessary to decide, do better to solve the border? If you know how to answer these two questions, I will, as I say, take the time to think about it, but otherwise time is running out without it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much. So, the question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by the Victory of Jelinčič Trimeniti, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Nice hello to you all! Mr President, I ask, although something has already been said: How do you justify the signature and support of the Americans to Croatia by the unilateral declaration annexed to the arbitration agreement? It is true that the Americans were not witnesses, but Mrs Kosoreva has ensured that this document will be signed. That's not really necessary to sit with them, but they're going to postpone the signature. Is it perhaps because of the wealth of oil and natural gas at the bottom of the Adriatic Sea that Americans intend to draw? Is it that they then help Croatia enter, or is it possible here that the sea would water Istria, as Clinton said, but at the same time he forgot that in this case we would have 25 meters of water in the middle of New York? In short, a whole series of questions are emerging, even somewhat serious. And in the end, it turns out everything I said about the Americans is true. I would say something, Mr Prime Minister; I think everything must be subordinated to the interests of Slovenia, but not to some good neighbourly relations. And here I would show you another historical document, the map is from 1924 and printed by the great mayor of Maribor. And here you can see that by 1929 Slovenia had completely Medmurje and where Čakovec was within Slovenian territory. In 1929, when the authorities were transformed into bananas, they took this part away from us and gave it to the Croats when the Slovenian government nodded, which continues again today to the benefit of the Croats and to the detriment of the Slovenian national territory. I don't understand what's wrong with this when I show up here when someone tells me I'm a nationalist. We are proud in our party that we are nationalists; for if you love yours, you can love others. Those who pretend not to be nationalists are traitors, do not know what and do what is beautiful, but they are only interested in their own interests and their own promotion. It's terrible things you're forgetting, Mr. President. I understand that you have young counselors who don't know this or anything else, but maybe it would make sense for you to take even younger counselors, those who have barely finished high school, because maybe they've only learned something in history and haven't forgotten everything yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much. President of the Government, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Mr Member, first of all, because it is not the first time that the exercise should be repeated. The United States is not witnessing a unilateral statement by the Republic of Croatia, we have all the necessary notices and let this, not to the public, no longer concern you. What's interesting and if it's not a secret, fellow Member, you know that I've always been genuinely curious when you gave me the border papers, let me tell you the next thing. At the proposal of the previous speaker, my fellow Member, in order to achieve a good consensus in Slovenian policy on the resolution of the border, the performance by my colleague Jelinčič is a first-class example of how this is not possible. Comrade Jelinčič says that the cut date for him is 1918, while you, if I understand correctly - including all others, also with me - say that the cut date is 1991. That's an essential difference. Do we agree? So if we reach an agreement on all other issues, we can't get it around a key matter in every agreement, that's the cut-off date on which the border will be set - the one on land and the one that was never set, that's at sea. So, for the first time: consensus, we see that it is not possible and it is necessary to seek to enjoy some agreement as much support as possible. It is necessary to do everything and it is the responsibility of the Government that the public knows everything about the agreement, that it knows all the background, as far as possible, that public debate is taking place and, if necessary, that we should go to a referendum and, if it is necessary, that the Constitutional Court should tell its own. If we agree that we do not have to go to the Constitutional Court, if we agree that we do not have to go to the referendum and that the National Assembly can ratify this agreement or not, then the Government would prefer to grant it because the neighbouring Republic of Croatia will do so. My colleague Jelinčič, I once again felt obliged to reject incorrect information, so the United States did not witness this agreement, and even if a country - say Ghana or Emirates - supported a unilateral statement, it had no legal effect, it was political support for a statement. It is not an integral part of the agreement that was signed in Stockholm. I think that's a crucial fact to know. The agreement contains clauses that are good for Slovenia, and I say - I have been your colleague here and perhaps again: in these years, when I sat in this Chamber, old and new, Slovenia and Croatia were unable to reach an agreement that was signed by both Heads of Government; but Slovenia has not been able to come as close to an agreement that would be as agreeable for it as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I'll say it again: I didn't say it - or I confirmed that the Americans were not witnesses to the signature. Of course, they were not there, but they will sign the document and this is extremely relevant in international law. The deal itself is a tragedy. This is the issue of Slovenian national interests and this is already happening. After all, the latest map of September 2009 shows how our authorities have already changed the route of this faraway section of Gabera - Hotiz. After a while, you quietly acknowledge the Croatian asset over certain positions of the Slovenian state. You once said that Slovenia and Croatia have never been at war, that these are two countries, two nations that love each other. Have you forgotten the Independent State of Croatia? Have you forgotten about the victims in Autumn? Have you forgotten the victims in the entire territory of this jungle area in the Gorjanci? Have you forgotten all kinds of slaughtered Slovenians and Slovenes? I don't know. I don't think you can forget that. There's another thing. You said, "we're going to put this act on the Constitutional Court." I would like to know how it is possible for a body issuing an act to judge this own act in the Constitutional Court if the case is constitutional. If I think so, it is not possible under our legislation, unless, in these two days or three days, there has been a change of law and we will act about the way we do here in these matters. The cut date is not 1991, the cut date is 1918. There were borders at the time, and later there were no intermediate borders, and this needs to be taken into account and known. But it is really necessary to have a little more knowledge, especially patriotism. That's what's missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Article 160 of the Constitution allows me to submit a contract to the Constitutional Court, which we shall accompany to the National Assembly by means of a law on its ratification. This wouldn't happen for the first time, and maybe it won't happen for the last time. I said, however, that it is not that I personally doubt the constitutionality of this document, nor do any of my colleagues and colleagues in the Government have any doubts, but we want to resolve any misunderstandings or additional questions that might arise in a possible debate, referendum or debate in the National Assembly. I also said that, as far as I am concerned, I do not want to propose responsibility for people to ratify this agreement, and I am responsible for taking over - and the Government as its proponent. So I hope there are no more doubts about this. I said that - how did you say you didn't say that the United States was a unilateral witness? You said what? To support this statement or what? As we say, let us be clear and loud: The Republic of Croatia, like the Republic of Slovenia, has the right to accept unilateral declarations in the ratification process. It's not a multilateral contract, it's a bilateral contract. It was signed and was not accompanied by any reservation from one party, which is normally the case with multilateral contracts. However, in the process of ratification, our National Assembly can also make a decision politically to adopt a unilateral declaration. Whether we give this, I'll say, an incentive from the government, we'll decide at the government's meeting tomorrow at five o'clock in the afternoon. So what counts is the text of this Agreement. 3.b Article lays down the task for the arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas. I think that other definitions in this agreement are such that they are of benefit to us. And, colleague Jelinčič, I think that we have - this is my opinion, of course, different from yours - an exceptional opportunity for us to resolve this issue in the interest of Slovenian national interests, to put it on the agenda, to focus on others, and also to address this issue, to open the windows of new opportunities offered by Slovenia as a member of the European Union, as a member of the European Union, as a member of the Schengen area and the only country already in the European Union from the former Yugoslavia and the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. In view of what the Prime Minister said in his two replies, let me explain why I will require the National Assembly to decide on the debate in accordance with Article 246. As it turns out, what Prime Minister Kosor says turns out to be true. What you say, Mr. Prime Minister, turns out not to be true. And tell Mr Squill to take the Constitutional Court Act into his hand and read article 23, and he will see that that institution, the body that writes the matter, cannot give its own thought to the Constitutional Court - Mr Squikel, can laugh, but read article 23 again. As for Croatia's entry into the European Union, let it enter, but don't sell the territory, don't give the country Slovenia to Croats. You won't get anything for that, Mr. Prime Minister, nothing! Slovenia will lose what your predecessors spent in the first place in 1945. And then, of course, Demos's 1991 government. But now there's something else to fix! It can be fixed and done in the interest of our own country! If any of your colleagues have a homeland in the Cayman Islands or Singapore or I don't know where, I only have it here and my children will live here. But I want to assure them that they will live in the most optimal environment, but not that Croats will then eventually arrive at Krske, in 6 months to Grosuplje, in 3 years to Ljubljana and in 10 years will be in Karavanka and will achieve what Franjo Tuđman said to Croatia that it will have a direct border with Austria. That's what I'm afraid of. Therefore, Prime Minister, step away from this signing of the agreement, step back, we are in no hurry, we are in no hurry! But if you can't do that, step down from the Prime Minister's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Andrej Vizjak, Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	The Honourable President of the Government. The climate change and the disastrous effects that these have on our planet have given birth to many binding initiatives and actions at both global and European level. The irresponsible awareness that we must act urgently, but also the binding European directives set clear targets and requirements for rapid and effective action before Slovenia. The national target for renewable energy sources for Slovenia is 25% by 2020. This requirement is ambitious and attainable only with the considerable and coordinated involvement of many government departments. By the middle of next year, we need to send a number of data to the European Commission, and the most important is the Action Plan on Renewable Resources. By the end of this year, however, data on: surpluses in the production of renewable resources, joint projects after 2020 and demand for renewable resources after 2020. It is not possible to come to that conclusion, and a national action plan for renewable energy needs to be put in place in practice. The strategic planning rules would first require the preparation of a strategic document, a national energy plan, and on the basis of the preparation of a national action plan for renewable energy. Only recently did the Government take certain measures in the direction, i.e. it formed a working group to draw up a national action plan. That's why I'm asking you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government: What has the Government done so far to meet the requirements of the Renewable Energy Directive? How far is the preparation of the National Energy Plan and the National Renewable Energy Action Plan? How is it that the Government plans a strategic document first, or first, an action and then a strategic document, respected by the President of the Government? First the action plan and then the strategy? But of course, it's not just about planning. Unnecessary and unreasonable delays and resulting damage also occur in the implementation of significant investments in renewable energy sources. I'm going to illustrate this in the case of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Savi. Since the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Government have not been able to finance the construction of water infrastructure by mid-year, a call for the construction of an accumulation pool at the Krško Hydropower plant has recently been cancelled. There is an unnecessary delay, with a production drop of about half a million euros per month for our energy. Who will be responsible for the damage? The planning of the Brežice and Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has also stopped because the State Department of Nature Protection wants to place this river in the bottom stream in Naturo 2000. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That would practically ruin the project. [[...]] So: What will you do to make this design and implementation continue? The budget documents also show new taxes on energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Now I don't know how people are going to decide in the next election, but if I run and if I'm back in the parliamentary benches and maybe in the opposition, I'm going to be a little more humiliated before the next government, because I'm going to realize that I didn't do everything I could or that I'm going to do something better. And you, as Minister of the Economy, could share this feeling with me even after one year. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	First of all, as regards delays in planning Slovenian energy policy. There's no way to get to the stalls. The national energy programme is created according to the timetable. This was annexed to the Green Paper and is now under public scrutiny. The draft national energy programme will - as announced at the time - be envisaged in April 2010 at public hearing. As far as investment in renewable energy is concerned, some of the following information you are asking about. The construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava is still within the framework of the deadlines, depending on the legal deadlines. Well, he's not late. By law, it is expected to end in 2015. So far, the complications suggest the possibility that this could happen some year later. The latest complication regarding the proposal to announce Sava's work for the Natura 2000 site is known and delays in the planning of the last two hydropower plants for a month to two. Even before that, a number of unforeseeable events had contributed to the delay. The Ministry of Economy, as the initiator of the State Spatial Plan, had previously referred to the delay in the previous years in ordering the professional basis for the spatial act, during the preparation of the spatial plan the legislation on the protection of cultural heritage had changed, the neighbouring Republic of Croatia had not provided the input data necessary for the preparation of the spatial plan, and coordination between the various investors in this area, which the project for the construction of hydroelectric matters, had been ineffective. Now let's see what our ministry has done this year. This year, he appointed the Inter-Resort Coordination Group. This coordination has already been envisaged but has not been established so far. The largest individual renewable power generation project, the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava, is actually four years behind schedule, because the Ministry of Economy did not provide an initiative in the past mandate to develop a State Spatial Plan for the chain of these hydropower plants. As a result, the Ministry of Environment and Space did not begin the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts and also the concessionary, that is Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, and therefore did not take any steps in the planning of this project. We have resolved this deficiency, but the four-year delay, of course, remains. Finally, I would like to say that I will attend the Copenhagen Summit, which I have also promised to the NGOs that visited me this morning, with the desire that Slovenia actively participate in the new climate policy. As you know, the National Assembly has already put a resolution on the active role of the Republic of Slovenia in climate change at this meeting. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, this government has set up a service for climate change. I just want to say that we are paying great attention to this area and that we will be very involved, but, of course, like all concerned about the future, you have been talking about the world for our children, we want consensus to come between the big players, this is between Europe, America, China and India. The question of whether this will succeed in Copenhagen or sooner or later is whether this desire to have a 20% lower release will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the establishment of commissions and groups will not solve your assigned tasks and will not, unfortunately, end your delays. And once again, I didn't get the answer: How do you plan to adopt the Action Plan on Renewable Energy in your strategic orientations adopted by the Government, first by adopting the Action Plan on Renewable Energy and then by means of a strategic document that should in fact form the basis for action and implementation plans? So, in conflict with strategic planning. I'm asking for an answer. The other thing is that delays have arisen and delays are caused by the lack of action or uncoordinated functioning of the coalition. By the way, it was late because it would have been up to 30. 6th this year, you had to make a financing plan for the construction of water infrastructure and you did not. That is why the call was cancelled and half a million euros of damage per month. And, Your Honor, instead of rushing ahead with this strategic and implementation planning in Slovenian energy and accelerating these investments, your officials are forecasting new taxes and taxes and contributions. Director of Mag's Directorate. The digger predicts the introduction of an effective energy contribution that would significantly undermine the fuel oil and other old energy sources. The price of fuel oil is supposed to be equal to the price of oil. The same official predicts an increase in the contribution to renewable resources, which will dramatically increase the rate. Budgets for 2010 and 2011 provide for a 5- to 6-fold increase in environmental charges with CO2 emissions. The implementation of these increases will therefore be subject to revision of the strategic and action documents. So, I'm asking the honourable President of you, because I asked you in the first question about taxes, and you didn't say anything to me: How much will the energy and basic living conditions in Slovenia be encouraged by these anticipated contributions? So if the price of fuel oil is going to be as high as the price of oil on petrol pumps, that means 30% to 40% increase.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Once we have had this discussion in the National Assembly, and if there is another one, we will explain a few things again. We will also call on the Strategic Energy Council, so that we will slowly take all the steps necessary to meet the high expectations we have in this area. The government has decided on these steps, which I have already mentioned, Mr Member, and will follow. The National Assembly shall, in accordance with its powers, decide or decide on them. That's the answer to your question. We will do as we believe is most appropriate in the current situation. Remember, there's a conference in Copenhagen in three weeks. Much depends on the Copenhagen decision, and then there is the Council of the European Union, which will determine the policy on this basis. Slovenia will have to adapt its energy policy by investing more in renewable energy sources than it will pay for vouchers resulting from poor energy policy for the sake of inadequate energy. What's the price? I can't answer that question. That is all I want to say in the end is that we are also planning a series of other investments in the production of electricity from renewable sources. At the beginning of this month, we have put in place an extremely stimulating subsidy scheme for renewable electricity producers and cogeneration of electricity and heat, from which we expect to encourage many new investments. Investments in a photovoltaic power plant are, for example, a real fashion hit in our country right now, and we expect a jumpy, more than 100% increase in this type of investment within this year. The new subsidy scheme replaces the previous scheme, which was established in 2002. During this period, national incentives to produce electricity from renewable sources increased from 403 million kilowatt hours in 2003 to 962 million kilowatt hours in 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Procedural or procedural, please. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, would have to hold a broader debate, as there were virtually no answers to some questions. In particular, new taxes, contributions and taxes on energy will be introduced before and before the entry into force of the strategic and implementing documents in Slovenia. Mag. Janez Kopač, director of the Energy Directorate, of course announced a series of contributions. Contribution to the efficient use of energy to tax so-called old energy products, including fuel oil. This will affect the lives of all people in the Republic of Slovenia who, of course, use this energy, including pensioners, who will be deprived of the coordination of pensions following a new proposal from this government; also those who are socially disadvantaged who will not be coordinated more than they have been before. So, on the one hand, the purchasing power is declining and on the other hand, people with new taxes are being burdened before the measures are known. That's one thing. The other thing is very important. The budgets, respected by the President of the Government, provide for an increase of the environmental burden of CO2 emissions by five to six times for 2010 and 2011. I ask you, and this is a rhetorical question, and this debate will show the answers to what services and what goods will be offered to all people in Slovenia on the basis of these new duties and the increase in these duties. Dear President of Parliament, I wanted these answers, not one of which I received at the time, although the President of the Government has more at his disposal than I do. I therefore propose a broader debate on this. And one more thing, there are actually investments that should be most encouraged. You say the Renaissance is an investment in photovoltaic power plants. Every photovoltaic power plant is paid by people from the checkers for contributions. Even this renaissance will increase the power grids for all people. Once again, on the one hand, new taxes, on the other hand, on the other hand, reduce the coordination of these "falcons", which many on the verge of surviving from the country receive, not just the state, but also the money earned in the area of pensions. President, I think it is necessary to have a broader debate on this. This debate will show whether you have arguments in some strategic directions. Ladies and gentlemen, a Copenhagen conference will do nothing to help our taxpayers, nor will it help to forecast all these taxes that you have already made. Therefore, I really expect you to have a little bit more understanding of the situation in which many have come to be, and do not predict new taxes in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 November 2009, in the context of the parliamentary vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by Franco Juri, Zares. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Minister, Honourable Ministers and Colleagues. I ask you, President: What are the orientations of the new foreign policy strategy to be followed by the Government? In the Group of Members, we really believe that the period of major topics such as the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the international organisation and thus the implementation in the international space is largely over. We are also convinced, unlike others, that, at last - perhaps, we hope - a long period of controversy and conflict with our neighbor is ending. Now we need more operational diplomacy, which will be able to solve our real and more local problems in the face of global problems. The key theme of our foreign policy today, according to our parliamentary group, must have been our economy, which is very dependent on foreign markets, as we export over 70% of economic production. The economic crisis has affected Slovenia's main markets very much. The economic crisis also forces them to enter new foreign markets and would therefore require assistance from the state and diplomacy, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Economy, as well as appropriate accompanying financial and insurance services. Therefore, in view of the above, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, I ask you: How does the State intend to help the Slovenian economy enter the new markets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. Since the beginning of the mandate, the Slovenian Government has been paying a great deal of attention to the reorganisation of its foreign policy and foreign trade work, both institutionally and in practical terms. Institutionally, we have set up a new Directorate for Economic Diplomacy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As you will see, we foresee significant changes in the Law on External Affairs regarding the competence and importance of economic diplomacy. Here the Ministry of Economy has a special role and importance, both directly and through JAPTI and so on and so on. And then, of course, there are pragmatic measures and actions by the government. We are doing our best to ensure that Slovenia's dependence, this is a two-thirds export to the markets of the European Union, is somewhat dispersed, that, in the event of possible crises, whether national economies or the global economy as we have seen it now, the Slovenian economy would not suffer as it suffered this year, we are trying to reach new markets, we are trying to strengthen the role of the Slovenian economy in markets where we are already present, we are setting up so-called business clubs, we are setting up a 'business office' - that is, something that will not cost any diplomacy that we do not need in the traditional sense, but we need to help the Slovenian economy directly in those markets. I think we have taken a big step forward here so that we can be proud of what has been done. The fact is that Slovenians, as a small and open economy, will be strong and sovereign not only in the political but also in the economic sense, if: for the first time, we disperse our investments around the world, and for the second time if we know how to disperse foreign investments with us. There's gotta be more to each other than there is now. The Slovenian State is fully subordinated to this great objective. As you mentioned, the solution to the problems with Croatia would make us in this area of South-East Europe something special and would give us the opportunity to take advantage of the space of the Western Balkans in political terms, in particular in the economic sense, as our priority area of influence. That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Franco? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you for that answer, Mr President. I'm mostly satisfied, but I'm missing some concrete information. After all, you were recently in Libya, the president of the country was in Kazakhstan. We estimate that both visits looked like some good practice, even though there have been some aspects of non-compliance, particularly in time. But no matter what, it's probably the kind of practice that has to be systematized, channeled to the work of the external source. We're in Croatia right now. It must be noted that we have been losing opportunities for at least 18 years; that we are losing the market, which is naturally one of the most important parts of the Western Balkan market in Slovenia, and we hope that we will finally live differently once that dispute is resolved, and that our companies, at the moment when they still need new markets and new investment opportunities, will also be able to penetrate the neighbouring country. We are well aware of the situation there, especially those coming from the border area, waiting for such an opportunity where government diplomacy and our foreign policy will finally focus on paved the way for businesses waiting for a moment to make up for lost opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Look, I think all the governments so far have done their best to support Slovenian economic interests abroad, either state or private. The problem that we now have is that we are in the midst of a crisis, that we have shown the weaknesses of our openness and also the limitations on part of the European Union, and that we are now inevitably ahead of the task of doing everything that is best - and that also by the example of some other countries and these examples we are trying to stick to - to, as we say, increase the volume of Slovenian investments abroad, to increase the volume of foreign investment in us, to disperse them, and that somehow, I will say, to solve the problem of new dependence in the event of new crises of national economies or globally. I would like to say that in the last 14 days, the President and I have tried to reconcile the deadline for our visits abroad also because of the interest of the business community, which wanted to go on both business routes. Libya is a special country. Libya has given Slovenia the opportunity to postpone its visit, but in this case, Mr Member, they would postpone this visit for an indefinite period of time. Three heads of government or state were ahead of me last week, and three heads of government in Libya are scheduled for my visit by the end of this week. Libya simply has a lot of money to invest in infrastructure and wants to invest in it abroad. We - without this being part of the agreement, let's say, if I mention this case now - as just one piece of information, in the Libyan authorities we met with a minister who is "sitting" on a cash register worth 46 billion euros. His job is to spend this money; we said we were ready to help. I mean, our businessmen were there and, as far as I could talk to them on the plane and later, they expressed great satisfaction over the visit. Such visits, which would bring concrete results, I hope that there will be more and that the National Assembly will have an understanding of them. As far as possible, I too will personally participate in this because I feel that this is now one of our key tasks. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the questions raised at the 6th, 8th, 9th and 10th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, is absent and will answer the questions of Members Milenko Ziherl and Mira Petka at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal will answer the question of mag. Joyful Žerjeva regarding "Slean loans from Austrian banks". The Minister has one more minute and 30 seconds to respond. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. Dear Member. As Mr Zalar has already replied to you at the last meeting of the National Assembly, I, too, can tell you on the basis of the information I received from the police, that the information collected so far has not confirmed the existence of a criminal offence. The Criminal Police continue to carry out their work intensively in cooperation with the State Prosecutor's Office, the Customs or Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Austrian security authorities. I am sure that they will do their work thoroughly and well. And that is all I can tell you as Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobič will answer Ivan Grill's question regarding the participation of the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town with Infotechna. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Grill. The question you've been addressing to me has been on a number of phone calls lately. If you allow me, I would briefly take up the content of the reasons why the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry or the competent directorate, decided not to temporarily grant consent to the establishment of a joint institution in the form of an economic company, a limited liability company between Infotechna and the Faculty of Information Studies. As you know, you are very well, as well as many of your fellow Members and Members, this faculty was established in 2008 by a decree of the National Assembly and began to function as a separate higher education institution in autumn 2008, when part of the study programme carried out so far by the Faculty of Applied and Social Studies in Nova Gorica was taken over. This means that at the beginning of its higher education path, which is not easy, is difficult, especially since it has been shown that the labour market increasingly distinguishes the quality of the education, competence and therefore the employment opportunities of graduates. The opinion of the Ministry is that in the first years following the start of a new higher education institution, such as this university, all resources, organisational, human and material resources, should be directed towards the construction of this institution, to the improvement, to the strengthening, to the strengthening, to the completion of all aspects of the higher education curriculum, and that it is only appropriate to follow this step through the establishment of a possible such institution, i.e. a limitedly responsible company with a private company. This means that it is only this aspect, namely the establishment of such an economic society, which is not the only option for a university to find a higher education institution together with an economy in common content. Scientific and research work may be carried out by any higher education institution without difficulty within the framework of the existing legal entity and organisational structure. The Higher Education Act, in addition to the public service, allows such activities to be carried out in cooperation with individual companies, in the form of individual contracts, specific contracts and the like. In short, these were reasons, concern for the quality of the study, for the growth and validation of this institution, as important institutions that enrich the Slovenian higher education space, that we said that the first generation in the New City of enrolled students should finish their studies, then, of course, when the university was able to pass through this path, but without difficulty within existing possibilities, the scientific and research work combines with other companies from local space and beyond, this is finally proven by many other universities and higher education institutions throughout Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I must say, Mr Minister, that you have not convinced me with this answer, but I believe even more that neither students nor economies in Dolenjska or New Town. Waiting for the first generation of students to finish their studies is certainly not the reason why this will somehow show whether this school is quality or not. So far, as well as professors who have international experience, there is evidence that this university is on track. In 2008/2009 122 students were enrolled; in this academic year 195, more than a third were enrolled in Master's degree. It means that interest is very, very great. And this is not about the establishment of an institute that would actually start plowing the ice, it is about cooperation with an internationally established company that, in its 20-year work, has proved that it is able to provide information solutions to many multinationals in the field of pharmaceuticals and banking in Slovenia, Krk, Lek, Elektro, Telekom, also for the Ministry of Defence, a whole set of those users of services providing a reference. And now I really want to know what can be more beneficial for students or what can contribute more to the quality of their study than actually being able to work with such a recognised company with their research work. Such a reason certainly cannot convince me or anyone else, especially since there was no issue of financial resources. 10,000 euros, to the extent that the co-foundership could be part of the university, was obtained through donation. And no matter what, this institute will be established without a co-founder of the university, which I think is a very, very bad message for the environment of the New City, Dolenjska, especially for students and not least for the economy. So I think the reasons are somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you. You want an answer? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	I'm afraid there's no other reason. It may also be possible to consider that such an institution, a private company d.o.o., would have an interest in student work, which would be carried out within such an undertaking within the framework of research tasks and otherwise paid as a second job. Perhaps the management of the faculty would have an interest in earning income through work in such a d.o.o. We know that the leadership of this university is extremely entrepreneurially engaged in many other companies. In short, I wouldn't open these questions and speculations. All I am saying is that, in order to cooperate with this quality company from New City, which I myself know, and there are no obstacles during college, there is no need to establish a company with limited responsibility, which has the name of an institution, this is proved by a number of Slovenian companies, including a number of bottom-up companies, this is proved by a range of higher education institutions, including colleges, so they do not need this form. And the fact that there's some college on the way, I'm glad I'm joining it myself. However, it is an important objective on this path and this objective will be proven only when they are given the first diplomat's job. Let us, until then, take care of this basic mission of the faculty, but not of any other person's gainful activity, act in accordance with the law and make moves that make sense, otherwise the law would not have foreseen this possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. On the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the State assembly hold a debate on the answer to this question. Because I am sure that such a discussion would be very useful not only for the development of the higher education of the New City, Dolenjska or this part of Slovenia, but not for the whole of Slovenia. Such an attitude or way I don't think it contributes in general to the development of this. I don't think referring to any status form of this institute is an argument. If the Ministry or you, Mr Minister, were willing to provide some other status here for this institute, it would be possible to provide a different form of dialogue. I am sure that there is an economic or commercial interest in this business. As I mentioned, such an institution will be established without such an important message for this part of Slovenia or New Town, Dolenjska, that the country renounces the possibility of cooperation with such an important institution or company, which can contribute mainly to the quality of the study development of this university, students where students will be able to explore the most applied research areas. For this will not be a study of some imaginary matters which may or may not have any useful value after the study has been completed or after the research has been completed. I am convinced that these products can be directly used in the economy, which Slovenia must aspire to. We are known to have a very low percentage of those scientific achievements of development that have an application value. I am therefore convinced that, for all of Slovenia, with such a debate, we can contribute to the fact that such practice or the position of the Government will no longer be repeated. I must say that this institution will exist here and also the university, which is the ultimate goal of this, will be many who say, if not sooner than three years later, because nothing can stop us on the road to an important goal, because this has driven development for the lower economy, which is already at the very top of Slovenia, and thus we can contribute even more to the development of the lower economy. I hope that the coalition will support us here to vote on this debate, which will benefit all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec will answer Mrs Brede Pecan's question regarding the Rules on the Management of Multi-Apartment Buildings.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Dear President, nice to meet you. Nice greetings also to the Members and Members of Parliament. I thank you for the question raised concerning the Regulation on the Management of Multi-Apartment Buildings, which concerns the division of operating costs. The Member of Parliament believes that the Rules of Procedure introduce an unfair way. I must say that it is not entirely fair to say something about a just solution that cannot be ensured. The initiative to adopt the Multi-Inhabited Buildings Management Regulation was given by users and by managers who felt that the existing surface-based system was not fair at the co-owner’s share. Therefore, when adopting amendments and supplementing the Housing Law in 2008, and on the basis of comments and initiatives from a broad public debate, we decided to arrange for the sharing of operating costs in multi-housing buildings. A decision has been made to regulate this by means of a sub-legislative act, that is to say with the Rules on the Management of Multi-Housing Buildings. Why did they feel that the existing way was not righteous? For example, if four single-bedroom users paid for the costs of the water consumed, the removal of waste, the cleaning of shared premises, they paid much less than the person who owned the apartment, for example, in the same three-bedroom building. Therefore, the view was that this was not fair because the key had to be placed in such a way that those who were actually using water would consume electricity in common spaces and so on. On the basis of this public debate, we have drawn up a regulation and the regulation sets out the key to cost-sharing on the basis of the following criteria: number of persons, number of individual parts and area. And in those multi-housing buildings where we don't have weekenders or so-called secondary dwellings, this key to sharing is certainly fair, because it's a real consumption, that's what we call specific operating costs. In particular, I would like to point out that management costs are not covered here because these costs are calculated according to the co-ownership share and according to the area occupied by someone. It is exclusively for costs related to cleaning common spaces, transporting garbage and where there are no counters, water meters, then this key applies. I must say that the law in the past has allowed residents to agree on a mutual agreement on how to share these costs. In practice, however, this consensus could not be reached because a 100% consensus was needed. Now the law travels over 50% of the consent. As I said, I agree that probably for secondary dwellings where individuals are not always present, that perhaps the arrangements are not the most just, but I do not see what solution could be even more just. It is a problem that those who have secondary dwellings do not benefit most of the years, that is to say they do not cause municipal waste, they do not pollute common spaces, etc. And from this key came a solution, based on public debate and professional debate, provided by the Multi-Inhabitation Buildings Management Regulation. But no matter what, I'm feeling some injustice. But here those who aren't are the weekenders who are in these secondary apartments to not contribute, because this would give a very extreme example. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There'll be an opportunity if there's a complementary request. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, everyone, especially Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. What you have begun to answer, I think it is particularly important to stress. The fact is that not only this extreme case, such cases are large, I must also say that in the public hearing you were talking about, the association of multi-housing building managers has pointed out this problem, because this is not just the case in Isola, such cases are the whole species where there are tourist areas where there are systematic construction of multi-housing buildings mainly because of the wishes of people who want to have weekend apartments in tourist areas, that there is a building where there are 30, 25, 18, but depending on how many apartments there are, there are only one, two, three permanent residents. And according to this logic, as the Regulation states, if the owner of a secondary apartment stays in an apartment for less than six days, he does not have to pay any common costs, i.e. the cost of common appliances, electricity, water, we know what leaking water in an individual apartment means, to reflect this only on the common counter, whereas the counter in the apartment does not show consumption and a variety of other such problems. Two old ladies in Isola, specifically in a multi-housing building with approximately 285 apartments, will be at the expense of 26 owners of secondary apartments being in these apartments for about 6 days a month, which means that it will be as if a few owners were inside for a month, and they will pay all the costs, two women, for everyone else. I want to know: Do you really think that's fair?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Already in the introduction, I said that some absolute justice could not be achieved here, because if it could be achieved, it would probably have been given in public treatment and when this rule was prepared, such a solution would probably have been given. However, given your initiative to re-examine this case, I must say that I have information from the Ministry of the Environment and Space, that managers have otherwise highlighted this problem, in this direction as we have solved it, and you point out that they have warned about these secondary apartments and that there may be a problem here. I'll just check it out because I have different information, but regardless, I assure you that this part of the rulebook will be re-examined, examined if it is possible to find someone perhaps a more just solution. What is more I can not provide for you at this time, but this was the case - there were then opinions that water should be paid according to the specific consumption of water, for example, if there are no measurements, in relation to specific municipal waste produced. Now we see another extreme that you have mentioned in a very good case, that it can happen if a multi-housing building is in the event that most of the owners of secondary apartments, that the individual owner of such an apartment, who lives permanently in such a facility, may have excessive expenses on this account. We will reexamine this matter and try to find an appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec will also answer the question of Happy Friends regarding the supervision of companies involved in collecting and processing hazardous construction waste. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you for asking. Let me say that the environmental inspector runs three proceedings against that company in 2009 due to ground excavations on agricultural land at two locations: the Piševec Valley and the Drnica Valley site at the Bandelj settlement. I must say that in addition to the inspection procedure, there is also a criminal procedure and also a fine imposed. However, waste management on agricultural land is incorrect and the environmental inspection has also informed the agricultural inspection, which also has certain powers. With regard to the intervention in the Drnice Valley area at the Bandelj village, which also concerns your question, let me say that the inspector, as soon as he received his application in July, introduced the procedure and in the procedure it was established that Finali Trading had obtained an environmental permit for the introduction of the ground dig, but that it did not comply with the authorisation. Therefore, the environmental inspector proposed to the environmental agency the withdrawal of the permit and issued a decision prohibiting the further introduction of the ground dig, which according to my information is also respected by the debtor. However, I must say that due to the reasonable suspicion of the service, an appropriate infringement has also been instituted. Otherwise, in connection with the introduction of ground excavations in the same area against this company, an inspection procedure was introduced in 2005 as well. Some irregularities have been identified, and I must say that a warning has also been issued in the criminal proceedings at that time. Given the suspicion of the suitability of the waste, this is an earthly excavation, a decision was also issued in July 2005 to prove with an expert, this was the Maribor Health Services Department, and it was found that the ground dig was appropriate. It wasn't about some land that wasn't supposed to be brought in there. So the inspector didn't realize at the time that they would be, I don't know what asbestos waste they were implying. With regard to interventions in this wider area, this is in the Pisevac Valley area, and this year two other inspection procedures were conducted against the same company, again due to the introduction of land without an environmental protection permit in the lower area and due to the introduction of ground excavations without an environmental protection permit in the upper area. In both cases, a decision has been taken to prohibit the further introduction of earth’s excavation. A certain commitment respects. In the first case, the company was listed and the responsible person was also ingrained; in the second case, the criminal procedure is still ongoing. I must say again that we have also notified the agricultural inspection because it relates to agricultural land. However, I can also say that the interventions in question are obviously also being dealt with by the District Attorney's Office in Cyprus and the Police Administration of Koper, as we have provided both the requested data as an inspection.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've given me a complete answer. I am pleased in some way with your answers, but let me remind you, in 2005 we sent you to the government, of course you were at the Ministry of Defence, the first question. We didn't get an answer until May 23rd, when we called it "urg." At that time, the Environment and Space Agency sent out an answer that points to these claims, which you have just said. It is true that they have taken samples, but sir, as the director of this company Finali Trading said, has allowed himself to dig deeper than the permit, of course, and these wastes have not been found by the agency at the depth where they were taking samples. We later re-added the written question, ordered a study at the material research institute itself, talking about the risk of drinking resources in this area. Later in August of the same year, we also tabled a proposal for a forecasting procedure. What you listed today is a set of irregularities, but I don't see any sanctions. More Gazelo Primorska, Notranj region for the success of the company you have given to this company. It also receives grants and repayments, favourable loans and is the best economic operator of Primorska. The damage caused in this area is irreparable and in essence also threatens the capture of drinking resources nearby. I am interested in sanctions, and I am also interested in responsible persons in the Ministry who continue to work and have been informed of irregularities since 2005. I want to know who's going to repair this damage, which even with a ten-year intervention into space to perfection will not be remedied. And one more thing, Mr. Secretary, is that I believe in your consistency, and I am interested in: When are we going to stop this gentleman from doing what he's doing? Indeed, the work in this company is proceeding smoothly, despite the fact that decisions are being issued. Thank you for the additional answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you for complementing the question. I must say, in my initial reply, I have told you how the procedures are running, what decisions have been made. It seems to me that the inspection took a proper approach in 2009. I also said that the case was the subject of a hearing, obviously also in the District Attorney's Office, before the police administration, so that, whatever happened in 2005, despite the fact that I was then Minister of Defence, I find it difficult to comment. It's important to me that the inspection works now, and I'm responsible for it. You saw that in July 2009 the application was made, there was a series of procedures, decisions were issued, so I am trying to make sure that the inspection is carried out. The question is, however, whether it is a matter that is solely under the jurisdiction of inspections. As I said, this is clearly also the case with the State Prosecutor's Office, including the police, and this is the subject of other procedures, which, of course, as Minister of Environment and Space, I am not competent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that, if I may say so, the Minister is acting. But, Madam Minister, we have warned of these mistakes in 2005, we are now in 2009 and construction works continue to be carried out, which are legally unacceptable. The catastrophic ecological damage caused in this area is in fact also estimated at the scale of the 10-year recovery, and drinking resources in this area are at risk. And because I don't have an assessment of the damage because we don't even have stopped work because we don't even have a legal ban on further work and because of course we don't have the actual actions of the law enforcement authority, it's the police, and because the director is not prevented from doing illegal work, which, of course, the law should monitor the legality of business in his company, even more so, he is given state grants and rewards. Of course, because of this and the warning given to the coastal public, I will require a broader debate in this Chamber on this issue; I want to know the damage assessment; I also want to know the rehabilitation programme; I want to tell the entire coastal public how we will protect the drinking resources that are in this area and more; and I want to know how the responsible ones who have served at the Ministry of the Environment at that time and today will respond to the law. You know, in the direct production of workers, if they commit and cause material damage, they have to answer criminally, lose their right to work as they say. And, of course, he's put on the road and in court. This is where we informed everyone, the inspectors, the competent authorities, the agencies, nothing happened. Today you mentioned a number of measures, but after the bay ring it is of course too late. We have an polluted environment there, which we will not be able to repair even through decades of intensive repairs in this area. And what's more, Director Emil Gignon admits on TV Tednik that he's allowed a deeper dig. In this area it is not only Slovenian waste, it also deals with construction in Italy and with demolition works. So we can expect that these building wastes are also in Slovenia and have the only permit for asbestos waste, but asbestos is nowhere in its yard. So, where are these asbestos wastes? Whether we will be able to make deeper analyses into this earth once or only to surface-view this area, called the demountable field. Moreover, the state paid for this with some pretense of melioration and pushed a million euros into this gentleman's pocket. That's outrageous. There is a criminal society here that can also be chaired by one of the police officers, possibly the judiciary or just by your ministry. We're gonna have to investigate this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Srečk Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. Justice Minister Aleš Zalar will answer Janez Ribič's question on citizens' questions about the criminal trial. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! With regard to the question raised as to whether the Ministry answers the questions raised in public on judicial proceedings, let me first say that the Ministry receives a wide variety of questions and initiatives from citizens, in very different forms, in content, sometimes in anonymous roles. These applications are sent by citizens by mail, by electronic means, usually for very different addressees and we always respond to them. When assessing the content and after consulting experts at the Ministry, we decide on each matter separately what and how to respond to a particular matter and what to do. However, something else is in the media, which we believe is not always the most appropriate way to respond to our response. Many times, we estimate that it is more important and effective if we deal directly with an initiative and take appropriate action, not just by texting through the media. Here we come up with a specific case, which is also raised in the question of the Member State and relates to the case of Mr Evgen Bavčar. With regard to this matter and the publication of the article by academics Solomon, in the evening officer, on 20 August 2009, let me explain that I am aware of this issue as Minister. On this matter, the Ministry shall keep an appropriate case, the relevant file. The Ministry has kept Mr Bavčar informed about the measures taken in his case. When we examined all the files, we found that the roles of this client were back in the long run in 2003. At that time, the Minister of Justice at the District Court in Ljubljana asked for information on whether Mr Bavčar's blindness as a defendant was taken into account in the proceedings before the court. It is also clear that further communication with the Court over the coming years is apparent, and I quote from these replies that the Court has always been aware of the problems of the service of writing to blind persons. For example, when the issue of covering the costs of the rule of law was raised in 2007, the court decided that the costs of the case were to go from the Court's budget. For example, in 2007, the former Minister asked the Supreme Court to find appropriate technical solutions allowing blind persons to receive copies of documents from the trial files in Braille and to propose to him the purchase of a Braille printer, which would be available to all Slovenian courts through the establishment of a network connection. I also estimate that the proper action of the Ministry has undoubtedly contributed to the fact that Mr Bavcar's lawsuit in Braille was served in 2007. So, even before the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia regarding this requirement, as is the case with our data. With regard to the article itself in the evening of 20. 8. However, since May 2009 our Ministry, by the President of the District Court in Ljubljana, has received an explanation that the file in this case has been registered in the Supreme Court of Ljubljana since May, and we have also received confirmation that the court has copied all the legal documents in Braille since 2 July 2007 and that the President of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana considers that the claims set out in this article, which was published in Evening, are not justified. In view of the fact that we have assessed that the findings of the public question are not sustained, we have assessed that it is appropriate for the Ministry not to argue through the media on this issue that this would not be the case. However, I would point out once again that we have verified all this information and would, if the findings were justified, have taken the appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Good afternoon and good evening, distinguished present. First of all, Mr Minister, I thank you for some of the answers that I have asked, and I am pleased with them. But I'm not happy with that part. We all know that the judiciary must be independent. If existing legislation is found to be inappropriate, it is necessary to amend it or to supplement it with a law that will make it impossible to try falsely on purpose without consequences for judges. The law is so inanimate that it does not protect, but gives the criminal more rights. With the example of the book Where Are You Going Europe? You're familiar with Anne Sam. Anya was invited to the interview the day after I asked you the question of the mission, and before that there was no response. The article on the Remembrance of Hribar in Finance on 26 October entitled Stop the Remembrance, the loss of credibility of Slovenian courts, being in our own country, tells us much about the need for several activities and legislation in this area that will protect all citizens so that we do not feel that we are alone in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I understand that no further question has been raised. Is there anything else you'd like to answer, Mr. Secretary? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you. I would then like, Mr President of the National Assembly, to hold a public debate in the National Assembly under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in: Does your ministry keep any record of the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Justice of the found misdemeanours caused by the criminal convictions of the courts? Or else, I'm asking: Does your ministry keep a record of the judgments of the Constitutional and European Court, by which the judgments of our courts have been annulled? How many such judgments are there?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Comrade Rybič, just to warn you, just a reason for your consideration. The Minister can no longer answer, which is important. The Minister can't answer any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	That is why I suggested that we discuss this here in the National Assembly. Also on the consequences of the judges involved in such convictions, which are subsequently abolished by the Constitutional Court or the European Court. It may also be about how the State treats those for whom the Constitutional or European Court has found that they have been wrongly convicted and so on. That is why I would like the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Janez Ribič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 November 2009, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Health a question. The minister's gone. Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the Minister of Health, he has the following question. Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia abroad who have a foreign insurance scheme are taken unconsciously to a private hospital because of a heart attack because the public hospital was fully occupied. A person who was unconscious at a given time could not and could not decide where to take the ambulance. Now the same person, even though he had a foreign insurance policy, should have taken the ambulance to a private hospital, cover all expenses. I ask the Minister of Health: Are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia entitled to reimbursement of treatment costs regardless of the type of treatment facility abroad and irrespective of the psychophysical state of the person at a given time? This is the case with Slovenia in Spain, which has had no impact on the course of events due to a heart attack. However, in the course of the payment of the account, the ZZZS avoided and refused to pay on the grounds that it was supposed to be a special case because it was Spain, if it were elsewhere, it would have all been settled. In accordance with Article 22 of Regulation 1408/71, a person who is medically insured in one Member State may receive medical services at the expense of that Member State in another Member State in which he is temporarily resident when he needs the treatment necessary for medical reasons during his stay. So here is the word "medical treatment needed" as a treatment received by a person temporarily residing in another Member State, so that the insured person should not be returned to the competent country before the end of the planned stay, i.e. for unplanned treatment during temporary stay in another Member State. The European Health Insurance Card provides justification for this treatment. The holder of the European Health Insurance Card shall be treated in the Member State of temporary residence in accordance with the provisions of the law of the Member State of temporary residence as being insured in accordance with its legislation. According to the Article and Regulation cited above, Slovenians are entitled to the same treatment as Spanish citizens covered by the Spanish health insurance system, who are entitled to a claim for reimbursement of the costs of their stay at a private clinic. So, how about in this case? I'd like an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dr Luka Juri will ask the question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which is also absent. Please, Dr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In recent weeks we have heard several questions and doubts in connection with the arbitration agreement signed in Stockholm on 4 November this year between the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, we have heard quite a few doubts by a certain public and policy, which, years ago, supported a different agreement, which was agreed otherwise not signed, in Bled in 2007 between the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Sanader and the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janš. I therefore want some answers from the Minister on the essential differences between one agreement and another. I want to know: What are those fundamental points where the agreements are different, why are they different and what do they set out with regard to certain fundamental interests of the Republic of Slovenia? I want to know: What was the agreement reached at Bled regarding the decision of the International Interstate Court in The Hague on the direct contact of Slovenia with the high seas and what does the arbitration agreement provide for in this regard? I also want to know: What did the agreement reached at Bled provide for respect for the principle of justice, and what does the signed arbitration agreement provide for the principle of fairness? Besides, I'm wondering: How long would the trial at the Interstate Court of The Hague take, and how long is it expected to last in the arbitration court? I ask the Minister to state the fundamental, fundamental differences between the two agreements, so that we can understand better than the policy and the public where the key point is, in fact, where those who have supported the agreement or agreement reached in Bled are now opposed to the arbitration agreement. At least my opinion is, when I hear new facts, I will be able to have a clearer picture that the arbitration agreement is significantly better and more suitable for Slovenian interests than the agreement reached at Bled. Then the following question comes to me, which I doubt the Minister will be able to answer: How is it that those who supported the Bled Agreement now oppose the arbitration agreement? Since the Minister is not here, please, if he can answer me orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few months, we have witnessed massive lawsuits against the State of the Republic of Slovenia. The actions are brought by judicial officials, judges, prosecutors, lawyers. There was also news today that the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court has no intention of withdrawing from any such action and is a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. If my memory does not deceive me, it is a matter of 10 years and several years ago when the commission in this National Assembly, staff or what it was then called, reduced the salaries of Members, which should also automatically apply to the judiciary and have been reduced in the judiciary. So as for the other officials, ministers, secretary of state, then, I will say, or Members. My question relates to this, to these lawsuits, so I announced it. I want to know: Do I have the right information on this legal basis for this kind of work? Of course, this also raises many questions in public about who will judge. And if today's news is that a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court is suing himself, then the question arises who in this country will even be suing in these cases. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that we are talking about the amount of €70 million or more that was not planned by the coalition majority in the state budget. At least I didn't see it coming. In this regard, I should like to ask you in more detail, in the context of the question raised, the following: Is it true that this is the legal basis of the commission that he led at the time, I believe, your client colleague Anderlich? The second question in this regard, of course, is: Are judicial officials, prosecutors, judges, lawyers public officials? I believe that if citizens have the right to know everything about us Members and we tell them everything and, of course, it is also right to tell them everything, I wonder why they should not inform the Slovenian public and publish on your website a list of judges, prosecutors, lawyers who are suing this country. Or maybe it's already been done. In short, in a situation where the state has no money for, I will say, many other more important projects, and in a situation where we have blessed the judges, of course, of the Constitutional Court, raised the judges' salaries by 28%, I really expect these people to withdraw or I am interested in: What's the status at this point? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The problem that exists really has a long beard, and it's really coming from the 1990s. The alleged legal basis in the actions which is supposed to be inadequate and which is why these actions are to be substantiated, according to the Government, is not disputed. This is also the reason why the State opposes these claims in court proceedings. This is also the reason why the State defence has requested the approval of the audit against the second stage judgment and has succeeded in doing so. The Supreme Court has granted the audit. In accordance with the law, the State Attorney's Office then submitted its arguments for this review and, since it is an unusual situation that judges, prosecutors and lawyers are involved in these actions, the Ministry of Justice has obtained the legal opinion of a respected legal expert and former Justice Minister, Dr Rajko Pirnat, and the argument in his opinion supporting the Government's or the State's position that these actions are not justified have been included in this audit. This is also why the Government did not plan any budgetary resources to pay these claimed underpaid salaries because it considers that these are unfounded claims. This could, in fact, be a dangerous conclusion action if the Government had acted differently. As a result, this issue is now fully open and, on the basis of the model case, it will be known what will be the outcome of all these proceedings when the Supreme Court takes its decision, a substantive decision on this audit. The question whether an individual is suing or not is, of course, a question of professional ethics first. However, it is not possible not to go backwards, but to deny anyone the right to file an action if he considers that this is the appropriate way to safeguard his own property interest. The senior judicial officials in this country wanted to set an example and whether the actions had not been brought at all, such as the President of the Supreme Court or the Attorney-General or had withdrawn the action, as the Attorney-General of Brezigareva did. Let me conclude with the fact that I myself have been a judge for 18 years and, theoretically, I could be one of those who would have decided on a similar procedure, but of course, I don't think it's appropriate for me to do something like this. If I guarantee the sovereignty of this country as an official of this country, then of course I cannot become a prosecutor against this same country as I represent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to complete your answer, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I beg you to answer that written part I gave you in numbers. And at the same time, let me say, let me read some very critical text. Look. Now that the prosecutors have joined them, that is to say, the other defendants in this country who are suing the state and the lawyers who are suing for alleged deprivation of salaries over a multi-year period. As if it were a national sport, as if the state were not in recession, as if taxpayers would continue to capitalise on the state budget, without wondering how their money would be spent and, above all, as if judges, prosecutors and lawyers had nothing in common with that country, except perhaps a permanent mandate. I skip part of the critical text and continue towards the end, because I simply cannot read all the text, although I would like to. You do not find it disputed that the judge of the court who judges the dispute is suing before the same court a country represented in this dispute by a state defender and that lawyer has the same or the same interest in the outcome of the dispute as the plaintiff, because it is only in justice that the action is brought on behalf of the State of Resistance, because it is supported in an intimate manner. Is it not grotesque that this apparent dispute will be decided by a judge or a Senate of judges having the same personal interest and so on? Mr. Secretary, this is your text, I believe you recognize it. That's what you wrote down. I strongly agree with this that this is the case, I support this kind of effort of yours. I'd like to have a little more accurate numbers, even if you're invited. By the way, you made the call, Your Honors, step away. I have also heard Mr Potsch several times, and I also support him when he said to drop these charges. Please, a slightly more accurate answer in numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I have called for the withdrawal of the charges or for the action not to be brought unless they have been filed, but I have only called for three. I called the Attorney General, the Advocate General and the President of the Supreme Court. The result is nothing. Well, none of them have a lawsuit today. The call was successful, although I do not have any merit here, because I believe it was their free choice, regardless of the fact that some have done so after this call. On the other hand, I have only pointed out that every judicial official, I now quote, "by virtue of the function he performs, can consider the appropriateness of filing such a complaint." So this is the idea of what is possible, and it is linked to the fact that the highest officials in the judiciary should set an example, because I strongly agree with what Confucius has already said, that the fundamental task of authority is to set an example. Once again, I stress that the decision on whether or not an individual does so is the constitutional right of everyone and cannot be denied to anyone and that it is also impossible to make lists from this title, of course, that data are provided on who is suing, where he is suing, why he is suing, in one way or another, because they are accessible under the rules of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Please proceed with procedure, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	For the third time, I have not heard any figures, although, Mr President, I explicitly asked them in the written part of my parliamentary question and did not disseminate it. Nevertheless, I will not protest this response. I propose and I ask that we discuss this in the National Assembly. I'm aware we can't order any judge to "remove." I'm very aware of that. I am aware that this is their right, but at the same time I am aware that we could have a moral conscience and listen to the Minister's words, and listen to the coalition Members. I was pleased, I repeat, to what Mr Potrč called for last, and therefore I think it should not be disputed that we should discuss in this National Assembly the consequences of all these actions, to find out how many there are, what amounts are and what this means for the country. But if the coalition has an honest purpose, we'll see tomorrow at the vote. That's why I'm asking for this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister for Environment and Space, the Minister for Economy and the Minister for Agriculture, while the latter is absent, will be put to Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Good afternoon! Dear President, distinguished Minister, Minister, distinguished colleague, colleague! The question of emissary is addressed to three ministers, because I think that the issue I am asking is an important topic for the whole Government. These three ministers I am asking are also directly related to the issue. It is a violation of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety. It is, however, that the adoption of the Interstate Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the Regulation of the Mutual Situation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant in 2003 adopted an amendment to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety. And in this law, for the first time in the Slovenian legal order, we recorded an anniversary in the field of radioactive waste management. On the basis of this law, the site of the landfill of low, medium-sized radioactive waste should be established by the end of 2008 and the site should also be built by the end of 2013. In November 2004 he began the process of storing a landfill of low and medium-level radioactive waste, which, by its procedure, has well excited a number of environments throughout Slovenia, as all Slovene municipalities were invited to register the site. The Municipality of Krško entered the process in March 2005, with a location in the immediate vicinity of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Very demanding procedure in spatial placement. On the one hand, it noted that, for technical reasons, it was possible to build a safe landfill on the other hand, and in the environment, it had tried to achieve the highest possible degree of social acceptability of such a demanding facility. During this time, six protocols were also adopted between the various ministries and the Municipality of Krško, on the cooperation of the Government and the local environment in the infrastructure and economic development of the environment, which has a functioning nuclear power plant, radioactive waste in its area and is aware that there is very little possibility of transferring these wastes to another environment within the Republic of Slovenia. According to numerous complications in all environments, the municipality of Krško issued a positive opinion on the location of a nuclear power plant within a thousand five-meter radius of the mentioned use on 6 July 2009. Today, almost seven months have passed since a number of co-operators were invited to issue an opinion, almost five months after the deadline for issuing this opinion, but to date, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has not been able to issue opinions on this country's important, state spatial plan. I ask the question to all three ministers: When will the state spatial plan for a landfill be adopted at a meeting of the Government of the Republic and which one of you assumes political responsibility for the violation of the law in the second half of 2009?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Mr Bogovic put the question to the three ministers. Since the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food is absent, I ask the Minister for Environment and Space and for the economy who will be the first to answer. Mr. Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	A nice greeting to the chairman, a nice greeting to the Member who asked me a question. First of all, as far as political responsibility is concerned, let me make it very clear that I am not taking it, that there will be no need to identify political responsibility. As far as the Ministry of Environment and Space is concerned, we are in accordance with the Spatial Planning Act, the drafter of the State Spatial Plan for the landfill of low radioactive waste. In April 2009, you correctly concluded that the proposal for a State Spatial Plan had been forwarded to space regulators, that a positive opinion had been obtained in twenty-four cases, and only two opinions were so far negative: the opinion on water management and the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. You know that they have been going on all the time since these two opinions are negative, different coordinations between the ministries and also with the municipality of Krško. As far as water management is concerned, I can say that, following the addition of the material from October 2009 and the additional clarifications received by the Agency at its regular coordination meeting on 10 November to prepare this State Spatial Plan, we note that all the conditions for issuing a positive opinion on water management are met and that this opinion will be issued, I hope that this week. As far as the agricultural opinion is concerned. As you correctly stated, this opinion was negative in June 2009, and several interviews were also held in this regard and it was commissioned by the Agricultural Studies Agency for Radioactive Waste. The information I have shows that this study provides a good basis for issuing the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture on the proposal for a national location plan. After I have obtained information from the Ministry of Agriculture, I am optimistic, and I believe that the operators of space regulation could deliver the necessary opinions on the State Spatial Plan. After these opinions have been obtained, of course, we will also issue an opinion immediately on the acceptability of the impact of implementing solutions on the environment. Once the proposal of the State Spatial Plan is coordinated, it will also be forwarded to the Government for consideration and acceptance. According to this information I have, I am optimistic and I think that the state spatial plan can be forwarded to the government for treatment and admission. I have to say, as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, given the Minister's absence, I have taken the information I have. However, as regards the Ministry of the Economy, given that it is less than a minute, the Minister himself may speak of political responsibility in relation to this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Dr. Bottler, would you like a word? Here you go, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you. Otherwise, more or less everything has been said. Perhaps I would just complement the Minister of Environment and Space to complement the ILO, as he said, on 11 November, with an application for the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food with appropriate professional material. As far as the Ministry of Economy is concerned, we want these procedures to be completed as soon as possible. We therefore expect that when the proposal of the State Spatial Plan receives all the necessary opinions, including the opinions of the Ministry of Agriculture and ARSO, it will be issued by the ILO Decision on the approval of the plan and then a coordinated proposal of the State Spatial Plan, on the basis of which the Government then adopts [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the State Spatial Plan Regulation for the appropriate landfill. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	To the clear question of when the VAT will be, I did not hear the answer, but that it will be. That's what I think it will be now. However, all of us, I think we are well aware of the importance of regulating certain relations, which also relate to certain compensations which form an integral part of this agreement, including the implementation of the protocols which form an integral part of this agreement. I would like to ask you clearly: Will the VAT be adopted this year or not? And have they also established protocols that apply to this Government, which have already been adopted by the end of 2007, where we have already spoken with all the ministries in the field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	As far as the deadlines for the DN are concerned, as I said, we are still waiting for these two positive opinions. One thing I said about water management is it's gonna be this week. With regard to the agricultural opinion, given the fact that the study provides good grounds for a positive opinion, I am counting on the fact that we will forward the whole matter to the government as soon as possible. I don't want to talk about dates, but it's obviously going to happen in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is absent, will ask Mr Villa Trophynik a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in view of the poor experience of the past, I will continue to say that I expect or request the Minister's oral reply at the next meeting. Because I've had some problems in the past few years. Whenever I decided to ask a question to the Minister or Minister responsible for agriculture, it was not in the National Assembly. This does not mean that I do not believe that the current Minister is justifiably absent. My question so far is very short. However, the Minister's response will, of course, depend on the continuation and probably also asking questions at the next meeting, which will be similar to that of another member of the Government. The question is: What is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food on biogas plants in terms of providing the necessary agricultural areas for the production of industrial plants, namely maize silage, which indirectly reduces the available agricultural areas for food production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will answer your question at the next meeting. Madam Minister Katarina Kresal will ask Mrs Alenka Jeraj a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. Notwithstanding the proposal adopted at the last Thursday's meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the reorganisation of the Ministry of the Interior and the agreement on the act on the classification of specific jobs and titles in the National Investigation Office, we are witnessing a clear stalemate in the results of the work of the criminal police in the field of organised and, above all, in the field of economic crime. On the basis of the above, I ask you: Have you, within the framework of the work of the criminal police, exercised any control within your powers, overcoming delays in the investigation of economic crimes, and what were the conclusions of the controls carried out? In early October, the media announced that the indictment against the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Jankovic, at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, had been filed in 2007. That's when she was sent to rescue the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office. And when the press asked them about it, they said or the head of the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office, Tamara Gregorič, said that the District Attorney, who was assigned to the case on 31 August 2007, requested a supplement at the Ljubljana Police Station, the criminal police sector. Twenty-eight. 11. In 2007, when the meeting between the prosecutor and the criminalist was held, despite the repeated urgents, the requested supplement was not received. And since the journalists then kept asking questions, they were informed that the matter was sent to the Postojna Police Administration by the Ljubljana Police Administration at the end of 2007 to resolve delays in the investigation of economic crimes. On the question of what is going on at the Police Station in Postojna, two years and a few more after the complaint was filed, the journalists informed that "the matter you are asking us is still under consideration and we are collecting notices. We will also respond to the findings as soon as possible to the prosecution." In view of the above and because you have certainly read it yourself, I am interested, as it were, in: Have you exercised control over this matter or another matter within your jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Kresalov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Dear President, honourable Member! First answer to the first part of the question. There is no way that I can agree that this is an obvious setback in the intensity of the work of the criminal police, but on the contrary, it is an obvious progress. This year, the overall crime investigation exceeded 50%, which is far more than in recent years, where on average we have never exceeded 44%. It is particularly interesting when you mentioned organised crime that the investigation rose by 60% in the area of illicit drugs and by 17% in the area of illicit manufacturing and arms trafficking. So it's obvious progress. All these results are the result of greater pro-activity and better efficiency in the work of the police, but I believe that the measures that we have taken for such a better job at the Ministry of the Interior have also been taken. All measures are moving towards a sustainable step forward, a sustainable leap in this area of improving the pursuit of economic crime. I will just list a few measures as an example of what we have done in this short year. If I wanted everything, it would take too long. As we have already said several times, the National Investigation Office opens its doors in January, we have further introduced an anonymous e-commissioning system on the e-government platform, which gives excellent results. We were also the initiator of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which introduced in September this year a new institute of specific multidisciplinary investigation teams for investigations and effective prosecution of difficult financial and other criminalities. We have strengthened information, we have established access to relevant databases for crime-specialists operating in the field of economic crime. We have established a state centre and four regional centres for computer forensics and e-data research within the framework of the Crime Service Administration. With a view to strengthening interinstitutional cooperation in the field of prosecution of difficult economic and financial crime, we have continued to conclude specific memoranda with other relevant institutions such as the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the Anti-Corruption Commission and so on. We have also been the initiator of the amendments to the State Prosecutor's Office's Cooperation Regulation, which will further improve and speed up this cooperation and provide for the adoption of this Regulation at the beginning of next year. Of course, this increased activity burdens human resources in the criminal service. As with the uniformed police, this is where we face a severe shortage of human resources. It is precisely because of this fear that there may be no backlogs, that I have asked the Police Directorate and other security tasks to produce a report on police activities in this area. The report issued by the police on this initiative revealed an increase in the crimes under consideration, as well as all the measures taken by the police to ensure that these crimes could be dealt with as quickly as possible. The police are also planning additional measures in the future. In addition, I have also instructed the competent Directorate to prepare appropriate guidelines for the work of the police in this area. The importance of the prosecution of economic and financial crime is also reflected in the guidelines and mandatory guidelines I gave to prepare an annual police work plan for 2010. Thus, the pursuit of this type of crime remains a priority strategic task. Here again, I can say that once the National Investigation Office is established, one large part of the tasks will be transferred to this office and this will also reduce the burden of the criminal service. That I do not run out of time in connection with the complaint against the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. When I traced these concerns to the public that the complaint was standing, I immediately requested a report from the Police Supervisory Directorate on what was going on. It is true, as you yourself have already said, that the case was filed in 2007, which is during the time of former Minister Matei, and then also intervened in Postojna for the purpose of resolving the arrears, and this year its treatment has also stalled. As the police have told me, these proceedings are now ongoing, the investigation is proceeding normally in accordance with the legal powers of the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you. You didn't answer my question: Is there any control? Except that you have asked for this case. I'm interested in all this one-year term. You've announced the reorganisation, or we all know it's going to be a new office. You predicted or said that the results were very good. Many times, when things are reorganized, things can also stop because there is a new need to put groups, etc., people need to get used to some new system. But we do have cases, like last week's case, the explosion of the bomb outside the judge's apartment, when the criminals were very quick. A few days after the incident, five police vehicles were taken in complete equipment, armed, as it turned out, innocent. Not to mention, there's been a data error. We know not so long ago a similar case. If anyone, the police should probably have accurate information about the citizens or not be afraid of showing up at our door tomorrow, by mistake, armed police. I want to know: Will you also exercise any control or action in this case? Have you exercised any control in the last year as part of the work of the criminal police?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, if this is a matter of substantial new questions, you will assess whether you are answering or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	It's hard to report for all the police controls, because there's quite a few because I want the police to report back to me on what's going on. But in particular with regard to these economic issues, and also with your specific question regarding the Ljubljana mayor, I have told you that I have requested a report through the Directorate. This is the way I have to go if I want to get the police reports. It was explained to me that during 2007, during the previous term, there were delays due mainly to the change in personnel due to the change in turnover due to the departures to retirement. The explanation that I find important during my term of office is that this investigation is ongoing without hindrance at the moment, in accordance with the powers vested in the criminal police. Besides, you mentioned bombings and stuff. It is not negligible that the last two bombings were investigated extremely quickly. That there was also the first robbery of a weapon in this mandate, which was investigated to the end. All of this is the product of a good work by the criminal police. And even the last bomb attack that doesn't even know if it's a bomb, because it doesn't know what kind of explosive body it was, is being investigated by the police for almost 24 hours a day. I hope that by collecting notices and with all the other powers, they will come to a conclusion, because this is the best prevention for all future actions. In the data collection cycle, in the absence of material evidence, it is also necessary to obtain evidence through various examinations of the situation, through discussions. Until the investigation is completed, potential suspects cannot be excluded. This is not a mistake, but the exclusion of those who are then found to have no evidence in a certain direction. Since you mentioned quickly that some error should have been already in the previous proceedings, I conclude, given that there was a lot of talk in the media, that you were talking about the investigation of Istrabenz and the alleged wrong number in the court order. Several times this has been demented, and I will be here again, and I hope that someone will hear it: the information in the order was not wrong. All investigations were carried out correctly on the numbers on which they had to be carried out. The police have explained this several times, but apparently it's very convenient that no one wants to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraieva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	That's all I'd say. In the previous government, the case stood up, you said, one year ago the previous government had a government, now you have one year, so it's probably not best to refer to it. By saying how much more efficient police and criminals are. I'm sure we're all pleased and it's important to investigate such cases quickly with attacks as you mentioned or me first. But since this is an important topic, I would suggest that, in accordance with Article 246 of the next meeting, we hold a discussion on this answer from the Minister and also on specific cases perhaps.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on the response of Minister Kresalova will be decided by the committee tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The question of the Minister's emissary is asked by Dr. Peter Verlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. I would like to ask you a question that is very up to date today. At present, however, it has become especially so since the tragic traffic accidents that have taken place. On this issue, however, I decided simply because I asked you, in fact, at the end of August, about traffic safety and the deterioration of traffic security, to which the data, including police statistics, indicated this question simply for one reason: Did the police, as a body in the composition or the ministry, register this and would it indicate that any action would be taken in relation to improving traffic security? In that reply then, in writing, you replied to me that with the traffic safety situation on Slovenian roads we still cannot be satisfied, but the consequences of traffic accidents this year are significantly lighter than ever during a comparable period since 1960, which is true, and further that the police, as a body in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, regularly monitor data on the number of deaths in individual categories of roads and their actions adapt to the findings of the analyses. So I'm actually interested in how these findings of the police have not actually noticed any deterioration at the time that, in fact, tragic accidents have had to occur, and then a whole bunch of more stringent measures have to be announced. This is not the case; we will certainly be in the National Assembly if there is to be a change of law, talk about it and devote ourselves to it. However, I just want to ask: Did accidents have to be a sign for these more stringent measures, or did the findings of the police that were before indicate such a harsh situation? I think it's right that we care continuously, as you wrote down, and that the accidents that happen should not be a cause for aggravation. Here's the main purpose of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	Minister Kresalov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Dear Member. In fact, it is a sad fact that, despite everything that is happening on our roads, the situation is still better than it was last year, the victim is smaller. It would be totally wrong for the authorities to come forward and respond only when something serious happens. Therefore, traffic safety was one of the priorities that I highlighted before I was appointed Minister. That's why we started a series of measures. One of the most important is the preparation of all the acts and the establishment of a road safety agency, which we are working with our fellow Minister of Transport. This is an important project which we hope will come to life next year. The police have also been extremely focused on preventive actions, education. And the fact is that the result of all of these measures that we had today is that we have seventy fewer victims than we had on this same day last year. And if we look at that together there are one hundred and sixty-six dead this year on our roads, that's quite a reduction. All the activities carried out by the police have proved to be of some greater safety on the road, but it is clear that when such accidents occur, there must be another reason to reconsider whether we have really focused on the real problems or whether we have done everything. And when a tragedy like this happens to you, you just sit down again and say, "Are we missing anything, or is there anything else you can do? And here was this bell, this warning that alcohol needs to be attacked even more, alcohol in connection with the steering wheel. And that's why we've brought together all three ministers, including transport and justice, because you come together a lot faster than each other. That's the way it is. And we thought about what else we could do. If you remember, the police did an analysis of all imports and exports to the motorways from the stations, from the point of view of traffic signalling. This is not her jurisdiction at all, it belongs to another institution. But she simply said, let's make a greater effort than we do with our powers, and they did a thick image analysis in a few days with proposals for changes. All of this was transmitted to the Minister of Transport, and this immediately to Darsa, who is responsible for it. As far as I know, by the end of this month, these things are supposed to be done. Next. Changing the philosophy of police work is something we've been preparing in the police for months. It goes hand in hand to reorganise the police work itself and with the ultimate goal of greater autonomy of police administrations. The fact that individual police administrations will no longer be just incassants, but that this changes so that they can start organising their own security policy is the result of a little longer preparation. True, these accidents may have encouraged us to implement them even more. And as we have predicted, from 1.1.2010 begins experimentally on the Police Administration of Celje. If it turns out that the system is reliable within a few months, we'll have it all over the country. We were simply reminded of some things by the parents of these young people who lost their lives on the roads at the meeting we had together. For example, at times inappropriate treatment of doctors, police officers, prosecutors, all those who then meet with their victims. They warned us with concrete cases, but this shocked us, we do not know about such details and we have immediately begun certain measures in our area. We'll be much better off organizing those psychologists we have on the force. We met with them immediately, they were very pleased to hear them, they have very concrete suggestions on how to provide psychological assistance to all victims of crimes, not just traffic offences. Then we were warned that in certain cases there were delays in court proceedings, on average not, but some of them were really eccentric cases. If we hadn't been warned, it would have been difficult for Minister Zalar to request supervision and a report from the prosecution. As he told me, this report was received yesterday and will give concrete guidance on how to deal with such matters. There's no way this is about ignoring the problem until it happens. The whole ministry's work strategy is about better road safety and we already have better road safety. There was no fatality among Martin's, that's an important event, and we hope that there won't be any in December. However, we have been alerted to a few things, and the events and people who have unfortunately found themselves in them are trying to be responsive and effective. That's our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Madam Secretary, thank you so much for your frank response. In fact, I was expecting that perhaps the accidents that have happened have shaken you, that you have actually reacted even more. It is easy for me to ask that question, I am sorry now that I may not have relied solely on the statistics, that I may not have tried to be myself, if you let me be more acute, but to warn, but perhaps these tragic accidents would not have occurred. I want to say that the work of the police really needs to continue in the direction that prevention increases, that the accidents that happen will not warn us, in short, that this philosophy will change, and I hope that accidents will not happen. I am also pleased that the number of accidents compared to last year was lower, which means that that novel of the Road Safety Act, which the current coalition then discussed in the National Assembly, if you look at the magnetograms, did not support too much, was not in favour of a drastic increase in penalties. That's how we're gonna have to talk about this. And I'd like to ask you: Do you not think that the amendment of the Penal Code, which introduced the insolent road traffic as a special article, is it a police article - this novel has been applied since 1 November - to whom has it been penalized? Have there been any complaints? I think this article gives a substantial basis, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To get these dangerous drivers off the road, behind bars, as it says, can be up to five years, even up to 12 years. [[...]] I wonder: ‘ Is there any information about this? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Kresal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Dear Member. Too bad you didn't ask me that question earlier today. I don't know the number. I know that it has been used several times to create problems in practice with certain inaccuracies of the content of the article. However, it is important that we complement it, that it is important that the bold driving in the Penal Code - this is an important step - and we will try to complement it with the fact that the one who is once again sitting behind the wheel drunk, who has already been deprived of his driving licence, will become a criminal offence. If you want, we will answer this question in concrete writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. If written answers can be obtained, I would be grateful. However, I certainly think, and this is a procedural proposal to hold a debate on this answer in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is important to clarify whether these measures, which have been imposed, are, in my opinion, very good, in the previous amendment to the Road Safety Act, which imposed a penalty increase, but were then severely attacked by the current coalition. I think it is now an opportunity for us to discuss all these things honestly and to do more together in the National Assembly for transport safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Verlic, the debate will be about the answers that the Minister has already given to your questions. If she's gonna put anything else in writing, it's her business. There can be no special debate on this. Is he okay? Thank you very much. We will, however, decide tomorrow in the National Assembly on your proposal to hold a debate. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, who will ask a question from the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for my question to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Luksic, is two media news. The first refers to the decision or judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and concerns the sign of a cross in the classrooms of State schools, which, according to the Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice, does not belong to a State school because it is not compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. Recently, however, it was possible to understand that religious symbols are also present at school premises in Slovenia. The question, of course, relates to a specific situation and I am sure, Mr Minister, that you know it well enough. But of course, I'm asking a question. According to the Constitution, the Slovenian school is a lay school. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education also protects the autonomy of school premises. However, Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which, by the way, has also been examined by the Constitutional Court, allows, in the fifth indent of this Article, that, in special circumstances, the Minister may exceptionally, on a proposal from the Director at the premises of a public school or school outside the school or outside the school period, permit a religious or confessional teaching of religion, provided that there are no other cases of space in the local community for such activity. In my question, I would like to link both situations, so I ask you, Mr. Secretary, How many public schools and public schools are engaged in confessional activities in the school year 2009/2010? In how many and what religious facilities is the educational process of public kindergartens and public schools in this school year? I would also like to ask: In such cases, how is payment of compensation for the use of premises arranged? For how long is the exemption allowed? How common is it in this school year compared to the past? I thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Dr. Luksic, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	President, honourable Member, Members, Minister! Thank you for asking. This question certainly goes beyond the answer that the Minister of Education can give in full. In particular, the first part concerns the European situation and should be addressed urgently by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by colleague Žekš and the Office of Religious Communities. As I understand the question, I have already informed the Commission and the Office, with all other matters falling within the area of the relationship between religious communities and schools and the country. It's been about three months. At that time, I have found that this area is disorderly and allows for different practices. More so when there will be any outcome of discussions on these competent authorities. With regard to matters relating to education directly, the number of schools in which vocational education is conducted, in accordance with this law, is as follows. 64 proposals were made in 2007-2008 and 60 decisions were issued. So there were four of them. In 2008-2009, 49 proposals were made, 46 were issued and three were not. In 2009-2010 there were 52 proposals. In 50 schools there is a religious process, so many decisions have been made. What is a problem and what is messy is that certain roles are still in the process because we have recently received them, so they are not handed over before the first school day, so that they can then be legally and legitimately carried out in accordance with existing legislation. About the payment. The Ministry does not collect data on how much religious communities pay for the use of school premises. The assessment of our primary education base is that it pays about one tenth to one fifth. So about six to ten out of 52. Then it is a question of how many religious facilities are taught in school. Schools are not obliged to inform the Ministry. But our primary school department received three notifications in 2009-2010 that the primary school programme is being implemented at the premises of the parish. There were no such problems. I remember the Benedict case, where at the time of the re-establishment of the school there was also teaching in the parish and there were no problems. The school was built and the school moved to new school premises. In Grosuplje, however, there are some problems solved by the school inspectorate in cooperation with the mayor and the school. These are the answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your input, but I also wanted to know from you: In these cases, when the Minister permits the conduct of religious instruction or the teaching of confessional activity - this is a religious matter - is a short-term measure or a longer-term measure? Why do I ask that? When I received this information from the former Minister in 2000, 13 such schools were in 2001. By 2006-2007, there were 30 of them, and now that you've spoken to me, there are 60, 46 or 50. It can also be concluded that the payment of the use of space is a very favourable version for the organisation of confessional instruction, unless there is a need for additional payment. Of course, no one deals with the idea of how the right, probably minorities, to respect the conviction and thus the rights of the child to freedom of conscience and religion is then guaranteed at these schools, because the question is what is the matter with the things or with the teaching aids they use in the exercise of this teaching. And you might find some problem, such as how a believer’s lesson is placed in the schedule. And I have some news from around here that many times happens that regular schooling has to adapt to the teaching of a believer. This is unacceptable from the point of view of the Constitution. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I'd like to know: Do you have any information as to how long such a decision takes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	This Decision shall take one year. Every year, schools should be making new applications. We do not have a review of this; surely there are schools where this is carried out on the basis of a decision from years ago, but they did not think it appropriate or consider that when one decision has been taken that this is true for all years. This, of course, must also be considered whether it makes sense to issue this decision every year. It is my opinion that if we remain under existing legislation and this regulation, this is pointless and it would be better to issue a decision for a longer period. But what is certain is the urgency of the question of how the number of schools in which religious instruction is being taught increases, of course, it is necessary to consider whether things can be set in a different way. Under existing legislation, the Minister is forced to sign this if an appropriate authority assesses that a child is at risk when walking from school to a religious facility where a religious person is supposed to carry out it. We know that every body, these competent authorities must, by definition, issue this provision, because otherwise they must accept our responsibility that if they issue a provision to write that it is not a dangerous road, they will accept our responsibility that if a traffic accident occurs, they are to blame. Anyone who acts after this interpretation, anyone who makes an application, must be granted if he obtains that opinion. However, the opinion must be positive for the role. Therefore, it is now necessary to consider what plan we have launched with this possibility, since we are giving the possibility that all primary schools are subject to the exercise of a religion or almost all of them, unless the school is across the road, but that is already the problem. Like I said, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This does not concern so much the Ministry of Education, it is not a question of school policy, it is a question of the relationship between the church and the state and therefore in particular the government commission dealing with these matters and the Office of Religious Affairs. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. On this issue, I have had one procedural issue raised and I would suggest that the next meeting will be followed by an assessment of whether such issues, which are only in the function of intolerance, mental hatred and the netness of cultural struggle, fall within this area of the questions sent, given that the Minister of Education has also said that this does not fall within its scope at all. It is a feeling that someone simply wants to tease parents and local communities, which make certain things right for the mutual benefit; once they work together, once they work together others. In fact, I see no other than the inextricable cultural struggle and intolerance and mental hatred. I think that this is no longer necessary today and that the next meeting should assess whether such issues make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Mr Jerovšek, you have abused the right to make a procedural proposal. You are of the kind that the question of sending can be raised in the context of law enforcement and here was the issue of enforcement of the Law on Education and Education. Please don't say anything because I'm talking! I have followed the words of Mrs Potrate, who has not used one insulting statement. However, if you want to ask any further questions, what can and should not be dealt with under the parliamentary issues, you will have to do so in writing. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] [[...]] Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask the outgoing Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Good-bye to all of you. Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I have a question for the Minister of Health, Mr Borut Miklavčič. Unfortunately, he's gone because of his illness. Since he is recovering well, even with the help of local Slovenian health care, I am really happy and I wish him a near recovery. However, there is no need to stress that health problems are increasing. This was discussed extensively at the urgent meeting of the Health Committee last week, when simple solutions, particularly in the area of health financing, were not found. Saving measures in the form of Annex No. 1, to the 2009 general agreement, basic health care was the most at risk. However, this is not the only problem in primary health, where doctors are severely lacking, especially on the periphery. Leveraging in the workforce is saved by retired doctors so that access to general ambulances is not even worse. It is very difficult to get a doctor to remote places where the tradition of an ambulance can be for many years. As we know, the granting of concessions in the field of health care is frozen. But it could be the only chance for a doctor in a remote infirmary to get a concession. As an example, I refer to the general infirmary in Planina near Sevnica, which is 17 kilometers from the home health center in Šentjur, and it is visited by over 3,000 inhabitants of hilly places, old people, farmers and the like, who are difficult to go to the valley. The infirmary has been operational for over 100 years. Two years ago, a doctor who had spent his entire working time in this place retired, said to have left this infirmary, and so now two retired doctors are happily still working in this infirmary. A young doctor from another country is interested in taking over the infirmary after maternity leave, but only on condition that she obtains the concession. I ask the Minister of Health: What measures do you plan to take in the area of better access to health services, particularly in the context of primary health concessions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. You will receive a written reply from the Minister of Health within 30 days. The next question will be asked by Mr Srečko Friend to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is also absent. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: How will the Republic of Slovenia protect its national interest and prevent the sale of agricultural land in the area of Primorska? In view of the adoption of the Cooperatives Act in the National Assembly, which allows only three foreigners to register cooperatives and purchase agricultural land, it is envisaged that, due to the great desire to purchase and low prices of these agricultural land, we will have a square metre of only 0.4 euros and then up from Italy to purchase the Rapal border. We were already appalled at the adoption of this law, and at that time we said that it was unacceptable for the three foreigners to allow the establishment of a cooperative, that the law could in fact have written it down accidentally or that we wanted to write it down These people would never engage in agricultural activities. [[...]] We have already warned about this since 11 December 2007 and then in February one year later, and on 5 May 2008, and last but not least this year, we have asked the same question. Why the Republic of Slovenia cannot protect national interests in the sale of land is an issue for the Minister of Agriculture. Finally, we see that we are also losing battle with Croatia when it possesss land. We will now allow the 60 million people of Italy to buy this land cheaply, and I must say, not for the first time in this Chamber, that the Republic of Italy is also providing appropriate very favourable credit arrangements for the purchase of these land. Of course, the Italian residents, and this applies only to the territorial border. The worrying fact is that the Fund of Agricultural Lands has also done nothing to prevent this. We also did not introduce a so-called positive reciprocal purchasing relationship in the area of real estate sales. We know that Italy has a desire to buy this part of Slovenia if it has not already been able to get it the second way and that they are working to get to this land as soon as possible. As a result, we have not introduced this positive reciprocity in the area of real estate sales. And now the only protected area, that was the agricultural land, we leave it in the hands of foreigners. So far, foreigners have not been able to buy agricultural land, and now this will happen. Believe me, this is about selling Slovenia. I therefore refer the question to the Minister for Agriculture: Who will be responsible? Who will bear the consequences of selling Slovenia? What are we gonna do to stop this?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister will answer you in 30 days, Mr. Friend, in writing. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'll fix it, but it's your fault you didn't say it. You should say that you are asking for an oral answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	I'm sorry. I don't want any written answers. I want an oral response to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	Please, I'm sure it's the same. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Let the Slovenians hear what's going on here in the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	Don't comment because I gave you the opportunity to correct, but before that, you didn't ask for an oral response. Mr Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Respectable. The question I am referring to the Minister for Education and Sport concerns the area of kindergarten protection. As far as I can see, I will not be alone today, but many questions have been raised to the Minister in this area in recent months, but some activities have not been observed in this direction. The favourable situation we have seen in recent years, as well as some of the measures that have been taken, particularly with regard to encouraging young families to resolve the housing issue, the allowance for large families and general social circumstances, have helped to increase fertility after three years of decline in Slovenia. This trend continues, is positive and promises show that it will be positive in this year and next year. In this context, many young families and many individuals who are involved in the work and at home face the fact that they do not have child care. According to the information given by the Minister at one of the meetings of the National Assembly in response to the question by one of my colleagues, there were 3,300 in September this year. If we add 2,500 more children to these 3,300 children, as the minister has announced that they will be deprived of kindergarten care during this year, we will reach 5,800 children. 5,800 children will not have kindergarten protection in the Republic of Slovenia. If we know that it is mainly children from the first age period and if we take into account the standards in force during this first age period, that is 12 children, that is, 483 departments and 50 kindergartens. Currently, there are 50 kindergartens in Slovenia so that children can have the basic housing situation provided. For this reason, I ask the Minister: What is the vision of the ministry in this area? On the basis of this vision, what are the priorities or concrete immediate measures to be implemented by the Ministry? As part of this vision, I am interested in how much money is allocated to address this issue in this year, how much in the future and how much in 2011? In what way does the Ministry intend to encourage different ways of establishing kindergarten protection, given that we have a fairly rigid system in Slovenia in this area and that parents, even if they want to, do so, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] do they have any choice, which, according to the Constitution and the European guidelines in force, should they have? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	Mr. Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Blackach, for the question. We know that kindergartens under the jurisdiction of the congregations and that those who could properly assess how development would take place in their congregation could also quietly follow the development of birthrates or immigration and have no problems. If we go to the data, we have more recent information here. At the end of September 2009, the Community of kindergartens of Slovenia collected new data. He spoke about the data we collected on September 1st. This is about data from the end of September. According to this data, 2542 children are rejected, i.e. about 500 less. Why did this happen? Because of the number of children rejected, at the beginning of September 1st, those children were also included because of a double application. At the end of the month, it was found that these double applications were about 500. 2500 is a real number, so that, according to the kindergarten community, those children are included in this issue, or we may doubt that everyone, but at least one part that is supposed to be included in kindergartens or waiting in line during the year. So there's 2,500 of these. During this same period, according to data from the end of September, there are 2,000 vacancies for children of the second age period. The problem is, they're not in the same place. Free cities are at other ends of Slovenia such as needs. Over the course of the year, 82 other departments are expected to open up according to our information, with some 1,148 free cities on their way. As can be seen from all the information, most congregations work well and have no problems. However, there are some congregations that have problems with this, and it is also right that the media are particularly alert to these congregations. Because, as you know, there are some "exemplary" municipalities that have problems not only with kindergartens, but also with primary schools and other things. It is not a problem at the level of school policy, but it is a problem at the level of some municipalities. With regard to the right to diversity. The right to diversity is not violated. I come from Medvode, where there is a kindergarten montessori pedagogy. There's a trail in the parish hall. My parents are very pleased with this kindergarten. I've been there for a visit, they're doing good, and they're just making up their minds about it. We also have kindergartens working on Waldorf pedagogy, we also have Catholic kindergartens. So the space is open here. There is now a law or amendment of the Kindergarten Act, which will also give parents the opportunity to find the right space for themselves and give the municipality the initiative to carry out a child-protective activity in this area. At the beginning of the school year, we evened out the criteria for homogeneous and heterogeneous kindergartens. So we've made it possible to additionally, according to our estimate, from 200 to 400, we don't have the data yet, so we can place the child in kindergarten. Of course, this needs to be said in particular, we do not want the standards to fall, but we just want to temporarily allow for a greater entry, assuming that the municipalities also provide additional educators. The Ministry is monitoring the case. Well, from a financial point of view. Priority is given to kindergartens, i.e. primary schools, where we have provided twice as much funding for this as was allocated to them in last year's financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	Dear Minister, I asked you for a vision of concrete action. This minor measure of reform of the legislation has caused something small, but it is not a vision or a measure that could solve the situation. It's about diversity. Of course it's broken. Less than 5% of children have a choice. Not everyone is in an equal position from the point of view of ensuring this protection. In the case of public kindergartens, compulsory investments in kindergartens are provided by the State and the municipalities, and in the case of others investments must be provided by the same ones and are not recognised at any price. The main problem, you mentioned, is the municipalities or mayors, in your opinion. I ask you why we need the Ministry of Education and Sport if you have answered that not only in kindergartens, even in schools, some municipalities are OK, they provide spaces and others are not OK because they do not provide them. Then what about the dozens of employees in the Ministry of Education and Sport who are working on this area? Then, look, Mr. Secretary, we don't need them. Let the congregations handle these matters on their own, and let us give them the means. To keep statistics and make it difficult for those who are a little more agile, with such or other "rigid" rules, we really don't need that. On 17 May this year you attended the Family Festival in Postojna and then you announced a free kindergarten since 2010. That's your statement. Children from 2010 onwards will have free kindergarten. In the framework of the legislation that we are considering at this meeting in the National Assembly, we can see that the implementation of the step announced for a child before school is in effect. 1. 2010 moves to 1. 1. 2011 to reduce, do not increase, funds for investments in kindergartens, that this year you failed to produce a single call for co-financing of these investments, and that the overall burden of solving this problem is on municipalities that are already in financial deficits due to increased enrolment, because they no longer have the money provided for all that they owe, and these are educators and material costs to finance. So what will the Ministry do in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you for asking. So you know that this country and this area haven't existed since I was a minister or since this government existed. For some more radical measures that you are suggesting, time has probably been more appropriate in the past four years. What is now possible is what I am using; so I said we are planning twice as much for next year to invest in kindergartens, twice as much. As for the prediction that kindergarten 2010 will be free, I did not make these predictions and will never give it, 2010 no! But I was talking, and this remains my vision that kindergartens should be free of charge for all children as soon as possible. Why is that? Because I am sure that the most burdensome generation of parents who have children in kindergartens who handle a housing problem have unsafe jobs, and the cost for children and maintenance of children is the highest. So a long-term vision remains that. If, for example, the Slovenian economy were able to deliver 7% of growth this year, we could certainly think about such measures by 2011, 2012. However, I have always said, colleagues, that it is first necessary to convince the Slovenian public about this, then the National Assembly and then we can count on such measures. As long as it's just a subject of ping-pong, inter-party fighting, and just for that purpose, attention will be given to kindergartens, and by then we'll have a problem. So Slovenia needs one serious consensus that this is our common priority and not just the priority of the current opposition when it comes to power and does not take steps to defend it when it is in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	In addition to not getting an answer to my questions, the minister also showed that he had no vision in this area. He has no vision in the area of kindergarten protection. The burden has been passed on to the former government or to the current opposition after one year. At the time of its rule, the current opposition set a course in this area. The direction was very clear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	Mr. Blackach, will you make a procedural proposal? [[...]] The procedural proposal is not intended to assess the work of the Minister. That'll come later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	I therefore propose that, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on this issue, the National Assembly should hold a debate on what the country's actual priorities are in this area. [[...]] It should be seen whether it is the municipalities and mayors who are to carry out the vision of kindergarten protection in this country, whether it is a matter of a ministry that is relevant to this area. In this debate, it should be clarified how and how children born, which is good, will be granted the right to kindergarten protection in this country in the coming months and, above all, in the coming year, because of nativity, trends are positive. At this point, as I said and repeat again, there are approximately 480 sections of the first age period in the whole country, which means that 5,000 children will be left without kindergarten protection in a year. Even if you double the funds you've been talking about, Mr Minister, from one million and a half this year to three million euros, that means nothing. These resources are not enough to build a single kindergarten. This year, we witnessed the announcement by the SVR of a bold announcement made by the Foreign Minister of the previous year. That one part of the funding allocated under the fifth call for proposals, which has not happened as announced, and is not yet available today, will be the European means for one important part of the EUR 202 million to be allocated to investments in the area of kindergarten protection. There is no such invitation to tender. It's about European funds. The municipalities would apply for this call, and these funds would also be useful. The benefit would be multi-layered, the investment wheel of the country would start spinning, municipalities could take advantage of this potential, and children would have room to stay in kindergartens next year. In short, in connection with this debate, I think it would be good to look also at the message of the STA of 17 May this year, where it is clearly stated that Mr Luksic said that regarding kindergarten our goal is a free kindergarten for all parents since 2010. This was also written by the Journal a day later. At this festival of Slovenian families, Mr Luksic said: "It is not a problem that there is no means, the problem is priorities." If the problem is of priority, ladies and gentlemen, then let us discuss it and set it. I don't think it's a money problem myself, but it has to be used, including the European one. I therefore invite you to support this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. You know you've abused the right you have to propose a debate. You were talking about your perspective on the problem. Other agenda items are intended for this purpose. The opposition can use them, prepare material, make a problem, demand a discussion at a regular or extraordinary session, and we will talk about it. The aim of the procedural proposal is to propose to the National Assembly that it vote on whether the Minister's response to your questions is being discussed at the next meeting and we will do so. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	See, Mr President, in explanation on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which allow me to do so, I would like to tell you that it is not true what you have said. In my explanation under Article 246, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, I explained what the National Assembly should discuss under this point. I explained in detail the reasons that led me to submit such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Mr. Blackach, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	If you'll allow me just one more sentence. Of course, what I proposed was based on the Minister's inadequate replies. And I have this right in such a case, I mean, according to the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I took advantage of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Mr. Blackach, thank you very much. You repeated what I had learned before. You've been explaining what he should be talking about, not the answer he's already given. And that will be decided tomorrow by the National Assembly. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to ask a question to the absent Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I wish to have an oral reply to the next meeting. In June 2009, it was announced that the fifth public tender would be on the use of resources for the development of the regions. Today it is the end of the year, leaving some €290 million out of about 600, because they are not distributed or no invitation or invitation has been prepared for them, however. During its four years, the former Government made six calls, two from the previous period and four calls from Dr. Žagar for the period 2007/2013. In this way, some 300 million euros have been distributed. So it's been around for a year and there's no invitation to tender. Worse still, projects actually stop and, of course, the problem that arises is that they will not be realized in the way that development projects were set up, adopted in the holy regions. That is why, of course, I ask the Minister: When will this invitation be made? However, I urge him not only to make the fifth, to go to the end of 2013, for a total of EUR 290 million. All these regions have adopted projects and municipalities have projects. The requirement to submit building permits for these projects is without hindrance. With this call, ladies and gentlemen, we will re-launch some 10,000 jobs in the area where unemployment is the largest, for a simple reason, because the most resources for the development of the regions are the least developed areas and the least developed regions. And the second part of my question concerns, given the statement made by Minister Henri Gjerkesh on one occasion, that the elections to the regional councils will be in 2010. So if 2010 is to be, at least half a year earlier, it is necessary to arrange everything else or to adopt about, as before, six laws. So: When will he bring regional legislation to the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Gjerkes will answer your question orally at the next meeting. Member Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will raise a question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. My parliamentary question concerns the extremely pressing issue of non-payment of salaries and contributions to social and health insurance. In view of these actions, there have been no relevant reactions in practice, no inspection or control body of the State, nor any law enforcement authorities. This is despite the fact that the conscious failure to pay wages or contributions under Article 196 of the Penal Code, before that Act, was Article 205 of the Penal Code, the offence of which the employer is also at risk of imprisonment. Pursuant to the third subparagraph of Article 32(1) of the Act on [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow the Member to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much, colleagues. Therefore, in accordance with Article 32 of the Inspection Act, an inspector shall have the right and duty to declare a criminal offence or to file a criminal charge for an offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation in respect of the management of inspection tasks. However, it is not clear from the annual reports on the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work that the Inspectorate of the Republic for Work would file any complaint under this Title. After talking to the Chief Inspector of the Republic of Slovenia about the issue of non-investment of criminal charges in this article, he wrote to me in a letter dated 14 September 2009, quote: "We will pay particular attention to the existence of a suspicion of a criminal offence in the field of the fundamental rights of workers, and in these cases, we will file complaints and also monitor the decisions of law enforcement authorities." By letter dated 2 November 2009, the Chief Inspector of the Republic of Slovenia wrote, in contrast to the above-mentioned statement, quote: "Inspectors of the Republic of Slovenia Inspectorate for Work are not competent or qualified to identify offences in respect of non-payment of contributions, nor do they have access to records containing such data, as it is managed by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia." In view of the above, I ask: What inspection or supervisory authority is responsible for responding to the mass violations of the aforementioned articles of the Penal Code, i.e. the offences of non-payment of salaries and social and health contributions pursued under official duty? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament! This issue has been in the treatment of various bodies and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for quite some time. I can summarise what has been clarified so far, and let you know that, under Article 228 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who manages the accounting controls, the payment of contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance, and collects, recovers, records, partially rejects or allows the decision or payment of compulsory insurance contributions. In practice, this means that in the event of a failure to pay, the tax administration shall immediately inform the employer that the contributions must be settled. If the employer is unable to pay the contributions, he may apply for a decision to pay the contributions. That's up to the tax administration. With regard to the inspectorate, on the basis of the employee's statements that contributions were not paid, the tax administration could request data and, if it found that the employer is paying the contributions and that the contributions are not deferred, initiate proceedings against the employer. By law, he can also prohibit the doing of work as we have already explained. However, we would point out that in practice, in most cases, there is a decision to pay contributions by the tax administration. In such a case, when it comes to a payment order, the inspector does not have the said powers. It follows that its real powers and powers are limited only when it comes to employment in black and thus related non-declaration of an individual or non-payment of social security contributions. In short, this is a matter of different situations and also of different competences. With regard to the suspicion of criminal service, we explain whether an inspector for work or a tax officer in the performance of inspection tasks finds that the law or other regulation or an act which he supervises has the right and duty to order action to remedy irregularities and deficiencies within the time limit set by the inspector; to carry out procedures in accordance with the offence law, it is also fair to charge certain fines; to declare a criminal offence or to file a criminal charge for an offence which is prosecuted under official duty; to propose to the competent authority the adoption of measures; to order other measures and to put an end to the offences for which he is entitled. In general, it seems that workers who experience alleged irregularities and violations of labour rules come to the aid of an inspectorate where they receive appropriate explanations and advice on their problem in any case. In the case of legal options and powers, the inspectorate shall also take direct action. Where a court or other authority of the State is responsible for the resolution of a case, the work inspector shall send them there or withdraw the case himself. The situation is also relatively complex because the cases and complaints before the court have also been considered as so-called easier infringements. On this basis, even the court rejected such applications and charges. This is shown by some examples that we have analysed. As a result, because of the lack of clear powers and because of the various cases which are "located" to various bodies, and also because of the lack of clarity in dealing with these violations, the Ministry is preparing changes in legislation in the field of pension and disability insurance and labour law, which will also clearly and unequivocally define the powers of inspection for work in such cases. One of the objectives of modernising the pension system is also to make this payment monitored and transparent. In addition, the Government, aware of these problems, has set up a special inter-resortary group which will draw up appropriate solutions to ensure that, in the future, contributions to pension insurance will no longer be paid to the extent that we have considered so far, even in the days of this week. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your answer. From this set of data, it was nevertheless understood that those two responsible supervisors, who should react in these cases, are the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work and Durs when they encounter such cases. I hope that something will also happen in this regard and that the current mass damage to employees will also have consequences. In view of the fact that it was not observed at one time that the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia would carry out the tasks required by Article 32 of the Inspection Service Act in relation to the offences in question. In this regard, I would like to read further the findings of the Ombudsman regarding the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work she has given to the injured worker, who also complained to her because the Labour Inspectorate did not wish to file a criminal complaint against the employer who did not pay him his salary. She wrote: In the past, the Ombudsman has also noted that the Inspectorate of the Republic for Work may not have proposed prosecution of a crime, even though employers may have had signs of crime. We drew attention to the problem in the Ombudsman's 2008 Annual Report, where we stated on a case-by-case basis that we believe that the labour inspectorate should make several motions to prosecute the crime. In such severe cases as has been described, always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	If you allow me, I would say once again that there have been individual complaints by the inspectors that they have ended up as I said in the courts, and this shows that we do not have the best-ordered area and we are trying to arrange it. At the same time, I must point out that in cases where there is no payment, workers are not harmed as regards their numbering of working hours. However, for those who are now retiring, this non-payment may have an impact on their basis for calculating their pension. Newly, we are looking for a solution to ensure that such individuals are not harmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Perhaps my question would be more in the hands of the President of the Government, but he has already answered the questions for today, and I am now putting it to the Minister. It's about being 29. 9. A strong Serbian delegation with President Tadic in charge visited Slovenia. It is certainly useful to establish good relations between the two countries, which have been quite dead since the familiar events of our immediate past and are once again established to happiness. It has certainly been pointed out at this visit that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, can somehow help to represent Serbia's interests in the institutions and bodies of the European Union. It is encouraging that there was a strong economic delegation, or I did not see in the report that concrete business would already take place, but the first contact is certainly important and this can be improved or upgraded in subsequent visits. Then, cooperation was established in the field of culture, including everything beautiful and good. Finally, the signing of the Social Agreement, which I agree once had to come to, has been the biggest success in solving some 10,000 people's issues, but in order to realize their rights from work, from paying contributions after these events took place in the territory of the former common country. Somehow, however, I can't help feeling that Slovenia was just giving. My question is: According to the principle of reciprocity, what did Slovenia get at this meeting? There are open questions in both directions. Slovenia also has some demands or open questions of a material nature to Serbia, and one would expect that, according to the principle of reciprocity, some concrete achievements or a solution to any matter that is current for Slovenia and could be resolved by the Serbian side in due course for mutual satisfaction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much for the question, Member. As you have already stated, this is a matter of a social security agreement between the two countries regulating pension and disability insurance, health insurance, occupational injury or illness, parental compensation and unemployment insurance, and it has a much broader content, such as dealing with the issue of Serbian pensioners only, to which your question relates in particular. The Social Insurance Agreement concerns issues concerning citizens of both countries, of course, this goes both ways. We also have cases in Slovenia where our citizens have lived and worked and paid in Serbia, and now they have the same rights under this agreement as the Serbian citizens who have paid us and have now returned and live in Serbia. It is necessary to distinguish between matters relating to inheritance, which was another part of the issue here, the former SFRJ, which concerns the state of Slovenia or Serbia and is the subject of an agreement on succession and between issues relating to citizens of both countries and their rights in the field of social security and subject to bilateral agreements. Thus, we cannot mix these two, because the question of inheritance follows a special arrangement, is not yet resolved as we know, and we hope that the future will be resolved. This Agreement is limited to those areas. As regards the issue of Serbian pensioners, it should be pointed out that, under the agreement, any right that a Serbian citizen will receive under this agreement must have a basis in the contributions paid in the Republic of Slovenia, which means, in other words, the right of every Serbian citizen who is entitled under the agreement to pension insurance in Slovenia will be conditioned and awarded in accordance with the contributions paid for pension insurance. In reverse, it is true for Slovenian citizens who have completed part of the pension age in the Republic of Serbia. The solutions resulting from the Social Insurance Agreement with Serbia are arranged in the same way or in the same way as with other countries of the former Yugoslavia, namely Croatia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this case, this Agreement shall not derogate in any way. The question of the conclusion of this bilateral social security agreement has been thus open for a long time in relations between the two countries, as it is and continues to cause problems until this agreement is implemented for citizens on both sides. Given the increased volume of trade, the movement of persons, the increasing migration, especially of Slovenian citizens to the Republic of Serbia for business reasons, let us not forget that there are hundreds of registered in Serbia, I think over a thousand companies of Slovenian citizens, it is even more necessary to conclude and ratify this agreement. And according to the assessment of the two governments, it puts the level of relations between the two countries which are even more important for the export economy to a higher level. In doing so, I should add that the issue of ownership of Slovenian companies in Serbia, which, as you know, has been a problem several times, has also been delayed in view of the progress of these negotiations, and we hope that it will be resolved as well for our companies. At the same time, investment projects in Serbia are being opened, which will be more accessible if this issue is regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Minister has already answered most of my questions. Maybe he's just thinking of something else. In Slovenia, only this atmosphere is what we have received for it, because it is very important how much it will cost Slovenia in implementing the agreement, how much Serbia. I would like to say that success and all these issues that you have solved or agreed to are bilateral. Perhaps it would seem a little more to turn around and abuse in this introductory tone, which has apparently been achieved at this meeting, the Serbian side to facilitate the resolution of the success issues that have begun. I'd like to open up some interesting stuff. There's probably something to say about the division of embassy. For Slovenia, interesting archives are, in particular, the archives of the common country, where some are very important country-specific documents for Slovenia, which are no longer interesting for other countries from Yugoslavia, such as the Omni Agreement and some others. And it would be in the light of these negotiations, not just a social agreement, so I said it would be more for the President of the Government, but still, so to speak, to obtain these documents. And somehow it's hanging out in the air, due to unnecessary resentment over the recognition of Kosovo, the lies in the air, the opening of the airline. It is still flying across the Danube to Belgrade or through another longer curve. This will probably need to be considered from a purely practical, economic relationship if they are to be upgraded, complemented, and complemented by a future meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much. You want an answer, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	I would like to thank the Member for these thoughts and initiatives. I would say, however, that probably the meeting that followed in Belgrade on the subject of success was also in the spirit of better cooperation that we have achieved with this agreement, and that all these issues have already been notified in the context of the succession negotiations. We believe we can arrange them in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Dear Minister! My question concerns the question that you have already discussed today, namely the Inspectorate and the functioning of the Inspectorate. The Slovenian Labour Inspectorate is established as a body of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Inspectorate shall carry out inspections of the implementation of laws and other regulations in areas such as labour relations, wages, participation of workers in the performance, safety and health at work. The range of operations of the labour inspectorate is broad, as is the area covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Every year, the work of the inspectorate was widely known in the National Assembly, but, above all, in the field of labour and safety of employees in these times of crisis, several events indicated that matters were not adequately resolved at the legislative level and, above all, at the enforcement level. In the event of the mass occurrence of unpaid social security contributions, it was pointed out that the labour inspectorate does not have the power to charge, pay or recover social security contributions. The issue of the effectiveness of inspections is also raised in public in cases that are somehow at the edge of employment, on the black side, non-payment of wages or their delay, on-the-job mobility, inadequate working conditions and so on. These are things that are hard to prove, especially because of the fear of employees from losing their jobs and other forms of bullying. Unfortunately, the employees feel that the inspectors are on the employer's side and not on the employee's side. In recent times, we have seen a number of documents, individuals, trade unions, which indicate that, especially in these times when workers are afraid for their jobs, employers for their earnings, there are more and more stressful situations. Let me just give you an example that has been presented to us by the Union of the Maribor Region, the Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia, which calls on the Ministry to respond and, above all, to take active action. We all know that the Labour Inspectorate is in charge of the first stage of the procedure, while the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs decides in appeals against the work inspector's decisions. The Offences Act also provides for the transfer of certain tasks dealt with by judges for offences to so-called criminal authorities, including the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. I want to know: Do you think the inspectors have sufficient authority in their work? Are these powers clear, unequivocal? Do you think there is an overstatement of authority? Do you think the workers are sufficiently aware of their rights in cases of employer misconduct? Do you think the Inspector's actions are satisfactory? In your opinion, how would you protect a worker from bullying? Do you think it would be necessary to strengthen the human resources inspectorate? And in the end, I ask you: What will you do about the inefficient functioning of the labour inspectorates? These are ineffective, and their operation comes from these documents that I have here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me point out that no inspection is likely to be able to ensure that every business entity and every citizen in Slovenia has an inspector. If we are looking at an inspectorate for work now, it works effectively in this area by about 80 inspectors, and in Slovenia you know that we have 160,000 business entities. This is not the time to complain about it, because in other areas we will have to regulate it. I have already mentioned that the legislation governing the work of the labour inspectorate as well as others concerning the payment of contributions is not regulated and regulated so that these inspection services can function better. However, how the labour inspectorate works, I would like to illustrate through one example, which you have also highlighted through the application of this union, that you will see that it is not so inactive. Over the last few years, our labour inspectorate received independence from the Syndicate, Comet d.o.o., and the Union of the Maribor Region against Comet several applications. Applications shall always be dealt with in accordance with these powers they have. Their statements have also been verified in the course of inspections and, apart from some irregularities, they have also acted in accordance with the powers of significant deviations in respect of compliance with the labour law in the designated company. They received their first application on 26 March 2004, when a written statement of the Syndicate Independence was sent to the Labour Inspectorate for information. With regard to the strike, 5 health and safety inspections were carried out in April 2004 and work relations. Between 2004 and 13 November 2009, a total of 31 health and safety inspections were carried out in the company concerned, of which 6 were carried out in this year alone. The deficiencies identified related to the provision of medical examinations and professional examinations for individual workers, the introduction of video surveillance and risk assessment for workers, the revision of the safety statement, personal protective equipment by providing professional safety tasks at work, the provision of transport to work, fixed-term employment contracts, the uneven distribution of working hours and the provision of work, the provision of services to workers contrary to regulations. In short, a whole bunch of problems. The last inspections were carried out on 6 October and 13 November of this year, in relation to the programme for the resolution of redundant workers and partial full-time subsidisation. It was found that the procedure for the termination of the employment contract for a large number of workers was carried out under the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, and that the collective agreement of Comet was applied to the determination of redundant workers. It was also found that the time-use record does not show an excess but rather an uneven distribution of working time, with the hour-time balance in the reference period showing that workers have a manoeuvring period. In relation to the irregularities identified, a total of 11 measures were issued from 2004 to 2009, namely 7 regulatory decisions and two decisions prohibiting the execution of the work process or the use of means of work to remedy irregularities. However, two proposals were also made to the guilty judge. In doing so, we point out that the employer has also followed the work and irregularities measures of the inspectorate. In accordance with Article 24 of the Inspection Act, the applicant has also been kept regularly informed of all the findings and measures made, and since Mr Milan Mesarič's role in the matter has been a source of dissatisfaction with the conduct of the labour inspectors. In this regard, we explain that a number of complaints have been received against the work of inspectors in the Comet case, which is being submitted only by the union concerned, and the Inspectorate has also ensured that at least two of the inspectors are now on the ground, so that no inappropriate actions are taken that the Inspectorate's Syndicate manifest. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	So, Mr. Secretary. You have been, I can say, very comprehensive in your answer, I must tell you this, but, among other things, you have also said the following that we cannot afford to have an inspector - you said that in one sentence and it bothered me a little bit. Why? Because, after all, it seems extremely important to me that we have inspection services to solve this problem, no matter how many inspectors come upon an individual or a citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who faces such or other problems. It is the duty of inspectors to detect these problems in accordance with the law and regulations and then to act in accordance with their rules and legislation. Lately, more and more things are happening that inspectors are really doing what you said, reviewing things and so on, but in the end, there's no epilogue. In the end, inspectors generally find that everything is fine, that nothing is wrong, and so on. And here's one thing, too, where it's beautifully written down, where the inspectors made a mistake, namely, in Milan. Here are written a bunch of things that clearly show that inspectors have not done their job properly. And that is what surprises me, too, that if the inspectors are not consistent in the performance of their work, it is obvious from what follows and from these comments or documents coming to the parliamentary group that the inspectors are not consistent enough in their work to detect irregularities and all that the employees are alerting to and so on. And that is why I think, Mr Minister, that the Ministry would expect it to react in this area, and if, as I have said before, the lack of inspectors is to prepare some appropriate solutions so that problems such as those found here in this document would not arise. I am confident that inspectors who are on the ground must carry out their work in accordance with the law and regulations to which they are entitled [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Once again, he would have been told by another man, who was not alone, that since the thirty-one inspections, the Inspectorate had taken 11 measures, in this particular case seven regulatory decisions, part of the decision prohibiting the management of the work process and two in the proposal to the Judge for Offences. The Inspectorate, as you can see from the measures when it considers that this is possible and that it is justified under the law. Of course, I agree that there are no excuses for the inspection service not to work. It has to work as well as it has to work intensely and better. That is why we must also improve the legal conditions, as I have already mentioned, and that is why we have assured her this year that it will be possible to increase the number of inspectors, regardless of the restrictions on employment in the public administration and in the public sector. In addition, this year alone, with the number of inspectors not yet increased, the number of cases dealt with by the inspectorate increased by 15% and the number of offenders by 30%. This means that the inspectorate also responds to the more critical situations that we have witnessed during the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	So, Mr Minister, we both find that the situation in this area is not sufficiently quality and I think it is good that we also have a broader debate on this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, on your proposal for the National Assembly to hold a debate on the response of Minister Svetlik, we will decide tomorrow in the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Milan Čadež to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary. For several years there has been talk in the public about the road connection between Gorenjska and Primorsko, this is the so-called fourth development axis. The project has produced several variants so far, the most famous are the variants of the north, which were more than one, and the variant of the south. In 2008, the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane proposed an additional variant, which is the connection of the Poljanje Valley to the Idrijce Valley. Then, last year, we also had the Ministry of the Environment and Space to present all the variants, and at your Ministry, we decided that the most appropriate variant of the south was the connection through Hotavelj, the Cod with the tunnel under Kladje and forward to Cerkno. Also this year, in Idrija, we had a discussion and presentation of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport on the possibility of further development of this fourth development axis. In June, on the municipal council of Gorenje vas - Poljane we hosted representatives of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, we were promised that in the early autumn months the presentation of the most suitable options and the choice will be the best. I want to know: Where is this project now? How does the placement of the most suitable routes to the space run?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	Mr. Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	First, I would like to thank the Member for the question. Let me say that the key elements on the fourth development axis represent the outskirts of the settlements of Gorenje Vas, Tolmin, Logatec and the new construction of the road at Cerkno - Hotavlje section. As far as Cerkno - Hotavlje section is concerned, you have already mentioned that because of the lack of alignment of the original variant in the local environment, this study complements the variants. I can say that in these days it will be completed and will present a new proposal with the most appropriate options, which can then also be the basis for the preparation of an idea project. I must say that before submitting the results of the completed study of the options to municipalities, the Ministry of Environment and its premises will be submitted in advance for the review, which is expected to be completed this year. As far as the preparation of spatial acts for the Gorenje Vas and Tolmin bypass is concerned, this is in the stage of the construction of ideas projects, while the installation of the fence in the village of Logatec has not yet begun. I see a problem here. As far as public disclosures are concerned, they are expected to take place in 2010, as they cannot be done before. I can tell you so much about the fourth development axis right now. This means that this improved variant is ready, it goes to the review, then we will also present it to the municipalities, and I hope that the variant will be such that the spatial placement of the fourth development axis can continue. But we are all aware that this fourth development axis is absolutely necessary, because it is not only a connection between Primorska and Gorenjska, but it is also a link between Soča and the centre, it is Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Chaddez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	In view of the fact that there is also a diocese on the fourth development axis, and I am sure that you are also well aware of the extent to which the diocese is located and is also building, it is essential in this area to amend the legislation itself, as confirmed by the High Representatives of the Ministry of Transport. But I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: When are you going to submit to the National Assembly a proposal to amend the legislation so that putting new routes into space will be significantly easier and that we will not get into such a situation, can I say, chaos that has been taking place for many years on the diocese?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Karl Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you for complementing your question. It is the so-called proposal of the Law on Line Buildings, that is, the placement of road, rail and other infrastructures. I must say that the law is ready, it is written, is coordinated within the Ministry and, in most cases, also with other departments, because the working group that prepared this law was composed of representatives of various departments such as, I don't know, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, so I am counting on the law to go into interdepartmental coordination and then to the Government. I am counting on the Government to adopt it by the end of this year and that it will be in the National Assembly at the beginning of next year, because it is an important law which should also allow for better European funding, because it is an infrastructure project co-financed by European funds. However, I must point out that this law will not, of course, be a magic wand in the sense that all these problems that we have solved will, perhaps even since 1990, be solved overnight. However, it is estimated that the law will significantly shorten procedures, on average for a year and a half. However, it will also allow faster use of European funds, because this pump will not be linked to the issue of a building permit, but when a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is carried out, it will be possible to start drawing. Since this law was only proposed under this heading so that the European funds provided in the financial perspective for the period 2007 to 2013 would not remain unused due to the slow deployment of space. Then there are the problems of public tendering in the broadcasting of works. We know how this thing can get stuck. Then it's also a loose ends problem. We found some solutions here. However, despite the fact that we will have such a law, there are still problems regarding the speed of these procedures, gold, as I said, public calls and complaints and in the area of obtaining the right to use on land.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the question I've already looked at before. [[...]] You didn't raise your hand. Please, Mr. Chad, yes, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	Given that this is a major problem and just the placement of new routes - I am sure that there will be several more new routes, I suggest that this is also being discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Milan Čadež to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk will ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In 2006 a public debate was held in the State Council on the issue of protection against erosion and criminals, in which it was found that protection against natural disasters, in particular the protection against the operation of various types of erosions and vertebrates outside the professional circles, is virtually silent, except when a natural disaster occurs. If we want to reduce the number of natural disasters or at least mitigate their consequences, we should plan to protect against erosion and storms at a time when nature is egregious and attention is not focused solely on the management of natural disasters. For more than 120 years, there has been a professional consensus in Slovenia that they need a specific approach in terms of the professional processing of the circulatory problem and in terms of the complexity and specificity of the implementation of the operational parts of the regulation of the circulatory and circulatory areas. The current regulatory regime has been different for several years, since it does not already take into account the traditional division into winding areas, as well as the lowland water areas. The experts are of the opinion that there should be a specific area of regulation, since this is a type of professional specificity to be taken into account in the regulation of crevices. However, in line with these expert opinions, a new regulation on how economic public services can be implemented in the field of water regulation and concessions of these public services should also be adapted. I ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Karl Erjavac, what measures are they planning to provide for comprehensive protection against the destructive effects of erosion and storms? Ter: How much funding is foreseen for these purposes in the 2010 and 2011 State budget proposals and in the country's development plans? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you for asking. In fact, it is a very pressing issue, especially when a natural disaster occurs. We've had some pretty bad cases, from the railways on, not to mention all the cases. The fact is, this area has been very neglected in the last 20 years. In fact, sufficient resources have not been allocated to implement measures to prevent such natural disasters. I must say that the awareness that climate change is also working in Slovenia shows exactly the accidents that are affecting us at this time. It's about the bad guys, it's about the erosions, it's about the reptiles, and so on, not to mention everything. With regard to the question raised by you that some experts believe that once again we should share the so-called winding areas and lowland areas, I must say that, at this point, such legislation is in place, that we do not know these divisions and that we want to take full action or completely regulate river basins. So it's more of a professional dilemma here, which is better. Personally, however, I am convinced that the best solution would be to have sufficient resources to actually implement these measures, whether it is weather areas or lowland areas. We know we have flooding in all segments. That's what it says, even when it comes to bad guys and even lowlifes, if we look at, I don't know, the Celje basin, the Celje area, we know what's happened to us. The problem I see is that there's always too little resources. If we look at the consequences of the storm in 2007, we can see that there was damage for more than €90 million, that a recovery programme of €51 million had been prepared, for example, that in 2008 we earmarked for this programme 11 million, in 2009 8 million for rehabilitation, to note that this programme was adopted in three years 2007 but will not be possible to do so. That is why we will also propose to extend the implementation of this programme, and we hope that we will also have resources from this title in the coming years to make the programme worth a little more than €50 million a reality. The funds we provide for these purposes are collected from various headings. One is this recovery program, and you actually know when the accident comes, then the state of action, and before that, we ask for the usual force of no harm to come to us. Some funds are made from the water fund, namely to implement State spatial plans for the construction of water infrastructure, to protect against the harmful consequences resulting from the operation of the waters. This is where 2.7 million euros were earmarked in 2009. A similar share will be ensured in 2010. In the area of construction and investment, the maintenance of water infrastructure was allocated EUR 8 million in 2009. In 2010, more will be earmarked, that is to say, €11 million. But regardless, all these funds are too small if you want to settle the situation in this area. It is true, however, that since 1990 there have been virtually no major investments, no major funds have been earmarked for the implementation of these measures. On this issue, I am confident that we will have a broader debate on Wednesday, as a decision has been taken on an extended debate on the water fund and also on these issues related to water regulations. I'm expecting a good, wide one on Wednesday. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Nevertheless, I think that we should also take into account future and new rules on traditional division into winding areas and lowland water areas, because these are specifics between, say, Idrijca or the upper part of Soča and Mura or Savo. At least the profession advocates this division. It is also correct to conclude that since 1990 this area has been explicitly neglected. If we look at the analysis of all state budgets 15 or 10 years ago, then we see that very little resources have been allocated to the regulation of winding-up areas and also for those things that regulate the protection against reptiles, erosion and so on. After all, these serious accidents also occurred: Log under Mangart, Railways and so on because this was not properly maintained. And let me say from my own experience, the only major planned systemic investment that wasn't due to some particular accident in Idrij - Cerkljanski was an investment in the 80s in the rehabilitation of the Idrijce River through the city. Then all the investments throughout Slovenia were practically, and also in our area, only the rehabilitation of some accidents, some floods that happened. So I propose, Mr Minister, because perhaps, as far as I have seen in the 2010 and 2011 budgets, there is not enough resources for this area to provide a few more resources for the 2010 and 2008 budget rebalancies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Education and Sport. We expect the minister to come to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you. Day 29. 10. I was sent with an answer to a question on co-financing of investments in primary education and pre-school education, concerning which I raise the following questions: Why the Ministry did not take into account the applicable Law on Community Financing, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 123/06 and the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 57/08 when determining the share of co-financing in the budget of investments included. It is clear from your reply and the draft budget that the shares and co-financing of investments from the state budget are determined under the Community Financing Act, the CSO-1, 2006, without taking into account the novels of the Community Financing Act, the CSO.1A, of 2008. Another time. Why did the Ministry not implement a call for co-financing of investments in pre-school education and primary education in 2009? And: Will both calls be made in 2010? In your reply, you only mention the implementation of the call for co-financing of investments in pre-school education, but not in primary education.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you so much for asking me that question. The Minister is not in the Chamber, so you probably want him to answer orally at the next meeting, and I can't help you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	I want that answer orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to both ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian public is very much monitoring the issue of the chimney service. For this reason, what will you do to regulate the dissatisfaction of citizens with the management of the chimney service in the Republic of Slovenia? I wonder, Minister Karl Erjavec, when will you begin to exercise control over the legal persons and their employees who have obtained concessions for the performance of chimney services? The results of the analyses also clearly show that the profits to concessionaires are to the greatest extent ensured by their monopoly position, the prices of certain services such as emissions measurement, which are not based on real standards, and are hidden in various poorly justified package offers of services and the extent of services that concessionaires provide inadvertently and arbitrarily when they fail to comply with laws. It's a violation of laws, an abuse of regulations and a price list. If the Ministry carried out appropriate controls here, the prices of services could also be more user-friendly. Mr. Minister Franci Križanič, Minister of Finance, I ask you: When will your services begin to control concessionaires who, under contracts concluded, should show significantly more gross traffic than they show? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer. First Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	I thank the Member for the question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Of course, everyone has only two and a half minutes or you have five minutes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	We made a deal. Dear Member, thank you for asking. I must say that you are not only asked by citizens, but also by Members at each meeting of the National Assembly, asking what is the matter with these chimneys. I must say that no one is satisfied with chimneys: not chimneys themselves, not states, not users. I must also say that I am sorry that I was not Minister for the Environment in the previous term, because I certainly would not have signed these concession contracts, which are now signed and cannot be broken because they are valid for 8 years and it is very difficult to come up with a new solution to this problem. I am convinced that the public service, as organised at this time, is not well organised, and I must say that we will take two types of measures - short-term to remedy this situation. I don't know why there has been no surveillance since 2004, why the price list last changed in 2006 and 2007. This is incomprehensible to me and I agree with you that some companies have a monopoly in this area. What is even more interesting is that these companies, which have a monopoly position, display losses. So I don't know if it's going to be necessary for me to meet with the Minister of Labour to introduce a social programme for these companies. And I can give examples: a net income of EUR four hundred and forty-four thousand, a net loss of EUR one hundred and seventeen thousand; a net income of EUR seven hundred, a net loss of EUR one hundred and twenty-nine thousand. These are information that is incomprehensible to me and that shows that this situation is completely disorderly. I must say that as far as the pricers are concerned, a new pricelist will arrive in ten days, where we will evaluate each service accurately, and the actual user will also pay for the service that has been done. Not in the same way as now that only the maximum prices are fixed and then it is up to him to decide how much he will charge the service he provides. As far as these checks and controls are concerned, I must say that we are preparing intensively for these controls to be done. But not only the quality of the service, we will not only monitor it, but we will also monitor how the concession contract is being implemented, how the terms of the concession contract are being fulfilled, whether in fact all the employees that are recorded in the concession contract and so on. I am sure that the services of the Minister of Finance will be happy to take part in this monitoring, according to this data. So I must say, as far as the chimney service is concerned, we still have a lot of work to do. What I said about short-term measures: change in prices, then increased control, maybe some concession will be withdrawn. However, as far as long-term action is concerned, it will have to examine the profession to see whether the concession scheme is really the most appropriate for the public service of fire safety. I must say that if I go to the field, that, in particular in local communities, there are opinions that this service should return at local level, but I must say that we have problems because these concession contracts have been signed, are valid for 8 years, we cannot tear them apart except for false reasons. However, if we were to enter another system prematurely, these concessionaires would want severe damages, even though I do not know in terms of losses, how would we enforce some of the profits and profits from this title if we went to some compensation lawsuits. Thus, this area of chimneys is a major challenge.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ribič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have not heard an answer from both of you. I'm not entirely satisfied. Perhaps I'd like to ask Mr. France Križanič a further question. The indicative annual service for one equivalent device is €55. If the concessionaire has a contract for 3,000 equivalent devices, it should annually display over €160,000 gross traffic. The actual data are, of course, quite different. And Mr. Minister Erjavec. You've been working for over a year. There are also jobs that have been done before, so I suggest you start your activities. There is no need to say that you have too few people to control because you have documentation at the Ministry that proves that individuals have deliberately violated the regulations because they do not have the appropriate number of workers on every 2,000 equivalent combustion plants. Of course I'm asking: What is the measure that will prevent smokers from using the price list of chimney services if they spend ten minutes on their work - that would be 10 times 0.44 euros, that is 4.4 euros - and charges the service in the package First Review of the new combustion plant of 78 euros, and a 10-minute survey was carried out and the new burner number written out? Sort of. Then I'd like to ask: What concrete measures will be taken by the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the double payment of emission criteria? All users of gas and oil combustion plants have annual service of the combustion plant, including the measurement of smoke emissions. The gas service bill in 2008 was €42 and the user has to pay the chimney again to measure the smoke emissions of €35.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	I find it difficult to answer these questions why the 2006 price lister foresees such anomalies. Maybe we should ask the previous minister, who just accepted such a price list. I answered your questions, I told you that within 10 days at the latest, there will be a new price list that will eliminate these anomalies. In fact, the chimney will only be able to charge for real services, not as before, that the price list was so complicated that no one understood it. I don't think the former Minister fully understood him either. Whether he was abused here by his associates or not, I don't know what you're implying - that's hard for me to answer. We will prepare a new price list that will be clear, which will be transparent, which will eliminate these anomalies. But I also replied to you about the business of individual chimney companies. We're going to examine these anomalies, and it's also unclear to me that at incomes, for example, you have a million 700,000 losses, and we know how many combustion plants there are, how many they have to examine, what the price, how much they charge. That's how the anomalies are actually defined here. It's true that I've been a minister for a year now, and it's true that in the first year we've been solving these things. However, a key sin was committed when these concession contracts were signed and signed in such a way that these concessionaires were more secure than the State. All the provisions are such as to protect them more than to look into the strategy of protecting a brown bear or protecting a wolf in our presence. Here certain things will have to be changed, or users will continue to be dissatisfied, Members dissatisfied, the ministry dissatisfied, the country dissatisfied and, in the end, even chimney smokers are not satisfied. I think this concept is wrong, and these things will have to be put on a new footing. But I must warn you that there are very strong interests here, very strong pressures, which you may well know more than I do, given that you are asking such a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u217	Given that the problem is indeed a major one, the real problems are great, so I propose that this issue be discussed in general in the National Assembly. I'd like to find out then: How can a fine differ in three of the same offences? Once is €200 and twice is €600, with Mrs Darje Dolenc's statement that the fine of €200 is prescribed for this offence, which we could read in the evening of June 19th. I would also like to know at that time: How do you comment on the 300% increase in the number of inspectors' applications? There were 534 applications throughout 2008 and 1,500 by 19 June 2009. By the end of the year, a 560 - percent increase and an approximately 84 - percent increase in the fines imposed would have been similar. 108 fines were imposed throughout 2008 and 99 by 19 June 2009. A similar increase by the end of the year would then be about 200%. And so on. That is why I want a debate to take place in the National Assembly. In the meantime, the question is: What has been done so far against the floods on the left bank of Drava between Maribor and Ptivo? I promised I'd ask you as long as this issue was resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Janez Ribič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Finance to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. Thank you. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question. The Minister of Health is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, given that the Minister is not answering today, I would like to ask for an oral response at the next meeting. However, my question concerns the non-implementation of the contract, which was signed between the Ministry of Health and the Red Cross of Slovenia, when, on 8 March 2000, a contract was signed in the form of a notary record to replace land between Valdoltra and land in Ljubljana, because they tried to pursue their interests in this way, both the Red Cross and, of course, the Ministry. Since the contract itself was not fully implemented at the time, it was written in the annex itself or in the contract itself that it would try to finalize the matter in the form of an annex signature so that this contract could be fully implemented. Unfortunately, this annex has not been signed in all the following years, nor has the final solution and such a contract, or such valuations, which were made for land at the time, been opposed by the State's defence. Since this agreement has not been reached, in 2006 the Red Cross brought an action against the Ministry of Health and demanded that the Ministry of Health repay these lands in the form of compensation of almost EUR 900,000. In this regard, I am interested, given that Minister Miklavčič was also President of the Red Cross for some time, but now that he is Minister of Health, I am interested because I have not observed this information: Has this problem been solved? Has the judgment been handed down here? Are things open? If it was realized: in what way? I do not think it would be right for taxpayers to apply or seek compensation in any way that the Ministry of Health should also pay the Red Cross. For the right way is to make assessments here and that this deal is properly concluded for the benefit of both parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Your question will be answered orally by the Minister at the next meeting. Alexander Zorn will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Your Honor Minister. Siol is Telekomov and Telekom is from the minister for a short time. Since 2007, Telekom Slovenije has sent advertisements to residents in Gabrovka, Dola pri Litija and Polšnik with the order of its various services: Siol's broadband internet, telephone and television. Many of Gabrovka’s townspeople, Dola near Lithia and Polšnik cheered up the ad and rushed with an order. However, following the award of the order, Telekom Slovenije stated in a series that they did not have the possibility of using these services. Since this is 2007 we have warned them a little bit, but the whole decision fell in 2008 - there was nothing, of course. Recently, however, people in Gabrovka, Dol near Lithuania, and Polšnik were rejourned, as it quickly spread to the country that access to Siol’s broadband Internet, telephone, and television was enabled. Telekom Slovenije even called the inhabitants of this area himself and offered them all possible services in order to obtain as many users as possible. However, the joy of the inhabitants again quickly passed, and this time the conduct of the people broke out the bottom of the court. People sign a petition because they have sent contracts to certain countries that Telekom Slovenije cannot implement and then told others that the centre is too busy, that there is no cable. Thus, according to our information, the villages of Tihabo, Brglez, Pecice, Lukovec ob Gabrovka, Gorenje and Lower Jelenje, Jelenska Reber na Dolach are written off. Nova Gora and Javorje are too far away, and almost half of the people in Polšnik do not have access to Siol's broadband internet, telephone and television. And now the question. Or is it then, Mr. Minister, that Siol seduces these people if he sends them contracts and then informs them that he will not do so? What are you gonna do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u222	Please, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you so much for asking. Now the introduction was vivid: Siol is from Telekom, Telekom is from the minister; I am glad that it was not said by which minister. Reliable not from the point on which the question is addressed, not in the literal or the transmissive sense of the word. In fact, if you have closely followed the not boring, very varied debate on the amendments to the Law on State Administration, it has been repeatedly explicitly repeated that this amendment was adopted before summer, transferred to the field of electronic communications and rejoined again with the field of information society, which had previously been at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, while all the competences and competences associated with economic companies operating in this area, such as Telekom's State-owned company, remain at the Ministry of Economy. Nevertheless, until the establishment of a potential State-owned asset agency, the National Assembly will decide to do so, as all these operations with these State investments will be transferred to this agency. However, the question you are asking is relevant. I would not have let myself down so much in terms of doing a particular company again, because I do not have any more precise data on it, because in principle I cannot obtain them as a competent minister for my field. Surely this is not, I can say, a good practice that would benefit from the reputation of the company that people use for other services, these traditional, classical ones, and they must be put to a disadvantage by such offers. It is true, however, that by joining the Directorate for Electronic Communications, the Ministry has also acquired the task and competence to ensure the construction of broadband networks in Slovenia, particularly in rural areas, in the area of so-called white foxes. This is also the aim of a smooth European fund, which has been used in one part in the past, leaving some 45 million euros remaining to be spent in 2010 and 2011 through public tenders. As the minister responsible for this and who has a strong intention of using this means wisely and deliberately, because I think that for the regional development of Slovenia it is extremely important that young people remain in these places, so that the industry will remain there and develop in a transparent way and in a way that will not play the rules of the game. But if we look forward. As part of the project on the construction, management and maintenance of a broadband network of electronic communications in local communities, financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the municipalities informed the Ministry - earlier this was the Ministry of Economy - of whether there was a commercial interest in the construction of broadband networks in them. This information was obtained from companies, for example, one such was Telekom, including some other cable operators, and they made a statement in this regard to the local community and the Ministry also checked directly with operators. On the basis of these proposals and these subsequent audits, two lists have been created at the Ministry of the Economy - this record is now at our Ministry - under the Directorate for the Information Society: a list of municipalities, so-called areas of white foxes, where there are no broadband networks and there is also no commercial interest on the part of companies to build such a network on an autonomous economic initiative. Well, these white foxes are meant for these public funds. And another list of municipalities where white foxes are, but it was obtained from companies, that they have a commercial interest in building a network there. The municipality or the area referred to by you is a white fox, and there is no commercial interest in the region of Gabrovka and Dola near Lithuania, as I received in the previously announced question for these areas. It's a white fox, but it's also an express commercial interest. In one case recently, I think the congregations of Dole, while for the municipality of Gabrovko this announcement was made more than two years ago. Within 24 months, the operator was supposed to keep his promise. He didn't do it. The law didn't provide for sanctions. The new Law on Electronic Communications, which will be dealt with briefly in the National Assembly, will impose sanctions here on an operator who will not keep this promise and will issue this forecast for the purpose of building a network in some area only in order to prevent competition from entering this area and giving this service to people, we will sanction [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] By withdrawing these rights and by releasing the possibility of these municipalities running for new tenders. [[...]] So I hope that these congregations or those areas will now receive these necessary services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I ask you to complete your answer, please, Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm happy with your answer, but I'd like to add something else. Regardless of the complicated competences between your ministry and the Ministry of the Economy, I would recommend that if I were to give Siol a serious warning, because if we already have a petition with more than 350 signatures, the citizens there did not lie about getting contracts and offers. So someone's making fun of them. Besides what you said, they are eventually nearby places in Ljubljana, but they are so remote if they do not have the internet. And it is true that 70% of the population from this area, at least from the area of Lithuania, is in the service in Ljubljana. This means that young people are leaving and, of course, this is not good. Young people are people of the Internet and we all kind of want them to stay in areas where this would be accessible and then we could normally do our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I would add only that relations are not complicated. They were before, maybe that's why it happened because in one ministry, in the Ministry of the Economy, there was a conflict interest: the interest of taking care of businesses - a particular business company of Telekom in this case - which is in the interest of limiting competition, and on the other hand of the ministry, which should - the same ministry - care for the provision of services to all citizens and citizens. We split it up. As a result, relations became clean. The Minister for the Economy is well placed to provide Telekom and ours is to provide services to citizens under the same conditions. We are planning a broadband service, if I can take advantage of this issue of yours, in this mandate to qualify as the universal service of the Republic of Slovenia, which we must provide to everyone. This is a major objective, and we will subject our priorities, the resources available, and additional resources to this. However, I will inform the competent Minister of Lachovnik of the warning on this particular case, so that he can act and act in accordance with his powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole will ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry of Transport as a departmental ministry, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs and Development, shall coordinate projects of development axes, transport links in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, to make the most of the available European means for transport infrastructure. As an example, on 24 June 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the preparation of documentation for the adoption of the three national development plans, for the project of the third development axis, the southern part, which is for the region of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, which has the largest Slovenian exporter, Revoz, d.d., Novo mesto, and remained extremely important companies such as Krka, Adria, TPV, Kolpa, Danfos and Iskra. Today, high unemployment rates in the area of the White Land, ranging from more than 12.3% in the Municipality of Metlika to more than 13% in the municipality of Črnomelj and 14.8% in the municipality of Semič, are just a quality transport link, one of the basic conditions for the development of the area and the economy of the White Land for the preservation of larger demographic settlements, as well as Bela krajina - like Pomurje urgently needs development support and assistance. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What are the priorities and timetables for the preparation of project documentation for land purchases and the construction of transport links of development axes in the Republic of Slovenia, especially for those projects for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already confirmed the preparation of documentation for the adoption of the national local plans? This is already a coordinated route of transport links, mainly due to the maximum use of available European means of transport infrastructure. I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you very much. May I have your answer, Minister Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you, President. Your Honor. Allow me first to give a brief overview of the development axis activities, both on the third, third A and on the fourth development axis; since you are asking me about priorities, this is now crucial. On the northern part of the third development axis, from highway 1 to Dravograd, the most appropriate variant of the route is being optimized, and on the far north section between Otiški Vrho and Holmec, the road is being designed for transport and construction. In the middle part, an alternative to economically unjustified variants is being drawn up, which will explore the possibilities of transport and functional modernisation of existing roads in the maximum use of road space. On the southern part of the third development axis, professional bases are being prepared, intensively at the section from A2 to Malin, including the tunnel under Gorjanci, followed immediately by the section against Metlika and Vinica. On the third A development axis, the Škofljice bypass is spatially placed and the professional bases for such facilities are prepared in the Great Lašice and Ribnica. The fourth development axis includes the Tolmina bypass, the Gorenje village bond and the road section between Cerkni and Hotavljavi. According to the Ministry of the Environment and Space deadlines, which is actually responsible for what I am responsible for today, i.e. for spatial placement of state projects, provision is made for the adoption of regulations on State spatial plans, namely on the third development axis - north, state road from motorway connection 1 to Dravograd, until February 2012; third development axis south, i.e. state road from connection A2 to connection to Malina, July 2012; fourth development axis, tolmin railway - December 2010. The deadlines set out on certain development axis projects in spatial placement procedures require their definition. However, for certain sections where additional professional bases for the preparation of State spatial plans are being prepared, there is no basis for their preparation. As far as priority is concerned, if you allow: 3, 3.A and 4 development axis are the routes included in the government strategy from 2007 to 2023. The only route, this is the northern part of the third development axis, is in an additional national programme, and this is why weighting must also be understood because it is the only document that is actually a document of the National Assembly and which binds to this extent more than that government document. On the basis of the investment documentation prepared, the value of investments in this road infrastructure is two and a half billion. Given that it will be difficult to build in the future, at least not as much as we are to date, we need to find new resources. In this we are working intensively, looking for ways in which public-private partnerships could possibly build the entire scope of the third development axis, including 3A and 4 and in this way solve what is inconceivable, financing. Indeed, by now - I have repeatedly stressed this in this high assembly - we have spent about four billion and a half on highway programmes and of these four billion and a half of the resources spent we have been in charge of the DARS so that it is difficult to continue to be in debt. Now we have two and a half billion more waiting on the road sections, which have not even been defined as toll sections so far. So we need to redefine a lot more actually the construction of these sections. The dynamics must therefore be based on the country's macroeconomic capabilities and, of course, on the fact that this country - finally I say - is also investing in rail infrastructure. If I give a comparison, in Spain they invest 1.5% of gross national product per year in rail infrastructure and have excellent railways, and now that we have directed a practical majority or almost all of the funds into rail infrastructure, we allocate 0.7% in 2010 about 0.8% in 2011. I am confident that we will find funding resources to successfully move these projects forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u232	Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, that is precisely why I asked you this question, but in some ways you have already answered me, but in part you did not answer me that question, which I somehow wanted an answer. In fact, for the third development axis, the north part, the south part, if I compare it: the north part is still in the process of optimisation, so there is nothing in the whole, uniform, but it will somehow be a priority, in February 2010. The southern part, which is uniform from July last year until 2008, is foreseen for July 2012. I must say, when one thinks, there is a conflict in terms of prioritizing. You have explained why to further involve the northern part and that the Government's decision is not such a level that this matter would be dealt with as a matter of priority, if I have understood you correctly. That's why we need to understand that. If there's only a half-year difference between the two of us - then that's fine. But when you mentioned the railway infrastructure, because I was talking about the area of the southern part of Dolenjska and the White Region, this is the area from which I come from, it is also not fortunate for railways to be in this corridor and to be added as a priority in any renovation or update. Let me say that even in connection with what people are warning me about, Slovenia and Croatia have even cut two or three routes daily against Slovenia to Ljubljana. It would be good if, in the area of the third development axis, transport connections also saw that as many European funds as possible for these purposes and that we, too, in southern Slovenia, were better connected to the capital than today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The Minister is away, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the Minister is away, please give me an answer at the next meeting. You boasted about the success of the first year of the ministry days ago, Mr. Minister. Perhaps the year has been a success for those who work in agriculture and agriculture from Ljubljana and the Ministry. In Slovenia, however, there is no farmer who would be satisfied with 100% lower sales prices of crops than in last year. Farmers, on the contrary, beat the bell’s side justly. The Ljubljana Institutes and Agencies really have a lot of money to get to farmers, so there is a lot of satisfaction with agricultural policy in the capital, but there is not. As a result of this and catastrophic policy of the Government towards the farmer and domestic food production and because of the government's strong support for food traders and processors, the Slovenian farmer found himself in a catastrophic income situation and was in great distress. There has never been such an unfavourable relationship between the farmer’s selling prices and the final prices for the consumer, or between the prices of fertilisers and other repromaterials and crop prices. This year, milk prices fell from 35 to 19 cents, wheat by 40%, and the price of first-class table apples fell from 40 cents to 20 cents, and apples fell from 13 cents to 4 cents. Also the buying-in price of Questionnaires and Pigs. At the same time, prices for consumers have not fallen but are even rising. Huge profits are accumulated by food processors and traders, so I ask you: Why does the government destroy or not protect the Slovenian farmer from unfair competition? For example, at this time, we are being imported by traders and consumers are enjoying last year's apples from Poland and Hungary, which are harmful to health due to too long storage. Why not also protect domestic producers with certain organic taxes on imported foods, as other European Union countries do? Why is food encouraged for the consumer when the farmer for the food sold gets 100% or even less money? Is the fact that some large traders are closely linked to the ruling policy and their customers are also financially supportive?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic will ask the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. This minister's gone, too. Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Since there is no minister, I ask for an oral answer at the next meeting. There was a lot of talk in the National Assembly in this mandate, as well as in the previous one, about the poor use of European both structural and cohesion funds. In the expectation that Slovenia will be a net recipient for at least a little longer, the truth is that we are net payers, which at some point we will also be justified, but now we are not, and in fact because of the crisis that is coming. I will quote first from the document of this government of May The implementation of the anti-crisis measures of the RS Government on the EU fund draw-up project, which states that "in order to maintain investment in the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, their investments in human resources, in cooperation with the management body, the ministries have intensified their activities." And if we look at the conference of the development dialogue, it says that in terms of drawing up European funds, the preparation of projects at the state level, the minimised state contributions, the maximised contributions from the European Union will be accelerated and that there will be some condition to have projects prepared a year earlier. It's not like that either. Finally, calls were made for calls for regional development programmes. Regional development institutions have met, prepared and drawn up development programmes, promised calls to be made public two and a half months ago, or three months ago, and from nowhere. I am speaking specifically: the secondary network of the sewage network, the energy renewal of the educational and security institutions, and I will not mention what is important. It's important! He's late! It's not! I therefore ask the Minister: Why are there still no promised calls for the use of European funds? Secondly: When, however, will these calls be based primarily on the planned regional development programmes and the planning of the budgets of the municipalities - so when will these projects be given? If they are already late, and if there are serious and major problems with the lack of projects, be aware that it is not the congregation’s fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Guido Kres will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we strongly condemn the recent bombing of the District Court judge in Radovljica. At the same time, we express our concern about the current growing trend in criminal activities, which are likely to be subject to organised criminal associations. In doing so, we believe that the public has not been sufficiently clear about the grave attack on the Slovenian legal order in this case. The attack was carried out purely on the basis of the Sicilian mafia, it was a revenge act aimed at hurting a minor, in this case a child of a member of the judiciary, and in children we are all the most vulnerable. The purpose of this attack is to intimidate a member of the judiciary and all members of the judiciary. The judiciary, however, is a fundamental institution of the rule of law. The past act may have inconceivable consequences for the Slovenian justice system, which is the basis of the rule of law. In the event that this case of an attack remains unexplored, this may be a dangerous precedent for similar events in the future. That is why we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that it is of paramount importance that the culprits be sought and convicted, since otherwise we cannot expect a full professional and independent work from our judges in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party, we fear that Slovenia is slowly, but surely transforms into a country where criminal associations are intimidated and terrorised by both the public and the employees of the various branches of the state apparatus. The recent arrests of blackmailing groups in Murska Sobota, which have blackmailed and served their lives from entrepreneurs, also show that Slovenia has begun to face a completely different concept of crime. That's why we're asking you, Madam Minister: Or what measures do you plan to take in view of the growing trend in serious criminal activities? At the same time, we expect that all investigations into the bombing will also be subject to the responsibility of all the leaders of the investigation services. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u240	Please, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u241	Dear President, honourable Member. I absolutely agree with you that this attack on a judge in Radovljica must be taken with all seriousness and, in fact, with the words of Minister Zalar, the attack on the constitutional democracy of our country must be seen even more seriously from this point of view than the bombings that are a serious crime. However, I absolutely cannot agree, on the other hand, that the response was not clear enough and loud enough. We have publicly condemned both the Ministry of the Interior in my person and colleague Zalar, and an important message has also been given to the public by having a joint press conference with the Minister of Justice and the Director-General of the Police. In addition, the Slovenian police are extremely serious about this case. It assures me that with the highest level of responsibility they are investigating this action, they have been doing practically 24 hours a day since the case took place. In order to investigate this case, a special working group of criminals was established, consisting of criminalists from the Kranj Police Administration, the Directorate of Criminal Police at the General Police Administration and other police administrations, which is why a large number of people are working on this case. Of course, the police also immediately began protecting the judge and her family. It's about 24-hour physical and technical protection. However, despite the fact that this is a serious attack, which is not so large in our country, fortunately, it is still important to stress that Slovenia is still a safe country, including, in particular, when compared with the other members of the European Union, that we are not even talking about the countries of South-Eastern Europe. We must not forget that such acts have taken place before, from homicides, bombings, to extortions, there have been even more of them than there are now. In this area, the best effective response and effective detection of perpetrators is because this will be the best prevention so that something like this will not be repeated. And that's what we do. The police are investigating such matters with all their expertise and care. We must not forget that the last two bombings were extremely quickly investigated, very effectively, and also blackmail in Murska Sobota has achieved similar rapid epilogues and many other such cases are either in the field of organised crime or in the field of drug trafficking or with people. The police have already held large-scale press conferences about them. It is also true that in Slovenia, now that it is entangled in a wider circle, even under the influence of globalisation, we can detect the occurrence of different crimes that we have sometimes been more accustomed to in other countries that are more burdened with crime. This must be acknowledged, especially in the field of organised crime. In the criminal police, several projects are under way, with which we want to institutionally and methodologically upgrade the system of successful fight against organised crime, to modernise criminal intelligence analysis, to establish a more effective multi-disciplinary approach in detecting more complex forms of crime, particularly in the field of organised or economic crime and corruption within the framework of the National Investigation Office. Inside it will be not only financial and economic crimes, but also other, worse forms of crime, as well as organised and international crime. I have said this several times today, but I can remind you once again that it opens the door to the National Investigation Office as early as January 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. The people who live along the G1/1, which is driven through settlements from Maribor to Ptuj, are one of the roads that has been the most burdened road in the last 20 years by both freight and passenger traffic. Every day it carried this road through the municipalities of Miklavž, Starša, Hajdin, Ptuj, more than 25 thousand vehicles, and in the peak of the season more than 50,000 vehicles in one day; at least one third of the heavy trucks that destroyed the road and the homes of the inhabitants living on the road. Man’s possessions and health were destroyed, as noise, vibrations and gases consumed both health and the properties of the people living on the road. Mr Minister, as I am aware of, you are aware of the case, because the inhabitants of these places, through a civil initiative, have turned to you in the hope that you are one of those advocates of equality before the law and constitution, who will also listen to the problems faced by the people of the country. It was both material and intangible damage and it would be appropriate to reimburse all the victims in the form of compensation paid. The State Advocate in Ptuj received a letter from the legitimate representative of Zvonka Kolška for an out-of-court settlement on 15. 9. 2009, to which she replied only to the intervention of the Attorney General's Office 29. Ten. 2009 requested by the legal representative. The reply to the defence in Ptuj was very unusual, as they rejected the proposal as a whole. As I am aware, Mr Minister, you said in July before the press that you would act in the event that the State is threatened by a lawsuit and that any such case will try to resolve itself on an out-of-court basis. What will you do if you violate article 72 of the Constitution, which says that everyone has the right under the law to a healthy living environment? The law also lays down the conditions under which and to what extent the cause of the damage is liable to be compensated. The case from Pomur is the same and was saved for mutual satisfaction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u244	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr Majhenič, for the question. First of all, I would like to explain that the Ministry of Justice was informed on 24 September this year by the State Attorney's Department in Ptuj about applications for noise and other emissions on the G1-1 main road. This claim was lodged on behalf of the injured by the lawyer mentioned in Maribor. In view of the fact that these claims related to the area of road transport for which the Ministry of Transport and not the Ministry of Justice is responsible, we have dismissed the matter from the Ministry of Transport to give appropriate guidance to the State Defence in accordance with the applicable law. From the information provided by the State Attorney's Office regarding this issue, we conclude that currently, on the external section of Ptuj, 141 files, so-called pre-justice cases, containing a total of 289 claims by injured persons claiming compensation for damage caused by the alleged excessive environmental burden caused by transit traffic in the settlements of Rosnja, Zlatoličje, Loka, Hajdoše, Skorba, Slovenia, Vasa, Parents and Miklavž in Dravsko Field. According to the State's position, these are claims that must fully respect the rules of general civil law and, in particular, the specific provisions of compensation. Just because it is not clear whether all these assumptions are already fulfilled in each of these individual cases, it is not possible to conclude at this stage, according to the State Defence of Settlements. This does not mean that they will not be able to be concluded further. For this reason, I believe that equality before the law will be ensured for all, including the applicants mentioned above. This equality before the law is ensured by equal treatment of approximately the same claims and different treatments. As far as I'm aware, in the case of claims made by residents on the G-1 road, the State's Attorney's Office has not yet been served. For each injured person, information on the legal relevant facts, such as distance from the road, actual stay, co-contribution of the injured person, age of the injured person, and so on, is specifically needed for the conclusion of any settlement. Thus, it is only in this way that the basis of the compensation liability can be verified and the possible amount of the damage caused can then be assessed. I was addressed to a letter from the Miklavž Civil Initiative for Ptujska cesta, requesting a shorter meeting. And I will meet with this civil initiative and its representatives because, as Minister of Justice, I have been working since the beginning of my term of office to promote the use of a peaceful way of resolving disputes. If it turns out that the applicants have actually suffered damage from traffic on this road, I will endeavour to resolve these disputes in a calm manner, i.e. by concluding the appropriate settlement. Once again, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Transport has the final word in this case. But there's something else I'd like to point out. In the future, as Minister of Justice, I will be able to do more to resolve disputes in a negotiated manner where the State party is in a dispute, because tomorrow the National Assembly will adopt - and I hope that it will also adopt - the Act on Alternative Dispute Resolution, where one article provides for a special duty of the State Defence to agree to mediation in all cases where appropriate. However, if he considers that the matter is not appropriate for the conclusion of an agreement, he must request a decision from the Government. And I invite you, Commissioner, to support this marriage tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The problem is exactly the same with the pomurska where the road G1/3 Maribor - Lendava was treated, but in this case people were taken into account and listened to the problems they were facing. Letter sent to the Attorney General's Office on Ptuj 15. 9. 2009 and to which the Advocate General replied only after the intervention of the Advocate General’s Attorney General’s Office was delayed, as the legal 30-day period was exceeded for 14 days, with the reply that the non-external agreement was rejected in its entirety as unfounded. An action has therefore been brought against the State of Slovenia for violation of Article 72 of the Constitution of Slovenia. It is undeniable that in this case, the Advocate General of Ptuj has clearly violated the legal deadline and the decision to attempt an out-of-court settlement. I'm asking: What will you do in this case? How will you guarantee the rights of citizens who are guaranteed by the Constitution? It does not say anywhere that those who live in Podravje are not granted the same rights as those who live in Pomurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u249	The comparison with a similar case, allegedly similar to the case in Prekmurje, could be premature at the moment, because in the prekmurje case it was a situation where an action/multiple actions were brought, where one of them was then dealt with in a sample procedure where it "traveled" all trials at all instances, all the way to the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court then by a judicial decision established all the disputed questions concerning the basis and also the height, established criteria for the courts to apply in similar cases and only then there was a mass settlement of the State which is still pending. Practically at each meeting of the Government, we are considering proposals for judicial or out-of-court settlement. In such cases, it makes sense, in particular, because even in this complete case that you have highlighted, not all the actual circumstances have been demonstrated. Among other things, it will probably be necessary to demonstrate the impact of the expert opinions and, similarly, to the principle of the sample case, to bring the matter to that stage when it is possible to make the same decision in other cases. This is something that our law expressly also foresees that, when the actions are more and relate to the meaningful same factual and legal situation, one of them solves as a sample, leads to jurisdiction, while the others wait, meaning that the parties do not have unnecessary costs of justification, in which case the State does not, and then, depending on the outcome of the sample case, a decision is taken whether or not the settlement is made, and if it is a matter of what settlement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Willi Trofenik will ask the Minister for Environment and Space. Please, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The issue of the construction of broadband networks was already addressed in this room today when a colleague of Dr. Zorn asked. Mr. Minister, I will bring this matter back to life further under the authority of your Ministry. It is undoubtedly positive that Brussels has allocated EUR 45 million to the Republic of Slovenia to cover so-called white foxes. At first, we had problems with the distribution of these funds, and now there are problems, or not to say, of illegality in the construction of the projects themselves or in the execution of the projects. I'm asking you: Does the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the issuance of building permits, since it issues a direct ministry, not an administrative unit, for the construction of broadband networks, respect the Law on the Construction of Buildings, in particular from the point of view of Article 56, which means proof of the availability of land or of domestic contracts, and Article 66(4)? In particular, I am referring to a review of whether audits of projects have been carried out, as the law requires.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u253	I thank the Member for the question. I must say that the Ministry of Environment and Space does not issue building permits, so the issue of respect for the Construction Act is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Trofenik to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you. I'm very surprised at that response, Mr. Minister. It is not issued by the administrative unit, which is your extension, issued by the security authority in your composition, in a broader sense by the Ministry. I have the information that building permits have been issued for projects where the investor does not have more than one quarter, I repeat, one quarter of the required service declarations or contracts. Since the determination of white foxes was carried out by a company owned by the state and whose interest was different from it should have been, the construction is carried out by a firm which is a daughter, that I do not appoint her here, which obviously has a special interest. Of course, I would expect from different departments that this problem is taken seriously by forces because, while it is very expensive to stand in Brussels, it can. As far as I am concerned, there are reports of irregularities in the consumption and use of these funds in the context of complaints already in Brussels. And now I'm, I'm not saying, appalled at your answer. I expect you to coordinate and give us an appropriate response, thus preventing us from looking for an answer to this issue outside the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u257	Thanks for the extra question. I don't understand why you're upset if I tell you that the Ministry of the Environment doesn't issue building permits when it comes to the construction of broadband networks. I must say that the Law on Electronic Communications governs the area of broadband networking. And it follows from this arrangement that no building permit is required, but that the construction of that network is considered to be a maintenance part which is not subject to building regulations. That's why I don't know why you're appalled because I actually have it written down so that the Ministry of the Environment doesn't issue such interventions in the building permit room. But if you can get me a building permit issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space, I'll be happy to accept it and then find out why I have different information than you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Trophynik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u259	Indeed, I did not intend to propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to discuss this response, but because it threatens the Republic of Slovenia to lose EUR 45 million by Brussels for the irresponsible conduct of the various departments, I apologize to the Minister, I propose that this response be discussed because I think this is absolutely necessary. And on such, excuse me, bureaucratic excuses that it's about maintenance work on something that doesn't exist and is building on a new one, I think it's unworthy to try to make fun of Members in this way or fool them. I therefore propose that this response be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member William Trophynik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The Honourable Minister. The President of the Automotive Chamber notes that six thousand five hundred companies with approximately four thousand trucks have that it is twenty-four thousand employees who create about four percent of the gross social product. It also notes that it is a crisis, as demand for transport is also reduced by 50%. Similarly, the President of the Association for Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia noted that, until now, two thousand vehicles had been excluded, that eight hundred lorries had been returned to lysing companies, that the number of registered cargo vehicles had been reduced by between 80 and 90% and that the cost of transport per kilometer per kilometre was, in fact, 1.24 euros per kilometre, and that what carriers could transport, which could charge from seventy to eighty cents per kilometre, was therefore the presence of unfair competition for employment in black and at the same time the payment deadlines were intolerable for approximately 120 days. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, So what was specifically done to improve the situation of motorists in the Republic of Slovenia? What are the effects of these measures? How is cooperation between motorists and the Ministry of Transport going? Of course, I am also very interested in your personal assessment: Is there a road transport crisis or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dr. Wolf, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you, President. Dear Member! First question. First of all, I will list some of the rules that we have adopted in the meantime in agreement with the motorists. We agreed on some, but some were accepted for some other reason. The first is the Regulation on special conditions for vehicles carrying groups of children. This shall apply from 11. 4. 2009 on. Then the regulations on pedagogical escorts for the transport of child groups are in force from 6. 6. 2009 on. Here is the realization of some mixed commissions for international road transport through the programme, which was implemented in agreement with all the automotive chambers except Croatia. But the Croatian minister and I met recently, and we agreed that this commission, which had died a little, would meet. Then there is a EUR 4 million subsidy for the purchase of Euro5 organic cargo vehicles. Procedures have been carried out to allow the Republic of Slovenia to be included in the list of countries allowing the use of the marked gas oil in the cooling systems of freight vehicles, only confirmation from the German side is pending. Then there are some other regulations, such as the rules on training for emergency transport escorts, which apply from 8. Seven. 2009 on. Then there is the provision of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, on the storage of registration plates for a longer period of more than one year and the provision on the abolition of an additional semi-annual technical review for vehicles carrying dangerous goods, which was the requirement of carriers. Then there was a decree amending the traffic restriction order in the Republic of Slovenia, which abolished self-exclusion on motorways and fast roads, extended emergency transport permits and arranged for the return of drivers' homes during the ban, which was also their requirement. Self-exclusion on highways and fast roads has been a unique feature of European regulation. Even though it is quite critical in public, I think that the operator will be able to better assess whether the road is transportable or not. In particular, this applies to foreign carriers, which, without knowing the specificity of the Slovenian system, took the road in anticipation of being a transport road and then "stopped" traffic for two or three hours or more. Then here is the refund of part of the excise duty on gas oil for commercial purposes, which was realized by the introduction of the novelty of the excise law and by the adoption of the rules on the reimbursement of excise duty for commercial purposes, which is all the European measure adopted by all countries at this time of crisis. In the toll payment system with the Dars card Transporter, the lower limit has been paid in good money on the card, which recognises the highest discount, and has dropped 830 euros to 400 euros. It's a 13% discount. On the basis of the payment system of the toll payment with the Dars card Transporter, the quantitative discount that was charged per card began to be charged together for all cards of a particular user. The same payment system also introduced an additional class with an additional 5% discount for monthly tolls of €1,670 or more. The payment period was extended to 25 in the current month for the payment of the toll spent in the previous month. Special routes for non-cash payment to CP Vransko and CP Warming have been set up, then there is a restriction on the prohibition of overcoming freight vehicles for a shorter daily period and the marking of these restrictions by means of traffic signalling, the introduction of daily and night fares for road tolls and the introduction of additional discounts on toll payments. Those who drive at night have a higher discount, 20% discount. This needs to be seen as a transport policy measure, with which we are trying to clear the roads a little bit during the day. There are some other measures here. I would also say that the effects of these measures are positive. On the part of the automotive sector, there are no repeated requirements for meetings on the same subject. On the other hand, on the other hand, I can say that cooperation takes place at mutual meetings which are the result of an agreement agreed upon 26. 8. 2009 through working groups as well as my personal engagement and engagement with the Secretary of State. I estimate that the crisis of the car carrier has affected them and we are trying to help them to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Dr. Verlich's answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have quite a few acts, regulations, which, of course, as you say, is positive. However, if you allow me, my question is, however, about whether you may have evaluated the amount of this to the financial extent of this effect. Automobile circles say that there is a crisis, many articles say, that there are car carriers in crisis, we are dealing with problems, and last but not least, there is a call in my question why it does not come out in accordance with the regulation of the European Council that the crisis is in road transport, which the Member State has the option to do. In response to my question, you said that, after consulting the European Commission, you were advised to do so. However, I think that if the regulation of the European Union gives this possibility and if the crisis up to this stage in Slovenia is so extensive in the automotive market, the state of Slovenia should do so. I'm asking: Is this also a financial evaluation and what is the reason that, if I understand correctly, the crisis is not yet so great as to be proposed in accordance with the regulation of the European Council on the European Commission, in Slovenia? As for the meetings, you answered my question that you were meeting with all the Automobile Chambers every week. Does that hold?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Please, Minister for Answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u267	Thank you, President. Look, it was me personally who led the negotiations that we reached an agreement on measures for the automotive sector during the crisis. The agreement was based on their proposals, which we have adopted in most cases. The most debate, you can imagine, was about tolls. Also around the tolls we finally reached one common agreement that was acceptable to both sides, while all the other measures I mentioned to you were actually their proposals, some were also ours, but most of the proposals came from their side and then we as the ministry accepted them. That is how we came to this agreement, which means measures during the crisis with the Automobile Chamber. When you're talking about declaring a crisis, you're probably thinking about licensing. If this proposal comes from the European Transport Chambers, there has now been no single proposal to declare the crisis itself, then I see no difficulty in doing so if anything would help to reduce the crisis for them. But neither have they been completely coherent in this regard, and when they are coherent in any proposal, then I, as minister, also accept it, otherwise it is necessary to consider whether it makes sense or not. We have not done a financial evaluation at the Ministry, but we have prepared a review of this activity and also agreed with the motorists, which I think is a fair agreement, that we will finally start dealing with them as a sector and that in what you know well, what is the Road Directorate, they will not only be dealing with infrastructure, but will soon be the Directorate for Road Transport, after some change in the ministry, where they will also be dealing with transport facilities besides infrastructure, that is, what is the road infrastructure activity. We meet regularly with them, most of which are led by the Secretary of State, and I also come when I can, and otherwise the Secretary of State and not only the experts, but also the Secretary of State is sitting in meetings. They meet often, some dynamics are regular and open questions are resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u268	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Dr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like the Minister of Transport's reply, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to be discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. In fact, in this part of the answer only briefly, where you say you are responding to the problems of motorists. If you are asked to do so or to respond to their problems, of course it is good and it means that there is a dynamic, but road transport is also a traffic policy measure. Whether or not there is a road transport crisis, I think it must first identify the Minister of Transport and he is the person and institution of the relevant institutions within the European Commission. If we have a Council Regulation talking about measures to be taken in the event of a crisis in the road transport market for goods, as stated in Article 4, in the first sentence: "If a Member State considers that there is a crisis, it may request the Commission to investigate it and proceed with procedures." I think there's got to be the first transport minister to assess that. Of course, it is good if the motorists are involved, but if their opinions are not fully harmonised, I think that is not the basic reason. The main reason is for the Minister and the Ministry of Transport to assess whether the crisis is so severe and then to trigger these procedures. I therefore propose that we hold a broader debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u270	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of transport, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 November 2009, in the framework of the vote. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health, who is absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Please, if the Minister could give me an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, in response by the Minister of Health to my question, the existence of violations of the laws cited by the Ministry of Health in the proposal of the Health Act relating to the demolition of health homes due to concessions granted was confirmed. The existence of abuse of public funds, time and personnel in public health has also been confirmed in favour of the private earnings of healthcare providers and other infringements of the laws mainly due to the mixing of public and private health activities listed in Chapters 1.5 and 1.6 of the bill. In response to the Minister's meeting, not all the questions I asked were answered. However, it was stated that the new Health Act was intended to regulate and correct this situation. However, there are no mechanisms on the proposals for a new Health Action Act to prevent the current abuse of public and private interference, nor are there any mechanisms and criteria to prevent the further degradation of health homes and hospitals. At the same time, with regard to the exercise of administrative controls by the Ministry at the meeting of the National Assembly, I quote: "I do not have this knowledge to know what legal measures I can take against mayors and my predecessors". Since the Ministry is legally and officially obliged to carry out administrative control duties, I ask: What was the number of administrative controls carried out by the Ministry as a result of damage to public funds, time and resources to the private earnings of healthcare providers? What were the Ministry's actions regarding violations of the laws set out in the proposal for a Health Action Act? This is the case with regard to the illegal state of health homes for the granting of concessions and the infringements of the laws set out in Chapters 1.5 and 1.6 of the new Health Action Act. Does the Ministry intend to waive the mandatory conduct and measures relating to administrative controls and to those violations of the laws? For the answer that will be given at the next meeting of the National Assembly, I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. You're the only one left, and that's why I'm asking you this question. Some time ago, it came to the public that private insurance company Tilia granted the mayor of Črnomlja a 99% discount in car liability insurance. Information now circulates that such discounts are also granted to public persons and officials by state-owned insurance companies. This is, of course, a special focus on persons from state-owned enterprises and public institutions, as well as policies that provide services to the State and the insurance of state-owned property. If this is true, of course it is a serious corruption and it is a completely different case than in the case of a private insurance company. That's why I'm asking you: What specific discounts do insurance companies majority of the country grant to natural persons in the insurance of car liability and in the insurance of personal property? Is it true that among the privileged there are officials from the circles of the current government? Have you ordered, through the instruments that the Ministry has, accurate supervision of the practice of insurance companies in this area? Will you order the publication of all discounts to natural persons taking up public functions? I also ask: Could it happen that, in addition to the stories in banks with loans, there will also be a tycoon privilege in insurance companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Crossman, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u275	Thank you very much for the question, which no doubt belongs to the Ministry of Finance. Although it concerns the Insurance Supervisory Agency in part, we have prepared a longer response. To begin with, I would say that Tilia is owned by the Sava Insurance Company. The Sava reinsurance company is also in important state ownership. You can also view Tilio as, at least partly, a state insurance company, a reinsurance company where state funds are important owners. At least indirectly. And that's how the answer is prepared. Introductoryly, I would like to mention that the business of the insurance undertaking is managed by the management on its own and at its own responsibility. Members of the insurance company's board of directors must ensure that the insurance undertaking operates in accordance with the legislation, taking into account good risk management practice. The insurance undertaking must operate in such a way that at any time it is able to meet its outstanding obligations in a timely manner, that is liquidity, and that it is permanently able to fulfil all its obligations, that is solvency. The premiums and technical provisions must ensure that all insurance and insurance obligations are permanently met. Insurance undertakings shall be marketed entities and the conditions for the operation of an insurance undertaking held by a majority of the state do not derogate in any way from the conditions applicable to other insurance undertakings. Business policies, including the development of a policy of discounts for natural persons, form insurance undertakings themselves. The amount of insurance premiums for car liability insurance and property insurance reduces the various forms of package insurance, thus becoming more favourable than the conclusion of individual insurance. Insurance clients are also rewarded for their loyalty in the form of discounts, and in particular for car insurance, the premium expresses the past or expected behaviour of the insured. Insurance companies have designed bonuses for drivers who have not reported any damage during the insurance period. Recently, discounts have appeared for young families, as insurance companies expect drivers with small children to drive more carefully. Greater safety is also attributed to more experienced drivers and young drivers who have carried out an appropriate test of safe driving. Finally, I should like to reiterate that the creation of a discount on insurance products, as long as risk management is ensured, is within the exclusive competence of insurance undertakings, otherwise reacted by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and requires appropriate recapitalisation or a change in business policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u276	Would you like to complete your answer, Mr Jerovšek? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your answer is quite schooly and also quite a bit of a drink. I did not get an answer to any specific question. The fact that conditions form insurance companies alone does not satisfy me. The country must protect the interests of all citizens. There are no special exceptions here for public officials or for anyone. Of course, those who have or manage state property or are politicians or whatever. And I expected because I raised the question that you would have a state-owned insurance report where they made exceptions. I'm not saying they need names right at the first moment, but there's a lot of talk. I think we need to make an order. Similar answers were used when banks were not aware of tycoon loans. Banks have control councils, supervisors are responsible. Today, it turned out that no one was responsible for anything. And if inside the insurance companies there are similar stories, then Mr. Minister, what might happen is what the Prime Minister once said to you to answer quickly before you think about it. I suggest you answer and give an answer to this: What, in particular, happens or how such exceptions occur? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Minister Križanič, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u279	The Ministry can't run into individual business. If there is an insurance company in any state, then, as one of the owners, of course, he can react and claim compensation. As soon as you know any of this, please make it public and we will react immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister of Health, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u281	I think there's been a mistake. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's what I'm prepared to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u282	This one's gone, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u283	In the beginning, I would like to announce that I expect an oral response at the next meeting or at one of the following meetings when the Minister is present. It is the case that there is an arbitration agreement in Chapter 9, second indent, to oblige the Parties to refrain from acts and declarations which would have a negative impact on accession negotiations. A number of such acts occurred at that time on the Croatian side. That's why I'm asking the minister: What did you do? When you informed in the European Union and the President of Sweden about the unilateral statement by Prime Minister Kosorje and the incidents in the Gulf of Piran 7. 11. 2009? Let me remind you, at the time, in the promenades, self-initiatively sailed into the bay of several boats, fought Croatian flags along a border that had not yet been determined. The worst part of the incident was, it was found to be coordinated and led by Croatian journalist Branka Šeparovic, who verbally attacked us that we have 40,000 black buildings that will be demolished immediately and so on. Very low. On such incidents, I think it is necessary to inform the international public patiently that it is aware of how they are taking place. Now everyone's breathed. The arbitration agreement is signed, but it all shows that it is different on each side and that people are interpreting it differently, so there are events that are far beyond the context of a good neighbourhood and far beyond the route that is supposed to be outlined in the arbitration agreement. The Minister will answer this question to me at the next or at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u284	Your question was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I've got the wrong writing here. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable Minister. It is known that budget users in Slovenia often do not spend budget resources in accordance with the principles of cost-effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency. The successful spending of budgetary resources is all too often understood by users as the realisation of some planned spending on each budget item. The beneficiaries of the appropriations are thus accustomed to check at the end of the financial year how much of the appropriations they have spent in line with the budget and to accelerate spending in order to improve their starting point for the validation of the following or subsequent budgets. It is known that if the budget user has not spent all the funds on the item, it will only be difficult to justify that, in the next budget period, he will be entitled to the same, rather a higher share of the funding, as the planning of the state budget is still mainly in the form of an indexation of the budget lines. That is why, at the end of each year, we are witnessing the accelerated use of financial resources in public administration, such as those intended for the purchase of material. The primary objective is not therefore a cost-effective and efficient use of public funds, but rather a first step is the implementation of the planned annual spending. These indications could also be verified through public procurement statistics. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister, to present the monthly dynamics of the joint realization of all government budget users on the item Material costs, on the score 4,020 and on the score 4,029, these are Other operational expenditure. How do you comment on this dynamic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u287	Thank you very much for the good question, expressed in a cultural way, so I thank you once again, taught by the experience of the previous answer. In the last rebalancing in 2009, there were two economic purposes cited by the mag. Žerjav, this is 4020 Office materials and services and 4029 Other operating expenditure is foreseen for 256 million services, of which 122 million euros for office materials and services and 134 million euros for other operating expenses. These amounts cover all expenditure: integral, dedicated and EU funds, that is, those collected by taxes, those financed by specific funds and those financed by the EU budget. With the reallocations allowed and in line with ZIP for 2009, total expenditure for these two purposes increased by an additional EUR 400,000. The implementation in January - October was totalled EUR 167 million or 65% of the current budget. Perhaps it is also right to say the dynamics of individual groups of budgetary consumers, namely the realization of these budgetary users: the President of the country, the National Assembly, the State Council, the Court of Auditors 69%, with government budget consumers, these are: ministries, government services, and administrative units less - 63% and with judicial budgetary users much more - 82% of the current budget. I agree with you that in recent years, at the end of the year, high spending indices have always been shown for these two purposes. In 2006, the implementation of both targets in the period January - October 64%, about as much as today, and at the end of the year 97.5% of the current budget, was implemented in December 117 at the highest level of even 18.5% of the current budget. So, a fifth was spent in one key month. In 2007, both objectives were realised between January and October 63% and at the end of the year 87% of the current budget. In November, 8% of the current budget was implemented and 15% of the current budget was implemented in December in both purposes. So 2007, this hump was slightly smaller at the end of the year or this big wave. In 2008 both objectives were realised between January and October 66% and at the end of the year 87% of the current budget. In November, 8% of the current budget was implemented and 14% of the current budget was implemented in December. These figures show that in recent years 2006, 2007, 2008 is indeed about increasing spending over the last two months, but it is still important to stress that it is not necessary to make purposeful consumption or consumption just for itself. Even on these two economic purposes, budgetary spending is not monthly uniform, but it can certainly be individual derogations. At the end of this year, there was no need to suspend the implementation of the budget by means of a regulation at the end of the year, which otherwise enables us to implement the Public Finance Act. However, I think it is good that the budgets are prepared so that they can be implemented within normal payment deadlines as confirmed in the National Assembly. The same applies to both intended economic purposes. It is so difficult for me to tell you today what will be the realisation of the state budget on both purposes. However, it seems important to me to point out that in the proposal for the 2010 and 2011 Budget Implementation Act, which you will adopt in the coming days, the reallocation of funds, except within sub-programmes, is said to be the same content, which will certainly limit unintended spending within spending only in order to spend budgetary money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with you, Minister. I would point out that you have this problem in mind, but perhaps in January or February, I would look again at how it was, whether you were able to prevent this wave from happening again and again in all governments every year. Although I tried to fight it myself, I don't know how much I've done, but I need a firm hand here, I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-16-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Ministers for the answers given. I am adjourning the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Before that, I warn you, at 9:00 p.m., Knowledge is harvesting. I think Dr. Tamara Lah has a lecture. Thank you very much.
