ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr. Jakob Presečnik, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Miran Ptrč from 16.40 to 18.30 [[This probably won't be happening.]] and Mr Bogdan Barovich. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 20 March 2009. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Mr President, just before the meeting, I received the debaters' timetable. And I see that I have applied for the debate and that there is no way to discuss it. I think it's a grave violation of Members' rights. You're obviously prejudging the course of this sitting before the vote. We had an episode on the Foreign Policy Committee where there was no breach of procedure. And apparently, throughout the National Assembly, what happened at the SD Congress, where a communist reincarnation took place in the form of three vice-presidents, when the CK agreed on what they would confirm at the assembly. This spirit of past times, which has taken place at that convention - I strongly protest that it is also taking place in this National Assembly. And, Mr President, you obviously succumbed on this basis - I don't know anything else because I was out of the house in the meantime - that you have succumbed to this spirit. I'm protesting, and I want you to tell me in advance when I'm going to be able to discuss what I signed up for.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Dear Mr Jerovšek, as soon as the agenda is set and we move on to the agenda item, I will also explain why the timetable for this meeting and this point is set. And then you will have the opportunity to ask this procedural question again, or when I explain it, I will answer your question. So we're moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present. 64 votes in favour. Against three. [[64 members voted in favour.]] [[Against three members.]] I take it that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. It's a day's work. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. At the College of the National Assembly, we have determined that this item will be dealt with in accordance with Article 67, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where it is also prescribed and specified how the time for discussion is announced. It states that the debate may not be shorter than 20 minutes and not longer than 90 minutes for parliamentary groups. In accordance with this agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly, we have also announced time. I take it that, at the conclusion of the College's decision, you intervened gravely in the Rules of Procedure, organized a timetable for the meeting of the National Assembly past the Rules of Procedure. I suggest you correct this decision as it was taken at the College. I think that past the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone - and even if this is the President of the National Assembly - alone, on the basis of his conscience, for example, in your parliamentary group, when you follow the instructions of your President, you set aside a different time than we have accepted together all the leaders of the parliamentary groups at the College of the National Assembly. I think our request is justified, and I suggest that you correct the timetable as we have announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Let us in fact open a agenda item - defending the proposals for conclusions in relation to the problem of the urgency of the prescribing of policies and the concrete alignment of the state of Slovenia within the framework of the international activities of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and its working bodies, when these activities are taking place abroad; and proposing recommendations for the equalisation of participants in the international activities of the national assembly. Now, on your proposal or on your instructions. Of course, I cannot accept this proposal. My conduct is strictly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the fact is that the mother's working body has adopted a decision as it has adopted it, and once it has adopted such a decision, it is possible and only admissible to deal with it as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As you know, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure, decisions of this Rules of Procedure governing the procedure for the second examination of the draft law shall apply mutatis mutandis to the procedure for the examination of draft acts. Pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which is included in Chapter 2 of the draft law, the home labour body may decide that a proposal for a law which has not been discussed in general is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Article 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, at the meeting of the assembly, the proposal for a second reading law, for which the mother's working body has concluded that it is not suitable for further consideration, does not discuss the National Assembly, but does vote on the proposal of the home working body. On the basis of Article 134(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur of the home working body may further explain his proposal and may then present his views on the proposal of the home working body of the proposed law and the Government, where there is no proposal for a law, as well as representatives of the sent groups. The supplementary explanation and presentation of the position may not exceed 5 minutes. Consideration of the proposal for an act at the meeting of the National Assembly, when the parent working body proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for an act is not suitable for further consideration, shall be clearly set out in the Rules of Procedure and, as such, shall be directly applicable. Therefore, it is clear that there has been a change in the timing, as specified, and around these business complements, of course, there cannot be a specific debate. Therefore, the proposal for conclusions was submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank for consideration. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much again for your word. Mr President, I note that the business conditions and constitutional conditions are met for this point. I find that both the Rules of Procedure and other acts hinder and prevent the work of the opposition. It prevents control of the opposition over the part of the coalition and introduces into the National Assembly essentially absoluteism, or if we update it, if I summarize the words of your famous popular philosopher Slavoj Žižk when he declared one of the members of this government to be Slovenian Stalin, you introduce Stalinism. In the National Assembly, you will achieve only that the opposition will be able to discuss only the things that the coalition will determine, what can and should be discussed in this house. Here you are preventing a discussion on the official document of the Serbian government; on a document published on the website that prevents a discussion of thanks to the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Ivo Wyglu, who has received the public praise of the Minister for Diaspora, Minister for Emigrants of the Serbian Government, for his official announcement of decisions and compensation to the so-called deleted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u7	Mr Tanko, you are discussing the specific conduct of certain Members, and we have banned this debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u8	I'm talking about publishing on a foreign government website. And if I say so, it has also been written that the Serbian government is assessing that more than 18.305 have been deleted in the next few weeks, that this number has actually increased. That's where they wrote 30,000. We're almost 30,000. And what is the worst about all this is that the statements recorded on the Serbian website, which are summarised in our Member's statements, are made at the political level, so to speak, are issued acts, decisions. And what is worse is also carried out at the judicial level; for there was also a prediction of what will happen at the judicial level. This also means a grave intervention into an independent branch of the judiciary. And by preventing a discussion of these actions, of these acts and of these records on the Serbian website, you limit the debate to discuss whether a part of the judiciary is still independent in Slovenia or not, whether the behaviour of the Slovenian government and the Slovenian authorities is as they were predicted, whether they are not, or not, which official has spoken something. And I find that by preventing this, you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u9	I have specifically reminded you that this is a proposal for conclusions on the question of the appropriateness of the forecasting of policies and the specific conduct of the country of Slovenia in the context of the international activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. If you want to, if you are not satisfied with the Government, you have an interpretation, a constitutional charge or anything like that, you can trigger it, but this is not the topic of today's debate. Therefore, the draft conclusions were tabled by a group of Members and a Member with the first-signed Jozet Tank. We've come this far. Mr. Tanko, please. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem was in front of you. The flower of Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, I strongly protest against the way we have witnessed to him at this time by the leader of the SDS Group of Members. Together, Mr Tanko, we sat - now you are leaving the hall because we cannot look into each other's eyes; together we sat at a college meeting where the President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, said clearly what and how the meeting could take place today. It was clearly stated that only what is stated in the conclusions will be discussed in general and only on [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Of course. And you didn't protest that, Mr. Tanko. You did not protest at the college, but you agreed or did not object to such a proposal. The President of the National Assembly said that it would not be discussed as you say in the material, specific cases, specific documents and specific people. And it is a grave abuse, where I think, Mr President, it requires more than you with a warning in your last warning, because it seems to me that it is also a violation of moral and ethical rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally. However, I would like to point out that these last discussions have already crossed the limits of procedural proposals and I will no longer allow further discussion on this subject. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much. In order to avoid any particular complications, Mr President, with the words used, I propose that the meeting be suspended in half an hour. At this time, I propose to convene a meeting of the leaders of the Group to discuss the continuation of the meeting. I believe that this procedural proposal has been corrected in the light of the changed circumstances. I would also like to remind you that I asked you specifically at 12 noon at the College how this item of the agenda will take place, that you promised to inform the Group of Members, of me, so that you could consult the Group of Members. You didn't do it, even though you were the Minister of the Information Society. In fact, I suggest that, now that you have come up with a scenario that you have split into benches just before the start of the meeting, you stop the meeting and that we agree to continue the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u13	I think that this proposal meets the business requirements for termination, so I give a half-life and an immediate meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the college, in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda. The draft conclusions, as I have already said, were submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Thank you for ordering a recess and extending it. We can now see that in this case it is a precedent, something such as that in the National Assembly, that the proposer of the item could not speak and discuss the content proposed for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, what has happened in this Chamber. I must say that we deeply disagree with the fact that this is how the debate is limited to the applicants, says the opposition parties, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party this time. In the parliamentary group, we find that if we want to talk about some of the topics we want to talk about, we will have to go to Belgrade. There's a debate allowed, there can be talk. There are also things to say about which Members do not have the basis or conclusion of the working body. And above all, compensations can be discussed. It is pointed out that this country will assume the burden of compensation. It is probably not necessary to recall that there is also a balance in the state budget and, given how these compensation requirements are taking place, it might be useful to consider making an amendment to this topic. So that the compensation would be given at least as large as the subsidisation of working time. In short, the consequences for this National Assembly for this mandate will be very severe for this country. I do not think it is appropriate that the coalition in this way, in a procedural manner, restricts the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs Janji Klasinc for further explanation of the draft decision. Please. I'm sorry, I missed it. Procedurally, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President, for seeing me. I'm not that small. A member of the National Assembly, a respected colleague and colleague, always has the right to speak. In general, express your opinion or position. Disabling the debate as is happening here today - that is, I now explain our position on the procedural proposal and I will also tell you what we will do in the end. What you have done today is, in fact, to prevent the debate of Members until the hearing, in some unpredicted, arbitrary way, a kind of action that you will probably ever regret. The fact is that we have agreed in the College that we will report the time and that today's debate will be possible. The leadership of the National Assembly has voluntarily decided that there will be no debate, despite the decision taken at the College. As a result, the President-in-Office, since you are thus chairing this meeting of the National Assembly, the Slovenian National Party does not wish to participate in this item and predicts obstruction. And this is a disgrace, a kind of shame for democracy and for this National Assembly. You're violating what was agreed upon at the College, at your college, your esteemed president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee Procedural. [[...]] Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u19	I suggest that the National Assembly does not address this item of the agenda, because of what has been said here today, and because of what has not been convened twice or three times by the Committee on Foreign Policy and why you have not also convened a meeting of the National Assembly of 4. 3. 2009 These are the arguments that you mentioned in the then letter to the representative of the Group of Members and Members, the first to be signed when this group requested an urgent or extraordinary meeting. I would like to resist such attempts to see unconstitutional, unconstitutional things happen, if you wish, to prohibit Members from contrary to the Constitution, contrary to Article 82, contrary to the 49th and many other articles, to express their opinions, opinions and whatever else they appear in public. This will be something that is far from being plagued by parliamentary democracy, at war with freedom of speech and with what we swore when we adopted this constitution. Why did you change your mind and still call this meeting of the National Assembly - remains a mystery. It could be understood from previous explanations that even what is in the material will not be the subject of debate at today's meeting, but something else. It was said that no mention was made of individual Members, and so on, but the speech was only about this. So, the third or fourth attempt, now I would say ultimate, has succeeded: the debate is supposed to be forced, even if it is limited to 5 minutes. I think it's hypocrisy. If a debate is already allowed, then a debate should be allowed on a point which fulfils the condition for placing on the agenda. This point does not meet the conditions and therefore it is not appropriate to limit it to 5 minutes. It is exactly the same - or 5 minutes or 5 hours if such a debate is legitimate. I do not want it myself, and there will be many more opportunities on these issues when there will be interpolation, when there will be an investigative commission and similar, which is already predicted to be just an introduction to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] those debates. [[...]] I propose that, as the Committee has done, the National Assembly also decides that this point does not meet the conditions or that it is not suitable for consideration at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Anderlič, I will not put this proposal to the vote because only those who have put this item on the agenda and proposed calling for an extraordinary meeting can withdraw the agenda. The point fulfils the conditions for consideration as a report with a proposal for a decision is written, so that we continue to work. I now give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs Janji Klasinc for further explanation of the draft decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u21	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. You got a report on today's committee meeting on the bench, so I'm going to cut our morning debate a little short. I will only say that, on behalf of the working body, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I find that the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the proposed material and conclusions interfere with the democratic acquisitions of Slovenian and European democratic societies and therefore reject them as a basis for discussion and decision-making. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I also propose that the National Assembly find that the proposed conclusions of the 26 signatories are not a suitable basis for further consideration and decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Magi conclusions. Branku Grims for the opening presentation of his position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Before that, I forgot to mention that only a discussion on the proposal for a decision or on the proposal of the home working body is allowed and is not allowed, as the legal opinion says, a debate on the concrete conduct of individual Members. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Good-bye to all of you! Bad news is a bad thing. This could now be recorded after this last intermesia of the introduction. Because everyone who is in this Chamber on the side of the ruling coalition is very well aware that at this moment you are breaking the legal foundations of constitutionality and parliamentaryism in Slovenia. By using "prohibiting" in this Chamber, the drumming and in Parliament is an unacceptable expression of how to limit a debate; to limit the debate not to the statement of an individual, although it would remind you that in the previous term the Parliament has not considered certain statements of individuals, for example, on the call of Roma to the barricades on statements concerning secret services and wiretaps in its sessions and on such motions. But the debate on the official document, ladies and gentlemen, you are blocking and prohibiting the debate on the official document published on the official website of the Serbian Government. Because you don't like what follows from this document. What does it really say? In it, the Secretary for Emigrants Miodrag Jaksic, on behalf of the Serbian government, warns that the number of so-called deleted is not what Slovenia operated with him until autumn, but that it is close to 30,000. And in addition, I quote, "really thank you," this is a special Member, "the president of the Slovenian Foreign Policy Committee, because he has announced in Belgrade the issue of documents and the payment of compensation to the so-called deleted." This is an official document of the Serbian government. And you are banning the debate on the official document of another government that touches on Slovenian internal affairs! This is something that probably does not have money in any European Union Parliament. In fact, you put Parliament in some way as an institution of the Orwell Authority, when a ministry, in fact, in a given case, a parliamentary majority, decides what is to be discussed and what is not to be said. You all know that everyone has the right to propose and open up topics of public interest under the Constitution in Parliament. And in this case, of course, this topic has a lot of these elements. The first one is political. The issue of whether the ruling coalition decides and goes to Belgrade, right to the city where an attack command was issued against the independent state of Slovenia, to predict the payment of compensation to so-called deleted persons, although you know very well that among them some invaders have also attacked the state of Slovenia as aggressors with weapons. This is a politically questionable thing to do. And, of course, this has material consequences. And, of course, this has material consequences. Every conversation of one of our officials abroad is understood by those who are on the other side, by the official representatives of another country as a forecast, as a kind of commitment, which, at least morally, sometimes even legally binds the country. And in doing so, there is such perplexity as we have witnessed to him since the ruling coalition even made a statement in writing, including one of the parties that it was a private conversation. For what private conversation? The journey was at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers in the official function and, of course, on the opposite side was the official interlocutor. Where's the private stuff? There are no private trips and private talks at the expense of taxpayers and they should not be in a democratic country, of course. Above all, and because of this panic, what is evident from this official document of the Serbian government is that what has been announced there is being realized in this document. Just a few weeks after that meeting, the number of so - called deleted suddenly mysteriously rose from the once indisputable 18,500 to more than 25,000, reaching 30,000, as the Serbian spokesman had predicted. On the other hand, there has also been a payment or a decision to pay at least one compensation which is not yet legally binding. Because the question now arises, who and where does Slovenia really lead and whether the ruling coalition is more committed to Slovenian citizens and citizens or Belgrade, you do not want to allow this debate because you are truly ashamed of the voters. On behalf of the applicants, I can say that we understand you from this point of view. But, unfortunately, we can't understand and reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of the house! The majority of the arguments made in the explanatory statement by today's panellists and the drafters of the conclusions can be confirmed. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that today's debate and clarification on this issue and statements made abroad do not benefit the interests of the State, harms Parliament's reputation and casts a bad light on the role of Member. Today’s debate also shows that it wants to settle, or if it will, with a political opponent rather than to save the country’s reputation. It is right that the meeting is convened because this is what the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure require of us Members and Members of Parliament, and today it depends on how this debate will also be resolved. We can take it as an opportunity to patiently agree on the way we work, but we can accuse ourselves and take advantage of it as a political account with our opponents. Members of the Slovenian People's Party certainly believe that every request for a debate is legitimate and everyone has the right to demand it, because this is the Parliament which is here to discuss and find appropriate solutions. We appreciate the opinion of colleagues who are against the debate, and this is their right. The powers and tasks of the officials are enshrined in the Constitution and in the laws, principles, values and ways of formulating and adopting the policies and policies of the State are determined by the Constitution and the law. The Constitution and the law also define the basic functions of Members and ensure their independence. The way in which foreign policy is drawn up and foreign policy makers are also identified. It also binds Members and Members of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Constitution of our Parliament, and unwritten rules, codes or rules of conduct in democracy. In its opinion, the Legal Service, inter alia, stated: The National Assembly must not, outside the framework of the Constitution and the law or at the general and regulatory level, restrict the free mandate and, in this context, also the implementation of the members of the National Assembly. We agree with this, but it is necessary to distinguish when a Member represents the opinion of the Parliament or the Committee which is chairing it and when he is in the delegation as one of the members of the delegation or Parliament. Of course, this does not mean that I should not have an opinion as a representative of the body, parliament or committee. It is only necessary to draw a clear line between the personal and the official position. While personal self - censorship takes place here, you need to be careful when, where, and how you talk about doing no harm to your country. To conclude, self - censorship requires knowing how, when, and where things are said not to harm. However, it is normal for Members to have their views, we will defend them and we will most likely make mistakes, but these mistakes should be as few as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Respectable. It is more than obvious that this is an abuse of the Institute of Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which the Constitution permits. There are certain conditions that are required, as a formal requirement, in terms of signatures, requirements, but there are also other conditions and other requirements relating to the content, on the subject, on what the National Assembly is supposed to discuss and ultimately take decisions. In this case, this urgent meeting, an extraordinary meeting, cannot bring any good, can only contribute, in accordance with or within the meaning of Article 63 of the Constitution, contribute to intolerance, contribute to hate speech, contribute to what is most repugnant when it comes to Parliament, to Members. Even less, it cannot contribute to anyone being able, in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution, to enable a Member to be free and independent in terms of individual frameworks, in order to turn this debate in this direction - yes, it does! One argument could not be heard to speak of anything other than the alleged, controversial, hostile, treasonous performance of one of our colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, if we agree to discuss who has said something, who has thought something, it is very far from what has been imposed on us as representatives of the people. After all, the theme of the deleted is really a painful topic for the Republic of Slovenia, and after all, it is wider for many of the people we meet every day, including those who ask us questions in the European Union, "what is the matter?" I believe that in the course of this year we will reach the end, the agreement, the agreement on how to close this issue, but not at a point as set as this one. The point is that you have filed an interpolation - there will be a debate, I suppose 15 hours and a minute later; that you have filed a request for an investigative commission - I suppose from the time this case occurred, as I read, you only want to discuss five things in the last four years. No, ladies and gentlemen! However, try to extend this subject of investigation from the beginning of this problem, with specific political authorities, with specific public function holders and so on. And then we'll clear it up. But when it comes to a three-fold, four-fold repetition of the same matter, and you end up squeezing a president who can't resist you on the basis of opinions that are indisputably clearly written. That opinion in 6.3 is no different from that of the previous week, when I thought that we had already set up in the National Assembly a set of regulations which would nevertheless be judged whether or not a matter meets the conditions - fails the first requirement for a meeting of the Committee; second, a discussion in college. The first requirement for the convening of an extraordinary meeting shall be followed by the same arguments for the convocation in the second trial. So this is just about who's more patient, who's more persistent, I'm not going to say who's more arrogant or rude when it comes to violating fundamental rights, what Parliament should do. And that is that it does not discuss what any of the Members think, what someone declares, but what the assembly actually has to do - to define the acts, the laws, all the things that relate to solving concrete things in this country. Of course, I do not agree with the College if he has already allowed this meeting to be convened to limit it to five minutes. This is an abuse of the rules of procedure, I believe, in my opinion. If a debate is allowed, then this debate should be made possible, as the Rules of Procedure define it. But if that's not the case, then say, "let's have a little discussion there, and we'll do it, and then we'll move on." That, dear colleagues, is not right. That is why, of course, I do not think that we should do anything other than protect the dignity of the National Assembly, so I also suggested that this point should not be debated in this way, as it is set. Of course, we will vote in the House of Members that this is not a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Ms Melita Župevc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Dear Members and Members! Slovenian Parliamentarianism with such an extraordinary session as we have today writes history, unfortunately not with gold, but with black letters. Regardless of what is stated in the request for today's extraordinary meeting, the intention of the motioners is one: to put the specific statements of the individual Member on the page of the President-in-Office and the specific statements of the current President of the Government. With such a meeting in Slovenia, we will establish a dangerous practice that beats the most fundamental principles of democracy. And convincing Members of the SDS that they want to discuss some of the general guidelines of the work of Members and Members on business trips abroad is, to say the least, unworthy. Why? Because this is not the first such requirement, but only one in a series of the same requirements, this time with a different address. The acts defining the international activities of the National Assembly and its working bodies are sufficient and precisely define this area. And it is true that they do not speak of what Members and Members of the people are allowed, nor of what they may speak on business trips abroad. Another act, such as the Constitution, which is the fundamental and highest legal act, we do not need and cannot be. Therefore, there is no need for any conclusions or recommendations in the National Assembly which will put the words in the mouth of Members. It is this supreme legal act that makes it clear that Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound by any instructions. To this end, the Legislative and Legal Service of this Parliament has also clearly defined itself. It also notes that neither the National Assembly at general level outside the framework of the Constitution should restrict the free mandate and, in this context, the specific statements made by the Members of the National Assembly. Such conduct would be nothing more than the establishment of a political court in this House. And some have planted the seeds of this political court in the previous term, when, for example, the opposition, despite constitutional rights, did not allow the commission of a parliamentary inquiry. The making of statements, the views we communicate to both the domestic and the world’s public, all of us are morally and politically bound together. And the responsibility of acting on behalf of Members and Members is the foundation that must apply everywhere. Not only abroad, but also at home and in the National Assembly, and it cannot be considered only coalition but also opposition Members. And such requirements for extraordinary sessions as we have today are irresponsible. The proposalr's wish is another: to collect political points on a subject that divides, that divides, that stirs emotions. That they are behind a narrow political agenda confirms yesterday's request for a parliamentary inquiry. And we share more than the concern for the international reputation of Slovenia with the candidates in the parliamentary group. Unfortunately, they are not credible in their concerns, because they have recently put their own reputation ahead of the reputation of our country by means of a forced vote. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore believe that the conclusions proposed by the proponents are not only inappropriate but also unconstitutional, so we will vote in favour of the proposal that they are not suitable for further consideration. And yes: I am ashamed of where this House came from! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We've only just begun our term, haven't we?? First of all, I join Anderlič's position, which said that the coalition had abused the Rules of Procedure and did not allow for discussion in accordance with Rules of Procedure. I think his position is quite right. Members and other officials of the executive branch can perform in various roles, as representatives of the parties, they can, as individuals, but also on behalf of someone, say, on behalf of the institution or, say, the working body. And with regard to the role we represent, we also express our personal views or the position of the institution. And we travel on business trips on business trips and on private trips. And given our different roles, there are probably legal and substantive grounds for expressing views. In December, we read on the foreign country's website that one of the politicians of the current coalition announced how the state would act in the case of so-called deleted persons. In our opinion, since he was performing on behalf of the working body and had travelled there on an official basis, he did not have any mandate for this statement. There it was said that the State would start issuing decisions and more so that the State would start paying damages. He presented the position and manner of the government, which is also explicitly opposed to the will of voters in the referendum. The statement, of course, triggered serious reactions and resulted in a number of excuses: from the fact that he was travelling there informally, that the statement was made informally, that he was travelling to a private visit, that the statement was not made at all, or that we misunderstood it. However, all these attempts were lied to by writing on the parliamentary and governmental sides of the country where the official was. And no one even tried to deny those records there. If we look at this now and attract this official to a private visit, then we can calmly conclude that this was an abuse of the situation, as private visits by officials are not paid by the state. Perhaps, at the same time, any relevant authority in the Republic of Slovenia, for example, Kosovo would issue a committee opinion at least in principle if it had not already initiated any procedure to at least make an impression. There are cases where there are no such reactions with the Kosovo Commission, and we can probably find out that the perpetrators are not real. However, if a Member or Minister, for example, tells how the State will act without having a mandate without having a competent working body or an institution representing it, then we can determine that the time of Ludvik XIV is returning, a time of absolutism. We could say that too, "state, that's me." And in these cases, we can understand this statement so much more because it has actually started to come true in the next few weeks. But not only will it be absolutism, something similar is happening in modern dictatorships, and there is no significant difference between absolutists and dictators. For, if you remember, a renowned Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Žižek named one of the members of the Pahorje government "Slovakia Stalin" as "Slovak dictator". And that's probably why the official could say such words because he could immediately implement them into practice. However, the forecast made in Belgrade is being implemented; it is being implemented both at the political level and at the legislative level. Because, at the political level, decisions began to be issued without a legal basis, in a manner which was rejected at the referendum and which was interrupted by the former Minister - it is said that he no longer issued decisions in such a way - and also at the judicial level, as a decision was later reached by one of the so-called deleted [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] compensation awarded. [[...]] If not, it must be highly controversial for the official to order the conduct of an independent branch of the judiciary. It is not possible to overlook this; and what is worse, no one is troublesome about it. And such a forecast also shows that the current political authority has a strong influence on the work of the judiciary, because if a politician orders compensation from the judiciary, then that is what it actually means. However, if the official acts on behalf of a political party and tells what the state will do, then we can talk about the fact that this party is a country and that we have returned to a one-party system - and that, given the situation, it is not far from the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u32	time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u33	I hope you'll make suggestions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u34	You, Mr. Tanko, are out of time. Please close the debate. So Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, allow me to warn you again and at the same time protest that, despite the agreement and the announcement, you have allowed yourself to be represented here on behalf of the groups and the proposer and to speak of a specific case, a specific Member, which you said you would not allow. In the Group of Members, we really do not believe that further discussion and decision-making on the proposed decisions are possible under the item on the agenda. In our opinion, this is a case of unequivocal abuse of the Constitutional Institute of Extraordinary Meeting at the request of Members, which is also based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The proposed conclusions are not suitable for further consideration, as the proposaler, in disagreement with the intention of requesting an extraordinary meeting, formally proposes the adoption of decisions and not recommendations, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Decisions derogate from the non-binding nature of the recommendation, contradict the constitutional definition of the representative and the free mandate of the Member. Members' statements under the Constitution of a free mandate can only be morally and politically binding on themselves. It is our belief that the free mandate allows Members to be independent as representatives of the people of any kind and to act primarily in accordance with their will and belief. I would like to point out that the independence and free mandate of a Member is what we really differ from those of the Group. We are therefore disappointed at the constant and repeated behaviour of the session's motioners, who are not aware that they are questioning both the autonomy of the National Assembly and the freedom of speech of Members. In the Group of Members, we cannot really agree on the fact that applicants for an extraordinary meeting in the worst manner of the past, which they have in their language all the time, when there was still an institution to assess the political and social suitability of the parliamentary delegates, to address the statements made by Members. The fact is that Members are elected in general and regular elections and are representatives of all people and are not bound by the Constitution. It is therefore absurd that, for their political statements on the duty to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, they would answer to anyone other than their own conscience to the electorate and the electorate. How else do you explain the intentions of the applicants who, for reasons of sketches, say that when someone goes abroad on an official trip, he must always be aware of the consequences of his speaking for his own country. Anyone who participates in the international activities of Parliament or its working bodies must therefore be aware that there is simply no private discussion with representatives of a foreign country or its institutions. That's what you say in your paper. By summarizing the statements made by the applicants, the latter means that Members should not have their own opinions or think with their own heads after crossing the national border. And that even after their responsibilities, they should not associate with representatives of other countries, even if they are private associations. Also, at dinners, as you say, they should be careful to express themselves figuratively that because of any statement they would not be stung by a "bone in the throat" or if I quote the motioners, "because any statement or announcement of a particular policy or conduct of a country, even if given at an informal meeting such as dinner, the representatives of another country accept as a declaration or at least a moral commitment of that..." and so on. And in that, our respectable colleagues and colleagues, we differ. We're very different! There are no obedient party fighters and political soldiers in the worst sense of the word. With us, we believe that they are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u36	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Members, as provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution, representatives of all the people, not only political parties or perhaps state institutions. [[...]] And they are not bound to any instructions or to keep in their drawers, as some have, signed withdrawal statements without specifying the date of the cases if they were to err against the will of the party’s leader. With us, Members, including in their international work, are bound only by the Constitution and the laws and are responsible only for the electorate and the electorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group will support the decision of the parent working body, which discusses that the debate on this subject and of course the decision on the conclusions is irrelevant, because we believe that opening the debate on this, any Member in any function at any time and wherever it says anything, is inappropriate. We have an open and free decision on what we will say under Article 82 of the Constitution, and no one can take that away from us. We believe that some party is forbidden to talk about what individual Members think and feel, but ours is not like that, at least not yet. We also believe that in some party, those who take advantage of freedom to say what they think should not run in the next election. But for now, I don't think our client is like that either. However, we firmly believe that the function of a Member, for example, if he becomes President of a committee or commission or President of the National Assembly or its Vice-President, does not mean the invalidity or insignificance of Article 82 of the Constitution. The free decision on what someone will say remains open to function by increasing responsibility for the said, and on the Member, the individual who performs the function, the decision on what he will say, what he will represent and in what way. The sanctions for exceeding their powers and declarations are, of course, possible only in elections and nowhere else. But not in the National Assembly, because if we agree to discuss in the National Assembly what Members are saying at any time and at any time, while we are doing such a function, then we will have such extraordinary meetings, we can spend a hundred in this mandate, we can spend a lot of taxpayer money on the one hand, and on the other hand any statement or announcement that anything will happen, although the State of Slovenia is supposed to do so by a single Member, it does not mean anything in practice. It is still up to ninety-nine other Members whether this will happen or not. For this reason, such an accusation is how harmful it is and how the state must, because of something that has been said, do, but is fabricated, be excused for proposing such a debate. The demand for this debate is also extremely problematic in one matter. It is launched to create in a country that is in crisis not only ours, but in a time of global economic crisis to create additional ill will, dissension and negative atmosphere; at a time when the decision of the Constitutional Court is being complied with and before the interpretation of the decision against the Minister, who is only guilty of wanting to respect the rule of law and implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court as it is. This is what we in the Dessus Group are worried about, and we cannot agree with it and we will never be. In this respect, I believe that this proposal is for today's debate, as well as for the intervention against the Minister, in fact for the destruction of constitutional regulation or for the attempt to degrade or reduce the importance of constitutional regulation and a direct attempt to prevent the fulfilment of constitutional order, even though the Minister has sworn to respect constitutional order and that is all she is doing and is therefore being intertwined. This debate is nothing more than an introduction to that interpolation that should make in our country the necessary negative atmosphere in people who already live hard to find fertile ground for populism diverting attention from their own mistakes and problems. I understand the suffering of trying to respect the constitutional order, but I cannot join it and even less our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for conclusions on the question of the appropriateness of the forecasting of policies and the specific conduct of the country of Slovenia in the context of the international activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and its working bodies when these activities take place abroad and the recommendations for the conduct of participants in the international activities of the National Assembly are not suitable for further consideration. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Franco Juri, Zares Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. The Zares Group will vote in favour of the Foreign Policy Committee for a simple reason, which is called 'deja vu' - already seen. It's already been seen in history. If we supported this topic and the demands of the opposition's largest party, we would support the return to the leaded period of totalitarianism, we would support the return to the so-called delegation system, and during the period when Dr France Bucar, after taking the lead before the Council of Europe, would essentially base the totalitarian authorities on what he actually said. You know Mr. Butcher was killed, and he didn't do it. He did not accept the logic of defending something in front of the government that restricted freedom of speech. There are obviously real heirs to totalitarianism here and we would like to reintroduce a way of doing things that is not in accordance with our constitution or with elementary, democratic practice and culture. I myself have participated in various parliamentary forums abroad and I know how they behave and what other delegations can say. There are no such restrictions anywhere, nor in delegations from countries that we do not consider to be an example of democracy. Perhaps in some non-democratic country, we would still find such opportunities, but in fact Members from parliamentary democracies do not know such restrictions and would laugh at us if we discussed them at all. This is how we will vote in favour of the decision. We believe that it is a mistake at all for the National Assembly to deal with such unserious issues or with such serious issues as democracy and non-democracy. And what we have been served today is an outstanding example of undemocratic thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grims has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u43	We will, of course, oppose the proposed decision. For this is also the constitutional basis, which is also very well aware, because the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is very unusual - a Member protects against prosecution under certain conditions. He doesn't protect him for the words he said or for the speaker's desk. Then it is different from virtually all other countries in the European Union, even where they have similar arrangements, for example, in Germany no one has been legally convicted. In Slovenia, at least one has already been. And you all know that. Above all, no Constitution of this world protects against political responsibility. And that is all it really was - the question of the political responsibility of all those performing public functions, to Slovenia, to our country, to the electorate and to the electorate. And this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, binds you, you will not escape it. Every time you went out earlier, you actually ran away from your own responsibility. But if not sooner, the bill for what you're doing will come to the next election. And then you'll be sorry for everything you've done now, because you've set some different standards with it. I have to say, personally, I regret that. How can you not allow, prohibit, as has been explicitly pointed out, the debate on the official document published on the official website of the Serbian Government, which touches Slovenia, which has had concrete consequences which have already been realized. The number of so-called eraseds, as announced or ordered by the Serbian spokesman, increased from 18,000 to almost 30,000, as he said. There was also a forecast of compensation, which you denied even the electoral story at all times, and these elections in this respect were the greatest electoral fraud. And in doing so, a statement by a Member who misuses a foreign institution's foreign media to press on the Slovenian judiciary to grant as much compensation as possible is something that goes across the border, across the line that can and must be the subject of a public debate. However, to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that a fully fabricated accusation has been made in the National Assembly concerning the statement made by one of the SDS Members. Then the whole of Zares, here I have a copy of the newspaper article, you can look at it, attract it, question the statements of the Member and even predict a parliamentary inquiry on this basis, and then because the time ran out, because obviously the elections were already too close, he didn't do it. This shows how you enforce Orwell, when everyone's equal, you're the only one who wants to be more equal than the others. But everyone who's been reading Animal Farms probably knows which animals were more equal than the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Klasinc has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If I connect to my predecessor, Orwella's animal farm is happening. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u46	It's not a controversy. There's no controversy in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u47	It's happening here. [[..]] The Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposed conclusions and the proposed decision, which I myself have launched on the Committee on Foreign Policy. Why? Because all the talk that has been here today has nothing to do with the substance of the proposal proposed by the group of 26 Members. That is, Slovenian Members should listen to the instructions of the big brother in our international activities, who will tell us what we can and cannot say. This is the limitation of our constitutional freedom and, on the other hand, the restriction of fundamental human rights, which is also contained in its Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me read this to you for a minute. This says that "everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and acceptance and communication of notices and ideas without interference by public authorities and regardless of borders", colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this issue in the National Assembly is undignified and a disgrace to Slovenian democracy. That is why the Members of the Social Democrats support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Before you begin, I would really like to warn you that you do not discriminate with fellow Members in view of other explanations of vote. Please, it's mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u49	The decision by the ruling coalition to declare payment of compensation to so-called deleted persons in Belgrade is, of course, a political gesture. It's a political act of "par excellence". And to limit the debate on such an action, about all the elements of it, speaks of the undemocratic nature of those who do it. You all know that it is totally unsustainable, legally, politically and above all, in terms of democratic values, to prohibit, as you yourself have said, a debate on the official document of the Serbian government touching Slovenia. Because, of course, you are ashamed of what it says, of your actions. And, of course, at this point, when you are trying to avoid discussing your responsibility, I hope that you are at least aware of what you are doing with this. It's the gravest abuse of rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u50	A respected colleague of mags. Grimes. No explanation for the vote, no discussion. Please explain why you will vote the way you intend to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u51	I'm explaining why I'm going to vote no. In fact, everyone who knows little or no constitutional law is very well aware that the purpose of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is to protect the minority, i.e. the opposition. It protects it by giving it the opportunity to present its opinion on all matters which it considers relevant to public interest, for the public, for taxpayers. And it is certainly something that repeatedly touches taxpayers, because it is their costs and also the payment of possible compensation to so-called deleted persons will go to their costs, all court proceedings will go to their costs, so it is certainly due to public finances that are still affecting the public interest. It is also affected by the political aspect of the issue of our reputation and our credibility at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. In no case can I support the fact that the proposed debate is not to be held in the National Assembly, under the pretext that the National Assembly is not a place where such hearings could be carried out. I ask you all: Where is the place for such discussions, which are important to Slovenians and Slovenians? If someone claims that such a topic does not matter, I think he is very, very wrong and probably doesn't believe himself. The damages paid by taxpayers and taxpayers are more than important for this country, and that is what is done here, I think this is the only place where we can honestly discuss these things. To say that it is a shame that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that a debate be held on the statements made by one of the Members in a foreign country, I think this expression is demagogic and improbable. I think that they will also recognize in the public that you are abusing the Institute of your majority, where you have made the procedure impossible and that this practice is likely to continue as far as this mandate is concerned. In the past term, this has not been the case. You have violated the Constitution, here you have prevented Members and Members of Parliament from discussing. However, those who misused their position, including the president of the working body, where he represents the state of Slovenia, say that he can discuss anything abroad, even if it is to the detriment of Slovenians and Slovenes or taxpayers. I think it's a disgraceful act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the proposal for a decision because I absolutely agree that the proposed conclusions are not appropriate to be considered in the next debate. What's more, I think they're embarrassing. Those who say that the National Assembly is exactly where there should be an open debate on what is on the agenda today would say that it is the National Assembly that cannot be a place where a debate is possible, that the Member cannot have an opinion and that he cannot express his opinion freely. In this case, it is a violation of the Constitution. The Constitution protects the minority, but the Constitution primarily protects democracy. And the foundations of democracy include freedom of expression. When we wrote the Constitution, we wrote in Article 82 in order to write down such a dictatorship as we did. And as this meeting seemed to be inappropriate and should not be convened, I now express my satisfaction that we have this meeting, because ours and your constituents will be able to see what a person imagines under democracy and who imagines under what human rights are, what is the freedom and independence of the Member, to form and express its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very disturbed by the fact that some politicians - and Members of Parliament - are politicians, especially if we have the functions of managing an individual committee - say that we are not at all responsible for our performances abroad. It really bothers me. I always feel responsible for my constituents, responsible to my country, and I think very much about what I'm saying. But today there is no longer a problem about this topic that is very topical and should be discussed by the National Assembly. It's a real freedom of speech. The Member is not bound to any instructions, he can speak anything. Only one in the National Assembly can speak like that? The opposition doesn't. You stopped her, you stopped her. We can't talk, we can just steal a minute, two, to explain the voice. Although the Constitution and the Constitution guarantee the right to a minority, the opposition can request an extraordinary meeting and discuss the subject it proposes. But we didn't suggest that you should refuse, we demanded in accordance with the Constitution. And this request cannot be rejected by the President of the National Assembly, nor by the Colleges, which is the highest authority in Parliament. And it is also very funny that some members of the working body can prevent the exercise and realization of this fundamental constitutional right, which is applicable to opposition Members, from saying what they want to say in Parliament. That's a question today, not Mr. Wiggle. Nor is it a topic of how to behave abroad. This would require a two-day debate. But a violation of the Constitution, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Thank you, President. I'll explain my voice. I will vote in favour of the Foreign Policy Committee. As a young student, I was at a police hearing because I wore a badge against Article 133. It was an article about a verbal delicacy. I understand that a lot of people here don't even know this article, and they didn't even deal with such important social issues at the time. But some of us are, and therefore we are very sensitive today when I hear proposals to limit, in any way, the right to speak, to our own and free opinion and to restrict Members to performing abroad. That sounds a little stalinistic to me. And please, I don't want to go back to that lead period. If one half of this House wants to say this clearly and not suppress Stalinism, because today I have only heard about Stalinism by those who advocate restricting freedom of speech and opinion. That's not what we're gonna play with. At least we who did something for this democracy. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Your Honor! I will also vote in favour of the proposed decision. But I would like to illustrate why I will vote like this. See, on November 29, 2007, our colleague Janez Janša, then Prime Minister of the Government, visited Pope Benedict XVI. In the Vatican. At that time, they discussed various issues, including the location for the new nuncitur, the process of denationalising church property in Slovenia and issues related to the Vatican Agreement. In short, things I might be a member of the Social Democracy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Dear colleague, allow me to interrupt. Mr. Janez Janša was Prime Minister of the Government. He was the Prime Minister of the Government, and we, the opposition at the time, could have triggered the interpolation or anything about it, but the opposition did not. I would like to stress in particular that the relationship between Parliament and the President of the Government or the Government is different, as is the relationship between Members themselves. I understand your intentions, but I would like to remind you of this important difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u63	Dear President, we didn't get along because I didn't say it to the end. This is precisely because part of the explanatory material of the group of 26 Members also contained statements by the current Prime Minister of the Government of Borut Pahor. I want to say that I do not intend to report to the opposition, to Mr Janez Janša or to any of us, that he has raised such questions and discussed them abroad. As has been the case with you that we have not raised any problems in this regard at the time, I think that it must apply to each and every one of us, regardless of the political definition that we have freedom of opinion and expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I will vote against this decision because this decision prohibits me from speaking. He forbids me to say what has been said in the introduction of today’s session. But when we think about where we are sitting, we are sitting in some places where before 1990 another body was banned and even in those, in those same places at the time. Why? Because with those who thought otherwise, they either settled elsewhere or decided otherwise, or they did not leave them at all. Of course I'm talking about one mind. Of course, it is also necessary to say that I understand this decision, so I will vote against it as if one of our coalition Members is allowed to make a promise in a foreign country and I am not allowed to speak in this Parliament. I further understand that he is allowed under Article 82 of the Constitution, and I am not allowed because I am an opposition Member. Furthermore, it is the protection of human rights for him, and not for me, because you have decided to forbid me from talking about it. For him, it's freedom, it's nothing to me because you forbid me to talk about it. For him, it's the right to speak. You take that right from me. And I deeply agree that we are walking on the edge and that we are already on the edge of that black scenario where we are going in this democracy. Of course we're going, but I fully agree with one of the predecessors, so let's go in the direction that the ban will no longer be necessary. There will simply be no need for anything to be banned. Of course we'll be where everything was already seen, but in the time before 1990. That's what you're doing with this decision. I will therefore vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, I could have answered and talked for a long time, but I don't have much time. But I used to hang out. And I don't want to mess with every man. I will not live for 200 years, Mr Grims, so I will never have time with you to make [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Comrade Weighle, explanation of voice, no controversy, no mention of other names, because they can't answer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u69	I will appreciate it, Mr President, when you take the floor to someone else, not just your coalition colleagues. I will vote in favour because I think we are defending some democratic freedoms in this House. I join Mr. Cuckati in defending the Constitution. The Constitution speaks precisely about the rights of Members, Mr Tsukjati, and also that Members have the right to their opinion and to express it anywhere, anywhere, anywhere and with anyone. There was no mention of a wise thought and a provision from the Vienna Convention on International Contract Law that clearly speaks of who, on behalf of the State, may make binding declarations or accept any moral, material and other obligations when walking the world. The Member of Parliament does not have this power, only the President of the Government, the President of the State and the Foreign Minister have this power. Thus, the debate on my case is completely irrelevant, it serves you to hide the sins of your Prime Minister, who has accepted an obligation at Bled, which will cost this country very much, perhaps lead us to The Hague.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, I will vote against it, of course. Wrong world! In the coalition, you say that you must not lay in your mouth, what Members are allowed to do, and what they must not say abroad. So everything can be done abroad and the damage done is done by Slovenia, but at the same time you say here in Parliament, but you must not say everything that does not suit you must not be spoken and forbidden. And I ask you whether this restriction is not a restriction on my human rights, which you talk so much about when you talk about deleted persons. That is to say, the deleted have more human rights than we have here in Parliament, specifically in this case me. Wrong world! You say we're representatives of all the people, but you forbid us to speak. The representatives of what people are then we, in the opposition, if we cannot speak if you forbid us to? And I wonder if it's something related to Orwell. I think he's very related. We have never seen anything like it in this House before. I do not know where, in which country the Presidency of Parliament has stated and reiterated that it is forbidden to talk about a topic that has been announced somewhere in a capital of a foreign country, in this case in Belgrade, and that compensation will be erased when there is no legislation in Slovenia for it. And later in Slovenia, following that promise in Belgrade, additional decisions are being issued for deleted persons, while at home you are reducing funding for scholarships, for roads and for deleted funds. Make sure that our representatives abroad do not do any harm, you say that this is inappropriate, unworthy, and that this is bad manners. Or it means doing damage to Slovenia and promising billions of amounts for compensation abroad, which is allowed, which is good manners or something like that. I think it is a disaster for this Parliament, what you are doing to prohibit us from speaking and restricting human rights. That is why, of course, I cannot support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. So there's still a desire to explain the voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposed decision. What the Member will say abroad depends primarily on him. And its position may differ from that of the Government, the general position of the National Assembly, its parliamentary group or the President of its party. What will be on the agenda of the National Assembly depends on some of the rules of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and does not depend on the proposals of the so-called largest opposition group of SDS. To be able to speak here, contrary to your views, we have also witnessed the fact that in this reference we have had more extraordinary meetings than normal and all of them have been referred to as the largest opposition parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I will immediately say in the introduction that I will not support the decision of the parent working body, but at the same time I wonder what for God we all fear together if the statements were made correctly and without any problem at that time in Belgrade. Why do you forbid us to speak so that we can express our position a little wider, not just in two minutes or as much as we have at our disposal? I am sorry, Mr Wigel, he said earlier that he had no opportunity to say all that and to explain his statements made in Belgrade. Five minutes ago, he said it himself. And I'm really surprised that the coalition doesn't allow him to defend himself, to actually say what he meant. But on the website of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I do not know if you have all read this, but the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Emigrants of the Government of Serbia, Miodrag Jakšič, today's statement by the President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Iv Weigle, considered very good because Mr Weigle announced that the so-called deleted documents and compensations would be received. A key message of this statement, in my view, is compensation. And that's how they accepted it in Serbia, I'm sure. But here we're moving around saying there won't be any compensation. Look, a statement has been made. Since this declaration was made, the number of so - called deleted persons has increased from 18,305 to 25,673. Even that, I think we can all think together. One more thing, you probably won't be in power forever and think about how you'll feel in [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! In today's vote, we should decide whether we have the right to freedom of speech or not, because it is problematic, both on the one hand and on the other, by argument, to gain democracy. I am pleased with these explanations of vote because I think they have shown that it is not really about this freedom, what one can say or not. Only certain subjects are those who are supposed to deserve this attention, and those topics that our country's Constitutional Court has made clear how and what is wrong with them. And if anyone deals with these topics, which the supreme judicial authority of this country has told about how they stand, it is thus defiling from the foundations of this country. He doesn't know what he's playing with. He's playing with a fire he can't put out. Members can always say a lot of things. Even if we weren't Members, we could say a lot of things. But the question is, who cares what we have to say? And that's, I mean, that's the problem. The things the opposition would like to talk about, they don't care about people anymore, they're overeated. I'm not sure we're dealing with the real problems of this country here today. We have a lot more pressing to do than what we're dealing with. And there will be an institutional framework to discuss this, the last point or one towards the end of the next meeting is interpolation. And here all these things will probably come back on track. So I don't think there's any fear that we shouldn't be talking about. The precedent with which we would like to spice this introduction into this interpretation is a precedent that must not be allowed to come to terms. This is about defending some of the civil standards or repeating the words of the Italian Nobel laureate, which were also said at a monument near Temenica at the ceremony of the half-time event." It is impossible to discuss with phaseism," said Italian Nobel laureate Ignacio Silone. And this applies to all authoritarian systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The ruling proposal cannot be supported, so I will vote against it myself. Obviously, the problem is understanding the right to freedom of expression, so allow me a hypothetical case. The President of the Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Slovenia, hypothetically speaking, is in Croatia and there declares that Croatia is right about the maritime border. Would it be contrary, in your opinion, to the freedom of expression, to discuss this in this House or not, or in accordance with today's new maximum, or would this be allowed at all? Today is a sad day for Slovenian democracy. Today you have conquered one of the fundamental principles of the Slovenian Constitution by your masters. In the opinion of the ruling majority, the Slovenian Constitution applies to one another and not to the other. Articles 39 and 82 of the Constitution, to which you refer and abuse them yourself, are considered to be one of the ruling Members, and the rest of us are obviously not. The Slovenian Constitution is in force in Serbia, and in the Slovenian Parliament it has been gravely trampled by today's decisions. The opposition and thus about half of Parliament were prevented today from talking about another important topic. It was prevented from talking about the material consequences of the assurance given by the high government official, which all Slovenian taxpayers will feel. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you have tied our mouths. I guess if we didn't live in democracy, but at some other time, let's say, in 1945, in that case, we ended up in caves and pits. Thank God we live in democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. I cannot vote in favour of this proposal for a decision by the PSC. I also did not vote in favour of this decision at this meeting this morning. But the majority in Parliament is the one that sets out foreign policy frameworks. And you have enough majority to vote on anything. I will not say 'ad personam' myself, but in my opinion this event in Belgrade was not a prelude. This event in Belgrade has only predicted the positions and policies of the ruling coalition. An accurate understanding of the declarations and also of the coalition agreement or coalition agreement indicates that the so-called deleted ones will receive compensation. The coalition members and ministers claim that the conduct of their officials was unlawful at the time. The Coalition Agreement also makes it clear that all those who have suffered this unlawful act have the right to reparation. That's what you're writing on page 50 of the coalition agreement. Thus, the deletion was unlawful and, in the case of unlawful conduct, the right to compensation will be followed in the spirit of Article 26 of the Constitution. If this is a coalition decision, of course the opposition cannot do much because we are too weak. But please, at least let us speak our mind in the spirit of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dear associates and coworkers! I'm going to be very honest about why I'm going to vote in favour. Apart from the argument already presented, because frankly, I don't have time to beat an empty straw. Tomorrow we have the opening of the fourth regular session of the National Assembly. For some time now, we have been dealing with the budget rebalance day and night, and we have other important measures. And now we'd be spending seven hours here beating the crap out of us. I'm going to vote against it because I think what at this point [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I will vote in favour because I think what a citizen and a citizen thinks at this point. When the economic crisis is when the budget is on, when I have to pay so many and so many bills, when I don't know how to get to a dentist, how I'm going to pay a doctor, how my kid is going to go to primary or secondary school, how he's going to pay the letters for the university, and these MPs have seven hours to beat an empty straw. And that's why I'm going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. I'm going to vote for myself now, just like I did for my mother's work in the morning, so against it. I believe that a broader debate is needed on this burning topic. And I think that today a colleague has already mentioned that we should also allow our colleague, the Committee on Foreign Policy, to explain a situation that may not have shown at the time that it will have such consequences, because of course the issue has been strongly affected by the countries that have emerged in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. When a delegation goes abroad, it has a mandate to discuss certain topics. The delegation is usually balanced. She is helped by the materials of professional services, sometimes we receive secret materials from Members, and it would be here to discuss whether a foreign Member can really talk about everything that "belongs to him". Especially when I have here a letter from the Office of the Government for the Protection of Secret Information, which reminds us of new attempts by foreign security and intelligence services. The MP's will somewhere in the field is not so self-evident. I'm gonna set up a hypothetical case, too. For example, a member of a foreign delegation may even sign a capitulation, or he may be doing other things. On the Question [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u86	I'm asking for your attention and peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Finally, I would like to ask you about the interview in Belgrade. The budget will need a rebalancing. Where do we get it? Maybe we'll take the P.I.S. So we can pay off the blanks? And I'd still like to hear the government's opinion, because apparently he doesn't have it, because they've already gone because the consequences are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u88	The government cannot participate in the explanation of vote, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u89	The microphone is not on, incomprehensible, laughter in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Zicherl, there is no discussion about the vote, not about the government, not about anyone else. [[...]] Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u91	Your Honor! I am sorry that the President of the National Assembly has not abstained from pressure and has maintained his announced position, that is, that he will not convene an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u92	In this case, too, there is no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Please return 10 seconds for taking my time. And this is also proof that you do not respect the basic things that are the subject of this debate and the procedure in Parliament. It is simply that you have made it possible for the National Assembly to have a domestic right something that no democratic parliament can get. So the debate on the statements made by Members, the debate on statements, opinions, opinions and so on, expressed as they think. We have written the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by placing this on the agenda while limiting the debate. If that is what you wanted, then you should also allow the debate. I claim that there was no basis for this, that it was contrary to the Constitution and those arguments. And so it is written in an opinion that you signed when you refused 9. 3. sitting that there is no basis for this meeting. Against this, against the conclusions, i.e. for the decision of the home working body, it is also necessary to vote because no one, including the SDS and SNS Group, can give instructions to Members, Members on how to act. This is what the proposal for conclusions is. What you think we have to do [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To defend everyone. [[...]] Please! Is that what the foundation is, freedom of speech, freedom of opinion and representation, as he thinks? I'm glad. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will support the Committee's decision because I simply think that the proposals put forward are inappropriate. I will support the Committee's decision because I believe and I do not want the National Assembly and its working bodies to become the honorable judge of the legislative branches of power in the future. I will support the Committee's decision because colleagues and colleagues, do not joke about what representatives of the Slovenian authorities have said abroad in the past 18 years, could write a book with a few hundred pages. And not just that. What they have said and have also become an integral part of the resolutions that have also been problematic for this country. And lastly, I will support the conclusion, because it never gets harder, as in this case, that it wouldn't lie a little. And last but not least, hypotheticals. We hypothetically assume that there will be our leader and a foreign leader in one tourist destination and agree together that, of course, the conflict between countries will be judged by the court, and this international court. Will we discuss this in this national assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u97	Thank you. When someone travels abroad on the basis of acts and documents governing the work of the National Assembly or its working bodies, we talk about international activities. And if he is abroad on an official journey, he must be aware, in his conversation with representatives of another country, that the things he will say will have certain consequences for his country. And the journeys to Serbia and down to the south and the talk of some of our colleagues will obviously be more frequent, MEPs and Members, but citizens and citizens will know little or nothing about it. Following the announcement of the decision to delete and the payment of damages in Serbia, I do not know why there are many times when you say that there are many Slovenians who have been erased, that they are Slovenians themselves, and that at least Serbs, why it was necessary to explain it right there. But there's been some other news coming in lately. We will help Serbia enter the EU, we will arrange social security and Slovenian pensions for Serbian citizens, we are talking about seven thousand people. After the new Serbian will be a selection item in Slovenian schools, Slovenia is expected to recognise the Serb minority in its territory, cancel visas for Serbian citizens, the Ljubljana Municipality and the Belgrade City Municipality will be rejoined and so on. That is why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party conclusions which you say are unconstitutional and inappropriate. What is unconstitutional in that someone should not make predictions about the specific policies of the State of Slovenia that the National Assembly has adopted? In no way shall he restrict the Member, nor shall he speak of having no opinion. Of course, everyone has it, but we have a lot of opinions, and we don't make it public, at least not when it's not a good time. I will therefore vote against the decision adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u99	Of course, I cannot support such a proposal. It seems to me a great deal of cynicism that the coalition advocates freedom of speech, at the same time with conclusions on the working bodies, specifically the Committee on Foreign Policy, prevents debate and freedom of speech in this temple of democracy, where it is only possible to speak freely, democratically and on all matters that tangulate life in this country. I believe that the debate on statements and the alleged damages is very important, if not fatal, for Slovenian taxpayers and future policies: social policy, economic policy, development policy. Indemnifications that will burden Slovenian taxpayers as a result of these promises and specifically issued documents will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers: those who lose their jobs, those who today experience economic problems when they run out of money for scholarships when they run out of money for pensions when they run out of money for salaries. We must not talk about admitting and acknowling compensation to those who, in my opinion, do not belong to this compensation. This is a violation of the right and freedom of speech, and in this temple of democracy, which the Constitution allows, its provisions. How important it is whether we will give priority to compensations to deleted or to scholarships for schooling, or whether we will put under the priority of compensation or salary, minimum wages, or whether we will talk about other reductions in social transfers, especially the postponement, for example, of additions to pensioners with the lowest pensions, but we will have open deadlines for compensation. That's why I object. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We are moving to the vote. There is clearly still a desire to explain the vote. [[...]] I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Indeed, in this House as a new Member, I have always seen that there is democracy in here. But I see that democracy in Slovenia is no longer that, unfortunately, we have taken democracy to Serbian soil or Belgrade. Sorry, I'm talking about a man who made statements. Only this emissary, who is a Member, is someone else. He's also the president of the government. We should also discuss why he allows such and other statements. There is no way I can understand that we are actually paying taxpayers again for this nonsense if I can put it this way, which has been dragging since 1991. There are things I can't understand somehow. I don't understand. I just got an e-mail saying how you can make the most of it in a year. This was earned by Elka Strojan, with the compensation that has now been imposed on her in these days. These are things that I somehow can't understand. Why Don't You Allow This Temple So We Can Discuss [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Please limit yourself to the agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u103	Mr President, I will, because I have always been determined on this matter. I believe that there will ever be obedience and that there will ever be a time limit for justice and that you will give this opportunity to discuss this matter in Parliament. And that this House will only become democratic in the future. This is not how I see democracy in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting by the Slovenian Democratic Party is, in my opinion, a simple blackmail or abuse of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of hearing with the views of individual Members and Members. And according to the material that you have attached, also the anticipated calculation with the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor. With this proposal in the National Assembly, you set up some destructive behavioral form. Indeed, it has not been a hundred days since the beginning of the work of this Government, you have already started by calling for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, by citing interpretations, invariably repeating certain laws into parliamentary procedure. All to prevent the normal work of the National Assembly. We are in the midst of the biggest economic crisis since World War II, and today we are dealing with some of the irrelevant things that should not be at the meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the rules of procedure and the constitution at all. The opposition by citing extraordinary meetings is artificially creating an emergency situation in the country, and that is not good. This is not good for dealing with the problems ahead of us to deal with the economic and financial crisis. I think it's time for you to stop throwing pollen under the feet of both the National Assembly and the Government and start working normally, with regular sessions, not with extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, because that doesn't lead anywhere. Of course, I will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would support the request for a debate if this debate were to go in the direction of restricting the hate speech that is spreading from the National Assembly. I would like to know when we are going to get a request that we should, however, listen to the demands of the Commissioner for Human Rights and Ecreia, who urged the policy that the National Assembly and policy, in particular as a whole, should not spread hate speech, because he introduces patterns of behaviour for everyone else. None of this is in these proposed conclusions. As a member of two permanent international delegations, I had the opportunity to listen to the practice of parliamentarians from old democracies. There opposition Members expressed their views, not the official positions of their country. And no one said I'd ever be called in for that. I'm more concerned about what's going on here in the National Assembly. And in the previous mandate, practice has been introduced that Members and also Members have been put on the pranger for some statements or actions. But at the time, the current opposition had, of course, the majority, and could vote on everything it wanted, including eccentric breaches of the rules of procedure. And with power and formal compliance, she achieved what she was not supposed to achieve. It should really be imagined if we find it problematic to ask for a debate on the issue if a group feels neglected and would like to exercise its rights. However, it has never been prohibited to discuss issues that we do not already know the answers to in democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you, Madam President. I will not support this decision of my mother's working body for a number of reasons. I must say that I am sure that those of us who discussed here today in the National Assembly were able to assess what is the key problem of this statement made by the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in Serbia. He made it clear that the decisions would be issued to the deleted and that compensation would be paid. However, if we remember a few hours or a few days ago, here in the National Assembly, even at the previous meeting, we listen to representatives of the government and also to you coalition Members so that no compensation will be paid to the victims. You've been trying to convince the Slovenian public all along. That's unacceptable! It's a grave intervention and a grave lie that you're deceiving Slovenians and Slovenians with! And here you talk and you want to save money on coffee, on such trifles, and here you promise these damages a million dollars' worth of compensation. And that's what I'm sure Slovenians and Slovenians will slowly start to recognize: that you, dear coalition colleagues, deceive the Slovenian public, deceive, truly deceive [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And it is true that in the end, the pensioners will not receive the supplement promised by the pensioner’s client this year. [[..]] And in the end, it will happen that 7,000 or 8,000 or 10,000 scholarships will be less paid than they would have been because there have been changes in the budget balance here on these items. There will also be much, much less mail for those elderly who wait to spend the rest of their lives in a nursing home [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And that's the key problem. [[..]] Indemnities are a key problem. You're all avoiding that. And that is what the Member of Parliament in Belgrade has made clear. And that's the problem. I'm sure he didn't have these credentials unless [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of the proposed decision. Also because in explaining why it was necessary to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, it was said that it was a "what". That they set the limits of democracy for us. But the problem is that some in this House have no boundaries. And today it is likely to be exactly 28 times or less said how this House is banned and restricted. It is now 4:46 p.m., which means that the debate in this House takes exactly 1 hour and 46 minutes. It's talk and it's debate. In your explanation of vote, you gave your opinion. And the predecessor before me made it very clear that we have found out what is the key problem with this statement made by the Member. We've identified ourselves today. And that's exactly what we said we weren't going to talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The debate on compensation for removals is painful for the coalition, and you ban it, as explicitly stated today. However, to prevent a debate on the political and financial consequences of the alleged intrusion into Slovenian public finances in Belgrade is an outrageous violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. That's why I'm not going to back this decision. This is the beating and denial of Articles 39 and 82 of the Slovenian Constitution, that no one should deprive Members of their right and freedom of speech. I'm defending the 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution. This world, and without this Holy Article, would not have happened to an experienced Member of Parliament in the face of this insolence, this political error when he announced a break-in into Slovenian public finances in the middle of Belgrade. Right where Milosevic broke into Slovenian public finances in 1989. Look, a lot of things are possible, but that's not what I meant. But in Slovenia there is a communist renaissance on the march. It happened at the SD congress in Maribor in reincarnation of ideas and methods expressed through at least three vice-presidents of this party, and ideas and methods that we thought went on forever. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] history. I'm afraid they're reincarnating. Unfortunately, the president of the National Assembly also succumbed to this, but the good thing is that already one previous strong party was at a convention in Maribor when the election of vice-presidents began its end. And that's what's gonna happen to this client. There the previous Member said, "Goodbye in the next war." You already have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. Please, Mr. Tanko procedurally? No, no, no. So, we're opening another round to explain the voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. President! Dear Members and Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u116	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u117	I think it's really high time we stopped this debate, which has no tail, not head. However, I must say my opinion on the story presented in Belgrade by the distinguished diplomat and experienced man in his business, which, of course, the opposition has used to speak about what is left for her to speak. So he's shooting at the opposition at all costs and trying to convince his constituents that she's still here, loud and controlling things. In fact, you are doing harm to parliamentary democracy and you are stalling so that we can talk about important things in this House and do what we are here for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I will vote against the proposed decision for four reasons. First of all, for the reason that Mr Anderlič had already pointed out that, when you opened the debate, in a non-profit way, you prevented the debate of members of the National Assembly. In this case, it was a manifest violation of the Rules of Procedure. The second reason why I will vote against this is that, in the previous term and in previous mandates, such statements have been made several times. Let me mention only two complaints before the Council of Europe when we received from Slovenia the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights Hill-Robles and Hamarberg, who went to look at certain locations on the basis of this complaint. However, the same Members who did so did not direct these human rights guards to any foreign country within the European Union, where deportations of migrants, refugees or even citizens of the European Union are occasionally carried out, but they did so in accordance with probably this freedom given to them by the Constitution only for Slovenia. A third reason is that the statement made in Belgrade has significant financial implications. That the Member had announced how he would act, what would happen, and how the judiciary would act. And this has actually happened and these financial consequences will certainly have to be paid by the citizens of this country in the coming years. However, the fourth reason is the so-called modernisation of systems, which will certainly take place on the basis of such statements and has already been announced by the President of the Government. It is about modernising the pension system, modernising the scholarship scheme, modernising social rights and so on. This means that you are aware that such statements and such decisions have major financial implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the proposed decision and this can be very technically explained why. It is that we have learned in the previous term that when the mother's working body finds that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we cannot discuss this law anymore, but that the parliamentary groups, through their representatives, express their views and then vote on whether the law is appropriate. And I think that the President of the National Assembly has made it very clear that an article that speaks about the decision of the parent working body in the second reading of the law is being used, because it is a very similar situation with these conclusions. Because here we are talking about that conclusions are not suitable for further consideration because they are illegal and unconstitutional. So we could even ask the Constitutional Court to determine whether the conclusions that the National Assembly might have adopted after a very hot 7-hour debate were constitutional or not. And they certainly are not constitutional - because they violate the Member's right to freedom of expression and decision at their own discretion. I would particularly like to point out here that this Constitution applies to a Member even when it goes across the Slovenian border to another country. It is funny to say that the Constitution for the Slovenian Member applies only within the borders of Slovenia, as we have just heard. By the way, when we are talking about the costs that this government and this coalition will bear, I would like to point out that over the past four years the costs have accumulated so that the state of Slovenia and citizens will pay them for another 50 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. We are re-voting. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm guessing the assembly isn't concluded. We will repeat the vote in 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-24-SDZ5-Izredna-08.ana.u123	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're voting. [[The ad from the bench.]] It's not procedural. The vote is already under way. There are 47 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the proposal for decisions is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and thank you so much for saying good-bye by tomorrow!
