ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Willi Rezman, Franz Pukšič until 4 p.m., Miran Jerič, Marijan Pojbič from 3 p.m. and Marjan Bezjak. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Bargains. At its 13th extraordinary meeting on 27 November 2009, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Chambers. I should give the word to the representative of the Council of State, but it's not in the hall. The law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. The report should be presented by Mr Rezman, who is absent. Maybe one of the vice presidents? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the law to explain the opinion. The word has magic. Darja Radič, State Secretary, Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In view of the fact that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers has already been examined by the National Assembly and it is only an explanation of the opinion of the Council of State, I will also be very brief. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered the initiative or proposal of the State Council and in this regard has found that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Chambers, as proposed by the National Assembly, has already been amended. The purpose of the proposed amendments to this Act was not to make substantive amendments to the Economic Chambers Act, but only to eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution, as decided by the Constitutional Court. This bill is prepared in accordance with this, and we therefore propose to the National Assembly that the law be reconfirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u4	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u5	Procedurally, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u6	I apologize, Mr President, but as Vice-President, I have been instructed to express my position on behalf of the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u7	Dear colleague Han, I asked if any of the Vice-Presidents would present the Committee's report, which is reflected in the minutes. That's why, unfortunately, I can't give you my word right now. It happens, this is not a disaster, Your Honorable colleague Han and Vice-President of the Committee, we must move on. Once I make an exception, I'll always have to make exceptions on other occasions. This year we have learned so much that we need to strictly follow the rules of procedure in these matters. I thus give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Many words have already been said on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers. At the re-examination of the working body, the Slovenian National Party supported either the request or the position of the Council of State for the re-examination and examination of this law. According to all the theories we've heard, the story is perfectly clear, at least for us. First of all, we need to understand clearly and separate the representative concept, which means that two representative chambers were created after the so-called Chamber of Commerce, and I will call it the Roman one, the GZS-I. - she's gone. Two chambers were created - GZS-II., Chamber of Commerce, New Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce. The decision of the Constitutional Court was clear. As the only reasonable criterion, the Constitutional Court has established representativeness, which means that the proceeds belong to both representative chambers in the division equally, according to the decision of all those previously included in this Chamber. And that's all. However, a new moment has emerged when one part of these funds, which the Chamber of Commerce, II, considers to be theirs, the Chamber of Commerce, as well as the other representative, is convinced that the same division also belongs to that part, as decided by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has laid down only one criterion: the criterion of representativeness. However, the Ministry of Economy could lay down another criterion, a reasonable reason but it is not. Since this is not the case, the decision of the Constitutional Court is perfectly clear. The money shall be divided into two representative chambers, economic and commercial, according to the respective shares and points. And given that we have found in the Slovenian National Party that such division in reality is not possible under this law, we doubt that the decision envisaged by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers is correct and therefore we will not support it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. In the Chamber of Liberal Democrats we are proposing a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Chambers at the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia 16. 11. 2009 supported. Regardless of the veto of the Council of State and given that the views of the Club of Members are the same as they were then, we will vote again today in favour of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of the amendment to the Economic Chambers Act is to remedy the irregularities found in the original law by the Constitutional Court. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce or of the property in general is subject to a number of traps and that the implementation of this act by beneficiaries is urgently to be carefully monitored by the representative Chambers. However, this is a matter of different changes to the law and a compromise agreement between all beneficiaries of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. That the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law eliminates the inequality of representative chambers has been confirmed by the Government's Office for Law, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and even the interest groups of employers and the Commission for the Economy, Tourism and Crafts of the State Council. This fact, however, confirms that the law correctly implements the Constitutional Court's decision, and yet this is most important, and thus justifies its original purpose. For all these reasons, we will reconfirm the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u14	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The current legislation has allowed for unequal treatment of chambers of commerce and the Constitutional Court, in its decision 120/08-25, has decided that the sixth paragraph of Article 29 of the Economic Chambers Act is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, this paragraph allows for unequal treatment of representative chambers in the division of property of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must abolish the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution. This bill, which we have already considered, eliminates the inequality and distinction between the representative chambers in the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and redefines the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which depends on the distribution of assets among the representative chambers. This finding is made by the Constitutional Court. And the proposal for a law that we have considered at the previous meeting has also taken that decision into account. For reasons of clarity, the proposal states that the allocation of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce should be divided in relation to the share of the entitlements of the individual representative chamber. The opinion of the Council of State is therefore contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court, so we cannot support it. We will also support the bill in this consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Lojze Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all your colleagues, colleagues, secretary of state, coworkers! In the Group of Members, we will also confirm this proposal today, we will once again vote in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers. The detailed explanation of why we voted in this way in the first vote was then given, and today we only repeat that this proposal will be confirmed: because it removes disagreements with the Constitution because it agrees with it, with such a proposal by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and with the simple fact that we have already confirmed this proposal with 71 votes and no one opposed it in the first vote in the National Assembly. That is why we will vote like this today, and indeed we will all vote in favour of this proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u18	Good afternoon, distinguished president, secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! From the opinions of the previous presentations of the parliamentary groups, we have heard the reasons for leading the parliamentary groups to reaffirm this law despite the veto voted on by the Constitutional Court, which decided how the legal succession of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce should be regulated. We have the same common position in the Slovenian People's Party to back this law, as we did in the first vote, because the proposal of the law before us, in our opinion, eliminates this discrepancy, as it redefines the shares of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce, on which the distribution of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce is further dependent. The Slovenian People's Party will once again unitedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers, the DeSUS Group has the following opinion. The DeSUS Group contributed to the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Economic Chambers Act, as we considered the proposed solutions acceptable. It was to comply with a decision of the Constitutional Court by which it established the unconstitutionality of Article 29 of this Law and ordered us to abolish this non-compliance. The disputed Article refers to the division of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce between the representative chambers and provides that the shares of the entitlements of the Chamber of Commerce shall include the shares of the entitlements of those entities which have left the Chamber of Commerce and have not transferred their share to any place or transferred it to other non-representative chambers. In short, the Constitutional Court has not found a reasonable reason for this distinction or inequality, so it is our duty to accept, in accordance with the warnings of this high institution, a solution that will eliminate this non-compliance. The proposed solution of the applicant provides that the share of the entitlements of the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce shall be equal to the sum of the shares of the entitlements of all those members of the Chamber of Commerce on the date of the entry into force of this Act, i.e. on 24 June 2006, reduced by those shares of the entitlements of the members who have resigned from the legal successor of the Chamber of Commerce. In the event that an agreement is not reached between the representative chambers by April 2009, all representative co-owners of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce’s assets shall become, in relation to the shares of the eligible representative chambers. Following the adoption of the amendment of the law, the Council of State decided, as is likely to take the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, that the amendment should not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, so it accepted the request that the National Assembly decide again on this law. Our parliamentary group has reviewed the legislative proposals, the constitutional provision, the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Government, the Chamber of Commerce and also the Legal and Legal Services, and has concluded that the law essentially concludes the Constitutional Court's decision, so we will support the amendment on the Chambers of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Main Location of the Republic of Slovenia - Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I should give the word to the government representative for further explanation of the bill, let's just wait a second if they're here in the building, we don't know. The door doesn't open. Mr Tanko, yesterday everyone, with the Rules of Procedure, was appointed representatives of the Government, as the President of the National Assembly requested of the Government. Well, I don't see them. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Renata Brunskole to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u22	Nicely greeted. Dear Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. At its 5th meeting, on 2 December 2009, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered, as a parent working body, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government to the legislative procedure on 28 September 2009. A general discussion was held at the 11th meeting of the National Assembly on the draft law. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 30 September 2009, the President of the National Assembly sent a bill to the opinion of the City Council and the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, who gave an opinion within a certain period and supported the bill. Representatives of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also took part in the meeting of the Committee, in addition to the law-makers. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly highlighted a different arrangement from the system-specific way of providing additional funds to local communities. Notwithstanding the legal basis for additional funding, it is essential that both the Law on the Financing of the Communities and the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia provide additional funding from budgetary resources and therefore considers that the principles of budgetary financing, namely the purpose of spending, cost-effectiveness and transparency, must also be ensured in this case. The second amendment to the bill refers to a new additional budget source of funding, which, in the form of a percentage of income, is intended to finance the additional tasks assigned to the City Hall as the capital of the State. In this regard, it also drew attention to the highlighted obligation to use resources specifically provided for this purpose and to the more specific definition of the type and scope of tasks for which budgetary financing is provided and to the question of cost assessment in ensuring an adequate relationship between funds and funding costs. The legislative and legal service points out the inadequacy of the use of the invitation to tender between the two legal entities in the financing of tasks laid down by law. At the same time, it also pointed out the inadequacy of the absolute exclusion of the invitation to tender. Finally, she stressed that the draft law had tabled amendments to the four groups of Members, which almost fully took into account the earlier comments. The Commission supports the proposal of the National Council of the Law because it considers that the proposal provides a legal basis for financing the tasks of the Municipality of Ljubljana as the capital, which is an attribute of statehood and which is not carried out by any other municipality. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The members of the committee were critical in the debate. Some members of the Committee felt that the proposal was poorly prepared, resulting from the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. They were also critical of the bill because it places the Municipality of Ljubljana in a privileged position against other municipalities and represents a unique solution. They considered the definition of an agreement of a legal nature to be a letter of intent defining the tasks of the municipal and state authorities in the implementation of programmes and tasks under this law to be insufficient and inconsistent and that more appropriate arrangements for the financing of concrete projects would be of State importance. The discussion of the members of the committee that followed stressed that the status of the city of Ljubljana as the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is special and the proposal to regulate the relationship between the city and the country is appropriate. In the light of the comments and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, it was found that the proposals of the amendments tabled addressed the concerns of the service and adequately addressed the open issues. They also considered that it was not possible to assess the necessary financial resources to carry out the tasks under this Act in advance for a year, and it was also difficult to identify the necessary programmes in the law itself. They therefore considered that the Institute of Understanding, which had a legal nature in its letter of intent, was appropriate as it defined a number of programmes. Therefore, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has adopted amendments and assesses that the law is suitable for further consideration and adoption, and proposes to the National Assembly to support the text of the amended bill and its amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 10th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present. At the opening today, Mr President said that he did not see the government, and I must say that we are also in agreement with him here in the opposition, the government actually does not look - whether anyone is physically present or not. In view of the effects or effects, this finding is correct. With regard to the point we have today on the agenda and this amendment to Article 1, let me first say that if we want Ljubljana's well-being, then let's not adopt this law. However, if some of you wish only Mr Jankovic the good, then of course you will adopt this law. We have been in the Republic of Slovenia since 2004 the Main City Act. At that time, he made arrangements for relations between the State and the Government and the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. At the General Discussion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we said that we would support the upgrading of this law, solutions or changes that would give Ljubljana all the rights, resources and obligations it would otherwise acquire through the adoption of provincial legislation. What we have on the table today cannot be compared to this, or today I can say that we have a law on the table that we could call the law on the payment of the pre-election services of the left troika to Mr Zoran Jankovic with the taxpayer's money. That is why we have also proposed amendments, and that is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 1. Mr Jankovic already has a special position, especially if this law is adopted in this country. It is prepared, written and enacted by special laws. Until recently, Mr Jankovic was driving with a sticker that allowed him immunity from the police. Complaints of serious crimes against him lie in the police drawers, while at the same time, at light speed, media-supported house investigations are taking place in people whom Mr Jankovic himself has insinuated. And he denounced them because they resented him. Instead of the government - not five million euros, as it did recently for the purchase of a castle, which is still of public good and public importance and is in the role of all of us and cannot be the subject of some sales if only four million were allocated to Mura, but today there would be no more several thousand unemployed in Pomour. And here this law builds on what's already going on. In fact, if we adopt this law or not, Mr Jankovic obviously has a special status and on the basis of special status, he can also make special arrangements contrary to what 209 other municipalities can do after Slovenia with the Government. That's not right. This law means an upgrade to what's going on. It is very difficult to support solutions that place all others, both city congregations and all other congregations, in an unequal position. By this way of funding, which is "unicum" in comparative regulation, we do not even know at the moment when we adopt the law, how much it will actually cost us. Everything will depend on the agreement between Mr Jankovic and between the Government. What Mr Jankovic and the Government will agree will require the allocation of resources from the State budget for individual tasks each year. If these funds were intended for development tasks, tasks that would raise the quality of life in Ljubljana, the quality of life for the people of this city, it would even be possible to agree to some extent. However, since it is mainly a patching of the budget hole, which reaches almost EUR 200 million at this time and is due to the missed priorities of Mr Jankovic, it is not possible to agree with this. In addition, the law provides for a provision under which Mr Jankovic is exempt from the financing system of the other municipalities. For the rest of the municipalities, we have a provision that we have adopted together with the budget, where the height of the principal is precisely determined, here is set something along with it. And only we know about this part is that the estimate is about 15 million euros a year. We have proposed the amendments in particular for the purpose of initiating a debate on nonsense and the harmful consequences of this law. We think it is necessary to accept them because this law, as it is set up, is inappropriate and brings unrest between the other municipalities and other municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why this amendment, of course, will be supported and we expect the National Assembly to support this and the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Since the desire for a debate is Mr Anderlich, several Members have already raised their hand before you. [[...]] I'm asking you to sign up. The Minister for Local Self-Government also applied. He can have a word when he wants. Please, Mr. Secretary. We're discussing an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed amendments to the law that we are considering today after information has been provided on the professional justification of possible additional financing of the capital through the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Government found that the Municipality of Ljubljana does not have, just because its area is the capital of the state, special powers. Its powers are the same as those of other municipalities, but the fact that, due to the requirements laid down in the Capital Law, it is obliged to take into account the interests of the State in carrying out its tasks, in particular in ensuring the conditions for the functioning of state authorities and organisations and representations. Ljubljana has a special socio-cultural, administrative and economic significance due to its history, geographical location, demographic position, economic structure and population. From this point of view, it represents a gravity centre where an increased frequency is detected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u27	Dear colleague, Mr. Secretary. So we go to the amendment, to Article 1, to the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Now's not the time to present the whole marriage. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u28	Therefore, in response to claims that the proposal for a law, as well as individual articles of this law, is inconsistent with the Constitution, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Financing of the Municipality, or that the law is not based on the Constitution and applicable legislation, let me say that the Government has fully relied on the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in preparing the proposal, that the tasks of the capital and the basis for financing these tasks are subject to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia and that the issue of financing the tasks of the capital does not directly affect the financing and execution of the tasks of the local self-government. There is also a reason why the amendments to the individual articles of the bill, including the one we are currently discussing, as tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, are entirely opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already made it clear once again that we will support the amendment to Article 1 tabled by the SDS and that we will also support all amendments. Once again, people don't understand, that means we're breaking this law - and that's the way it is! It is also because this law would be supported if it were called an intervention law to save the city of Ljubljana, because it is. Because that's what it is! And it's not nice and it's not fair of all those who we are or we'll hear later that we're not honored by our capital, how we're not worried and we're not proud of our beautiful capital. We are and we are strong! So powerful that if this law were to be called an intervention law, they would also support it. Under cover of the capital, such a law, ladies and gentlemen, is by no means appropriate. Article 1 violates, according to the Slovenian National Party, one of the constitutional provisions on equality before the law, since, on the basis of Article 1, we find that one of the municipalities, we leave now the other intentions, is not the same as the other 209. Not because he has special privileges. And if she has them, that's right, just in another form and in another form, not one. Article 1 gives a clear indication that the Municipality of Ljubljana is paying the State that the State may have its authorities in the capital, under point 2, if you read Article 1, this is perfectly clear. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we strongly oppose - yes, I cannot under other articles, I have to speak to you later, President. So in short, the Slovenian National Party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u31	Please, yes, unless the article is related to another, it is not at this time. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u32	Okay, I'll check in later. Article 1 is not supported because, in our view, it also violates the constitutional provision of equality before the law between all congregations. Secondly, because the Ljubljana Municipality does not pay the country that the state can have its own authorities in the capital, which this article gives it, as is also evident from the budget, where it is clear that the state is paying the City District of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has Anton Kampush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister Gjerkesh, respected professional colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana, not Zoran Jankovic. It is probably necessary to say this out loud three times so that we can get used to what it's like. It is true, however, that all countries have a regulated relationship between the state and the capital, as well as recognition, now this is being regulated. So this is regulating relations, what the capital does for the country, that is, the needs of the capital and vice versa. Of course, the capital is also the administrative centre, which is probably also evident from these documents. However, I must admit that I am very disturbed by the discussions in the sense that this is now taken away from the other congregations. It was clear, ten times, and perhaps more times, that the rest of the congregations, therefore, are not somehow deprived to gain less and so on. It has also been made clear that it is a special resource for the development and residence of those who occasionally come to this city in Slovenia, i.e. the capital. Speaking of which, of course, it would be appropriate to invest EUR 4 million in Mura, I find it pointless that Mura is on the right track today. So in Mura was created a new company, Mura and partners, this Mura is currently in restructuring, this Mura is so far away at the moment that she started hiring workers who are still taller; and this is important. Please leave Mura alone for once, to work well and to develop as we all could just want. At this point, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Of course, I support our amendment to Article 1, because the exclusion of the City Assembly from the invitation to tender is inappropriate, as the Legislative and Legal Service has also found. This is how we join Libya in Slovenia. Libya excluded, suspended the constitution when Mr Gaddafi came into power, and we suspend equality before the law with this law. Other municipalities are simply not in the same position as the Municipality of Ljubljana under this law. Ljubljana is a victim in all these debates, how much Ljubljana must sacrifice for the country or for its function as the capital of the country. Why not ask ourselves whether Ljubljana is the capital of Slovenia. Brazil has the capital of Brazil, not Rio de Janeiro or San Paolo. In Australia, the capital of Canberra is neither Sidney nor Melbourne. In Germany there was a long time Bonn, now again Berlin, why would it not be Maribor, and many would solve the problem, move the National Assembly to Maribor, end the State Council, move many ministries to Maribor and in Ljubljana would empty many offices, many spaces that would accommodate more productive services, foreign banks, foreign insurance companies. Let us think in this direction if the status of the capital makes it so burdensome and so poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Was that support for the deletion of the capital or the deletion of the amendment? Good. Janez Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Respectable present. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the importance of Ljubljana as the capital of our country and also of Ljubljana as European capitals, but funding should be resolved in a complex and transparent manner. This can be achieved through the regionalisation of Slovenia and the adoption of the whole legislation, and not only by amending laws such as the law for the capital, the Pomurje and so on. These issues need to be regulated comprehensively for the whole country and the necessary legislation on regions must be adopted and the status of our country's capital should be regulated in this legislation. We support the city of Ljubljana and its citizens and we want matters to be settled, but because of the problems and non-transparency mentioned above, we support the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and do not support the law. The allocation of funds to the Municipality of Ljubljana from the state budget without a call for tender does not provide transparent operations and funds, which are intended to finance the functions of the capital, must also be spent on purpose. We fear that the proposed amendments to the law are intended to meet the promises of the government coalition or to pay for support in the last elections. The funds allocated from the state budget will be spent on projects that will benefit individuals, not citizens and citizens of our capital. Once there is a bill on the proposal for a draft law that will finance the needs of the capital through projects on the basis of a call for proposals and expressly condition that the funds allocated are earmarked, we will be pleased to support such changes in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anton Kolaric has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I'm telling you right now, I'm not going to support the amendments. Secondly, I must tell my colleagues that Ljubljana is not only Zoran Jankovic, I have said this several times. After all, it is 505 years since Ljubljana received its first mayor. 1504 was elected the first Ljubljana mayor and I think it is right that sometimes when you speak, even a little familiar with the history of the capital. By the way, the first mention of the city was 1144 when the German version was Laibach and 1146 later Luwigina. In short, Ljubljana has a great history and did not begin with the era of Mr Zoran Jankovic. I hope that after the era of Zoran Jankovic, Ljubljana will develop as it has so far. With regard to the amendment to Article 1, since we are talking mainly about Article 1, I believe that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account and that the intentional use of resources, economy and transparency is now also ensured. I'll support the text of the law. As I said, I reject the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I will not support the SDS amendment because this amendment proposal, including others, means that the Act on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is no longer in place and that some may not even recognise that the capital of the Republic of Slovenia even exists and which it is. All those who say you agree with the capital to support its development, while at the same time proposing deleting Article 1 and the other three, are telling the truth. Let the public know, we are not ready to find the special solutions proposed by legislation and the Government for the capital. Okay. It is possible, but then it is very clear to say this, but not to say how you are for solutions, that these solutions are not right. I would therefore like to say the following to Article 1 of this Article and to the SDS amendment: there will be nothing new, except that you are not telling a new story. First of all, this is the law on the capital, not the law on Jankovic. This law on the capital was already passed when Jankovic was not mayor. We found, after five years of law enforcement, that it did not produce or produce any effects, and said that there was no agreement previously envisaged by the law between the capital and the city administration and the government, and there were no results, so it was commonly established that a supplement was necessary. At the previous meeting, we found that a supplement was necessary and the law was supported in the first reading. It is right to say that the law takes nothing from anyone. We recognize and know this also by the Government and, if necessary, I believe that it will also loudly announce that further changes are needed in the system of financing local self-government of all municipalities, perhaps even municipalities as well as groups or so-called headquarters municipalities, which have more functions than all 210 or whatever they are now, municipalities in Slovenia. There's no doubt about that, and it's a fact. We do not object that the proposal to regulate the capital law should cause any harm to other congregations. No, that's right. They can't be hurt, and that's what they talk about all the time. However, if Article 1 is deleted, there is simply more material content, including Article 2 of the Act. And what were the essential comments that were specifically mentioned in connection with Article 1 at first reading? The key point was that, in the case of budgetary financing for specific tasks, budgetary principles must also be taken into account in this case. These are, in particular, dedicatedness, cost-effectiveness and transparency, a programme of specific obligations of one and the other co-financed by this programme - states and cities - the obligation to fulfil tasks and also to recover funds if the programme is not fully implemented or not fully implemented. And these principles, ladies and gentlemen of the SDSM, which you are proposing the amendment, are now fully respected in Article 1, as supplemented by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendments adopted on the Committee. All respect for the principles of public financing and budgetary financing, including the control and return of funds, is required, not to refer to the specific emphasis on the principle of purpose, economy and transparency. The essential comment we discussed in the first reading of the law is taken into account. And second. In the debate on the 1st reading of the law, there was a lot of talk about the introduction of a new system of financing that would make it possible to abuse because it no longer provided for a public tender. We have already warned at first reading that this is not true. However, with the additions of Article 1, paragraph 2, this is clearly demonstrated. Yes, even for public funding through the city municipality and through programmes jointly financed by the state and the city council, the public authority: the city municipality on the one hand and the contractor on the other hand need a public invitation to tender in order to select the best bidder. That's clearly written and not saying it's not in the marriage. It says so, and it will be established. It is true, however, that it also states and that such is the view of the Law and Law Service that an agreement between the two state authorities or between the Government as a state authority and the municipal municipality as a local self-government does not presuppose a tender first, because it is a specific, specific task to be financed under the Capital Law. And this main problem, which you have pointed out and may not have been clearly stated in the content of the law, is clearly stated in Article 1 and the objections that have been raised by you have been taken into account in the views of the ZPS and in the amendments adopted by the Committee. Therefore, once again, if your proposal to delete Article 1 is accepted, then you must find new arguments, the arguments you have had so far, you say, we recognise the capital, we know that certain forms of funding are necessary, we just demand that this is not the financing of Jankovic, but the capital - these tasks are now clear. We recognize that the capital has specific tasks, whether it be Ljubljana or, as Mr Petek said, another place, if we do so and when we decide. This law applies to the capital. I would ask that this argument, which is now truly well thought out and substantively adopted in the amendments or in the text adopted in the home working body, be taken into account and that it is known: your proposals mean that the Law on the Capital City, which would be operational and ensure the implementation of specific tasks, is not. Because you are moving everything that is content and meat within the content of this law and keeping only transitional and final provisions, and we know what would happen if your proposals were adopted. At this or next meeting, we would again have a long procedure in which everyone, on behalf of the Group of Members, could say in five minutes what he is saying today and in the end we would find that there is no law and must go into a new procedure. Therefore, I believe that the justification for your amendment is unacceptable and that it should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u43	Replica, Mr. Black. You have not been mentioned, I apologize Mr Chernač, I cannot give you the replica, you have not been mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u44	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u45	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u46	Your Honor, the President. Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure states that each debater has the right to reply to another debater's discussion [[replica]] , if this debate relates to its debate, if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted. Dear colleague Potrč spoke about the fact that the amendments we have proposed are no longer in this law. That's not true. It is said that this debate I was talking about was misinterpreted and misinterpreted because I will explain why. We have the Main City Act, I said, since 2004, and we have not changed - or you do not change - Article 1 of this Act, but by Article 1 of the amendments you amend Article 5 of this Act. Mr Potrč said that if we accept the amendment to Article 1 - by the way, we are not talking about the amendment that Article 1 is deleted, please read Mr Potrč, with respect, we say that the second paragraph of Article 1 is deleted. Article 1 refers, however, to Article 5 of the current law. I hope I've made myself clear this time, if I don't, I'll take the floor again, Mr President. In short, even if all the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are adopted, the Main City Act in all nine or ten of 2004 remains irreversible. It is not only what the Government proposes and what it supports, obviously, the ruling coalition of 6.a and 6.b, which, contrary to the system framework, contrary to the applicable legislation, in an unequal manner in relation to urban and other municipalities regulates "unicum" co-financing of individual tasks on the basis of - not tendering, it is very clearly written in the amendments to the law - the contract. "According to the municipality, funds shall be allocated on the basis of a co-financing agreement concluded with the mayor by the chairman of the direct budget user, who proposed that the programme be included in the national budget development programme plan." A letter of intent, which defines this intention, occurs even earlier. Everything that's been [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u47	Comrade Blacky, you're going over the procedure. You will have the opportunity to re-apply to the debate. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u48	And that's why I felt a duty, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u49	Finish it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u50	to clarify this error in this implementation, because I felt that the debate would otherwise have gone in the wrong direction by the next panellists. [[...]] So, with the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the capital law does not end, all 10 articles of this law remain. However, the non-systemic mode of funding, which does not appear to be the case in the comparative practice of European countries, is abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, and myself personally, of course, we will support the SDS amendment. The fact is, it is said that the law does not apply to Jankovic. It applies to Jankovic and Pahor. This is essentially the legalisation of some interim agreement and payment that Jankovic has been demanding for a long time. Pays for backing the current ruling coalition on its winning path. The fact is that it may not only be Mr Jankovic's law, but perhaps the law of Mr Jankovic's letter or something like that. The fact is that the law is prepared in such a way that it can begin with a mutual agreement between the Prime Minister and the mayor, whatever it may be. And that now in these three years of the current mandate and then in another next term, which Mr Jankovic is confident he will receive, and I think Ljubljana will give him another mandate. Because before people "swimp" what happened, and before they see that the EUR 100 million in debt so far will increase to some EUR 100 million in debt, people will not figure it out - then only over time. I think it's actually like this, I could almost say a cartel deal between two partners who want to master the capital. These changes made by the Government or the coalition are not changes for the good. These are changes that lead to inequalities with other municipalities and allow the mayor to agree on what the state will finance him and how it will give him money. I think this is in line with the one recently explained, I would say, about the matter when Mr Jankovic spoke of 700 hectares of walled surfaces in Ljubljana. Of course, you have to build, you know who's going to build and who's going to collect money. Some say that the new route of urban transport was designed to make it easier for Mr. Jankovic's son to sell those houses down there in Barjo. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u53	Dear colleague Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u54	Mr President, please don't interrupt me, I am saying what has been published in the media. If you don't read the media, I read them. And I have the right as a Member to express my opinion, despite your coalition - you, Mr. Rosle, please be quiet! I have a right to say what I think. Well, we'd be happy to support [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u55	Dear colleague Jelinčič, I warn you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u56	supported this amendment; and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u57	is incorrect [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u58	and any other amendments tabled by the SDS Party. [[...]] We are convinced that the Government works to the detriment of other Slovenian municipalities. And with this law, it works to the detriment of so much more. I hope that the mayors of other municipalities will rise and say something about this. It's just the way it is in Ljubljana. It's true, Jankovic won with his list, got a huge majority of the votes - okay. The opinion and will of the electorate must be respected, but we must not take credit out of this for any private person, for some private company or anything like that. Even so, the government will be at the hands of Mr Jankovic because it will buy him the castle in Kodeljevo for five million euros. There is no problem here that Mrs Shirca will withdraw from her little money and give it to Mr Jankovic because she needs it. He's got to "flash" those holes in those debts. But why do we need to legitimize Mr Jankovic and the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, to sit down and discuss what Mr Jankovic can do, how much he can do, how much he can do and how much he can do, and how much the state will give him if the government is not so generous as to finance a complex project. For, interestingly, the last part of this sentence says, "that resources and funding conditions should be determined and other mutual rights and obligations arranged". There's a lot of stuff in this sentence. The secret is that the government will be able to give all the money, Mr Jankovic will only get a collegial one and cut the ribbon at the opening of an object. Everything else will be borne by the Government, including obligations, because usually in construction projects in Slovenia there is no other than obligations, in fact, because of the fall in these prices and overall. I don't think it makes sense for a nose-to-mouth to accept such a law. Such laws are not in favor of the capital city. It's not the law for the capital. This is a law for certain persons, for certain political coalitions and for certain political options. That's bad. I'm not going to say how undemocratic this is, of course it is, but democracy is that most of us prevail over the minority. All right, we'll take that as well. If we take a comparison with Europe, there is no comparison, because there is no such law in Europe that the prime minister and the mayor of the capital can negotiate for themselves. It is true that governments finance but finance themselves in the main cities, but not in such a way that the government will leave the mayor to what he will do and then bear the costs of all his projects. That's not what it is in Europe. That is why we will support the amendments and we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelinčič, I would like to warn you and, of course, all other Members and Members that when you mention persons who are not in the Chamber and you accuse them, you must be aware that they cannot defend themselves, that they do not have the right to speak and that you must actually limit yourself in your statements, as we say, a bonton and an ethics of mutual communication. Procedurally, the flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to point out once again that there have been repeated insults in this esteemed National Assembly, that again it has come to the point that the Lord, who is called the Nobles, in his speech does not express just as noble words, and I think that indeed, on behalf of our Group of Members, that is enough. The names of the members of our parliamentary group are constantly changing in a way that I think is rude, which offends people and I think that we cannot afford such a speech in the National Assembly anymore. Mr President, I do not think that it is enough for you to warn each time. I demand sanctions. The deer always has this in his language, and I didn't talk about it because the rules of procedure have certain sanctions. Since this is happening all the time, I think we need to do it. We are here to set an example for others in society, and if we are not able to respect each other enough to respect the names and surnames of our colleagues, then I do not think we are an example. I hope that people will not take the example of us for our relations and for our mutual respect. I think this has to end once, because that's the most primitive thing anyone can do to anyone as an insult to make fun of his last names. And this constant repetition - I know what its purpose is, certainly not noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am protesting your statement that I am referring to people who are not here. Mr Jankovic is not here, of course, but he is the mayor. Mr. Pahor is not here, but he is the Prime Minister of the Government. How am I supposed to talk?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u63	My friend Jelinčič, this is not a procedural question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u64	Someone from the government, someone from the city or something? I think so, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u65	I've warned you for the first time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u66	May I say to the end, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u67	I warn you for the first time, this is not a procedural question, a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u68	The procedural proposal is to punish yourself for not allowing the Member to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u69	From the magnetogram of the session, I will find out how the Member of Parliament was named. If the name goes in the direction of insult, I'll give you a reminder. Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u70	Actually, I'd like to say this in the introductions to this controversy. It is not right, Mr President, to say, "All Members who use...". There are several Members or a large majority who do not go below this level. And the fact that we're all the same isn't right. And you're warning everyone. Warn and sanction those who want to -- I don't care -- who are leaving the track, as they're called. But you'll know that by now, that's how you do it, if you don't, they'll help you. Today we have a re-examination, so to speak, which we did in the first reading. I don't think it's right, and it's probably not a proper debate either, because in the first reading, the law was supported as a suitable basis for further consideration. Whether someone is not satisfied or has not come to a point of view of such validity in order to convince the majority that they would reject the law as an inappropriate ground in the first reading, this cannot then be the reason that all the articles, except the title and the article that is supposed to speak of the day of validity of the law - can simply be deleted. It's a new one, some kind of manners that was introduced primarily in this session. If we looked at yesterday, the day before yesterday, and more, we could find that yesterday, for two marriages, all the articles were simply deleted. Whether there is a lack of ideas or a lack of will to dig deeper into what we are actually doing here, that is another question. True, the end of the year is approaching, and perhaps the easiest way to do it is to do it. The law to which the amendments have been tabled - it is clear here that it is necessary to talk about everyone because it could practically be only one amendment: Articles 1 to 4 are deleted. But how exactly can we discuss this amendment? Simply so that it is not accepted, because it goes against the decision of the assembly, that the law is a suitable basis and that, at the final stage of such or amended, we will adopt it, not that we will make it an empty law. So talking about all the things that have already been said here is a shame. The law changes because he was that first toothless because he was what he was. Well, if the previous government wanted to apply it, it would probably be possible in certain segments in spite of everything, but it was not willing. Moreover, the Law on the Financing of the Congregations has also changed, which further took the money out of this joint, if you will. But not in a way that would reflect this through an argumented debate, by proving why that law on the financing of municipalities was actually unfair to the capital and some others and therefore took something away from them. And even today it is not true, and it must be said, because many times it has been said that it goes on everyone’s account and is taken on behalf of others. Directly to any congregation, small, large, urban and other, is not taken. Certainly not, Mr Jerovšek, you know that. I'm sure you'll see again what conspiracy and here I'm not this morning I've already met on some committee that there's something back there, so it just depends whether you're in shape and if you're still having fun with it or not. [[...]] This is a question of this disqualification in these discussions. Sometimes I enjoy myself, sometimes I enjoy myself. In between - he, look Mr. Tanko, he falls into the word, laughs, "kibica" in my debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u71	Mr. Anderlich, stay under the amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u72	Yeah, I know. Yeah, what else am I doing? I justify why this amendment cannot be accepted. This amendment and the debates that have taken place today say about this, in the old Slovenian manner: no harm if one cow dies for me, God forbid to neighbors three. That is roughly how it is, although it takes nothing from us, but they must not get it, even if it goes directly or directly to my capital, for the capital of all and for the institutions within this capital. The needs of each capital also create certain problems, certain costs, certain additional needs. Of course, there are also benefits, and there are benefits from those who live there, who do business, I don't know what the main city is. That's clear. And it would also be illustrative to expect that all municipalities from Osilnica, Hodoša do Tolmin, Ljubljana and so on in Slovenia, because this will never be because they are different conditions. Some say that the congregations I spoke about and many others are more successful, better, but they cannot be the capital and there is no reason for them to be. Therefore, the debate can change in one way or another, because almost every other matter turns into a debate about an individual, about, if you like, the Ljubljana mayor, about, I don't know what other things. It can change, but at the end of the majority goal, expressed in the first reading, that by this law some things in the existing law want to change, supplement and make this law for Ljubljana and for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and for those who come from elsewhere, kind, so that with their potentials they can rule normally and so on. That is why I believe that you will not succeed in deleting all the articles, and by doing so, what was done in the first reading, five, six, seven hours of convincing, explaining and in the end, I believe that the argument that we continue with the law, not the force, has prevailed. If we could look at it, we would see that the debate as voting from different groups was different and that it was not monolithic, but now that pre-election trio supports this law, the others object because it is some kind of pay and so on. This debate in the first reading was not such and confirmed that it was right to move forward with the law. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, I'm assessing when I'm going to give you the replica. You can apply to the debate, even procedurally. I'm asking you to sign up for a debate. Procedurally, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u74	Dear Mr. President. I will read to you once again the first sentence of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says: "Every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate. [[replica]] ‘as far as this debate relates to its debate, if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted’. The exact same debate took place in the case of Mr Anderlich, as in the case of Mr Potrč, where it was reiterated and apparently I was misinterpreted in my implementation that by adopting the amendments the whole law was deleted, that the meat was no longer, as Mr Anderlič said. True, except for the title and the date of validity of the law, everything is deleted; which, for the first time, is not true because in the first amendment we are proposing only the deletion of one paragraph, that is, the second paragraph of Article 1 which essentially deletes Article 6(5) of the current law and remains the second paragraph of Article 5 of the current law. Another time. Even if all amendments are adopted, the Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia remains fully in force in all ten articles. By the way, the current law in the second paragraph of Article 5 provides that the President of the Government and the Mayor shall sign an agreement which has the legal nature of the letter of intent, which shall also assess the financial consequences of the performance of the tasks which are important both for the State and for the city. Therefore, if you adopt a law that amends only this paragraph of Article 5 - not significantly - it remains roughly the same as that laid down in the applicable law - and adds 6a. and 6b. Article where, beyond all the applicable criteria, it provides for the financing of tasks which are supposed to be of this particular importance, we know that they are not. That is why I originally named this amendment the law on payment of pre-election services to Mr Jankovic on the left hand side of the troika, i.e. from the taxpayer's money. For this reason, I would ask that the debaters take into account what is written in the law, what is written in the proposed amendments, and that you do not repeatedly repeat what is not true because you have material on the table, on the computer, and you can read at any time that what you are explaining is not true. The Act on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 2004. In a comparatively legal manner, the relationship between the capital and the country rules with other European Union countries. I will say again: we also said in the general debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we do not have a problem upgrading these solutions, but in accordance with the rest of the system legislation, that we are repealing the law on the capital, but that is not true, of course. Article 5 of the current law is being amended by these amendments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u75	Mr. Chernač, you are abusing the right to a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u77	So I ask you to close immediately. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I'm protesting the manner in which today's session is conducted. This part, which we are now talking about, is said to be referred to in Articles 69 and 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; one procedural proposal, the other replica. The Rules of Procedure state that in one or the other case he must receive a word as soon as he requests it. I don't think the president of the National Assembly of the word "so" can explain it the way you explained it, so you can decide when to give it. "Right away" means right away. Please read the Rules of Procedure carefully, at least when you run it, and also use it as it is written, not after [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u79	Mr Tanko, this is not the subject of a debate on the amendment to Article 1 of the Main City Act. Please go to the content and do not teach people the rules of procedure in this congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u80	However, I would like this debate to proceed in the manner set out in the Rules of Procedure and to be able to discuss it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u81	Then please discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u82	Respected, given that it has been repeatedly said that the law on the capital was passed in 2004, it is said that it was probably accepted by the previous coalition of Mr Ropa, where you were too - all those who are now in the coalition - then the coalition, you probably knew what you wrote in the law. It is kind of unhygienic to report to the previous government that she did not enforce the law. For you have been a government for a year, and obviously this law, which you yourself have adopted, is not implemented in the way it is written in the text, otherwise you would not have faced revisions in the National Assembly, both in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which were completely non-systematic and did not belong in the budget, nor in the revisions of this law, which you now propose and are also non-systematic. By the way, the solution you are proposing in the second paragraph of Article 1 is to say that this is the new sixth paragraph you are adding is that it suspends the law on the implementation of the budget, ZIPRO, which we adopted last month when we discussed the budget. This is the suspension of the law on the implementation of the budget, since the city of Ljubljana is subject to special privileges and special ways of accessing public funds from the state budget. I now ask the Minister, who is here, whether we can, as stated in Article 1, paragraph 6, list two other cases where such a provision exists and when the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can be implemented in this way. Two specific cases, please. When you answer, I will continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Before I gave my word to Mr. Rože, I received a magnetogram of my opposition to the Victory of the Hellenic Trinitarian. Among other things, I quote, he said, "You, Mr. Rozle, please be quiet." In accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give a reminder to Mr Zmaj Jelinčič. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will make sure that I understand this amendment correctly so that it does not need to be rectified. As I read the amendment, which would delete the second paragraph of Article 1 or the new sixth paragraph of Article 5 of the previous law, it sets out the way in which the provisions of this law on the capital place would be implemented, for which - I hope that, at least naively, I believe and conclude after the discussions of previous debaters - everyone believes that he has some special needs and tasks and therefore deserves some special attention. I am sure that the municipality of Ljubljana is not yet the only municipality to be financed in this way, but will be the only municipality to be financed in this way with a legal basis. Anyone who's a mayor here or who's ever been a mayor, even if he's not, if he's a mayor or something like that, he has to admit that he's certainly ever, in his political career, stepped up to a minister, informally addressed him, and sometimes he's made a deal about something, and this thing came into the budget, and this old thing came into the NRP, etc. - and this thing was going on. And these funds, which are already being used in this way, are in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia every year "o ho ho". This was also something that we pointed out in the Parliamentary Group, indeed, when the budget and the ZIPR were adopted, that the NRPs should in short be cleared of such and similar transactions that were made under the table and for which there is no legal basis. The city of Ljubljana not only has a moral reason, so this law will also give it the legal basis for such things. I think that all these criticisms of non-intention would still be understandable if this were really the first such case, and that is not the case with my firm conviction. But perhaps jealousy is a legal basis for such action by the one who leads the proposers to this amendment. But, as it is said, the city of Ljubljana has reasons why it deserves special treatment because it is the capital of our country because it has been the capital of the country of Kranjska for centuries, because the country of Kranjska is the central Slovenian country, has always been and has led things to where they are. So much for this amendment. I'll call back with the others. Thank you. Of course I can't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Madam President, at the conclusion of the debate, I asked very clearly if the Minister can list two other cases where individual projects are extra-budgeted in this way, for example, if there is another municipality in the Republic of Slovenia which is subject to this provision, if there is another case in the Republic of Slovenia when such a provision applies in another area. And I asked nicely: two more cases. It's an exception, a derogation from the rule, it's never been in any marriage before. I've been here for 9 or 10 years, no marriage has made this exception, and I'm wondering if there's any other exception that we probably don't know. I would like to ask for an immediate reply, because that is what the continuation of the debate depends on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The Minister will only come forward when he wishes and assesses that this is necessary. He heard the question and will answer if he assesses that this is necessary. Procedurally, forward. The victory of the noble deer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You gave me a warning. 77. Article 77 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is officially consolidated, reads: "A reminder may be given to a member or other participant at a meeting if he speaks, although the chairman has not given him the floor, if he refers to a matter which is not on the agenda or if he otherwise violates the order of the meeting and the provisions of this Rules of Procedure." Now I would ask you to explain to me what you have given me here as a reminder, because none of what you have been talking about is in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You may have some drafts, but you already have them in your drafts, but for now this is not in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u89	Of course, Mr Jelinčič Noble: if in any other way he violates the order at the meeting of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. In violation of the rules of procedure at the meeting, however, it is humiliating to speak about its fellow Members and Members. This is definitely the thing that is over the rules of procedure, even the question of some normal inter-human ethics. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek had. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You didn't see me before. Look, you've given a warning to Comrade Jelinčič. I don't [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u91	Well, you can't discuss it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u92	No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u93	you have a procedural proposal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u94	Procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u95	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u96	The proposal will [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u97	Give me a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u98	, but [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u99	If you don't, I'll have to, of course, you know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u100	be correct [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u101	Take the word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u102	Be correct. [[...]] Although I agree that the word play is allowed in Parliament and I do not have such restrictive criteria. However, if you have given a warning to your colleague Jelinčič, then you must also warn your colleague Anderlič, who insulted me and spoke disrespectfully without having challenged anything, I did not have a softie. It's true that his argument made me laugh - but isn't that allowed?Oh, my God! And then he even started a plaza of discredit and demeaning speech at my expense. You must be equal, consistent, the principle of equality must be respected. If you have established such criteria, then be consistent. That's it! And I think you have to be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u103	Procedural proposal! You didn't give it away. You've abused this institution with this. Mr Jerovšek, I am very closely following and believe me that if Mr Anderlich went through what he said, he would absolutely react. Please, Mr. Jelinčič, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Inadequate words are not defined in this Rules of Procedure as any breach, nor is there a breach of order in this venerable institution. And given that you take our words here and do not allow the debate as European Parliaments know - perhaps it would be good to see what European Parliament is like, how they are discussing there, maybe some of our neighbouring countries - it seems to you that it is up to people to really go on the road and that you want people to go on the road in the spring. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that we take a 15-minute recess, meet at a meeting of the College of Speakers of Parliamentary Groups and discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I will not accept the proposal because there is no reason to interrupt the meeting and have a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. Once again, it is at least what is expected of Members and Members to treat each other with respect. This is probably the problem of this House and it needs to be tackled and dealt with openly and to ensure that people can have different views among themselves, it is right to have them, but they must express them in a respectful way to others. Mr. Jelinčič, procedurally? Please. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When the Member wishes to replicate or talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, he has 3 minutes - he writes in the Rules of Procedure - he gets the word immediately and has 3 minutes. I find that when someone in our delegation wants a replica and gets it or wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, you do not give him, as before Jerovšku, even 10 seconds to explain it properly, not 3 minutes! The President must have the patience to last for 3 minutes and, once this argument has been made, must be defined by this proposal, which has been said. President, this is what we expect of you! That's why you're also president of the National Assembly to follow the rules of procedure. Secondly, I would like to answer the questions raised by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like it now, because then I intend to go back to the debate, but I also need a basis for such a discussion. The government was late at the beginning of the meeting, did not present the bill, it is said, it took 5 minutes, now the minister has 15 minutes at his disposal and is not actually involved in the debate, not even when he is directly challenged. I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to actively cooperate and answer the questions raised with the Members who are taking part in the debate on such an important topic as the regulation of relations with the capital - that is why we have a debate in the National Assembly. And I want an answer or a very clear answer that this answer will not be possible because it cannot be given. I also accept that. I just want the answer of the Minister, the representative of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Victory by Jelinčič noble, procedural or procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask you to do what you should do in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 75 of this Rules of Procedure, which states: "The President shall ensure that no one disturbs the speaker during the speech. The speaker can only be reached by the chairman to remind him of his turn." By the way, you reminded me, but you didn't remind me of the one who jumped into my word. As for the different ways of expressing last names, I would ask you, what if someone were to stutter here in the National Assembly, and then they would, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u109	Mr. Jelinčič [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u110	which he talks about, I would then [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u111	Again [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u112	I said that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u113	I warn you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u114	It's a crazy thing to do. [[...]] Would You Also Determine [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u115	I'm warning you again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u116	That it's a joke or something?Oh, my God! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u117	And I'll take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u118	Or, let's say, carry it so [[...]] [[...]] [[It's a stretcher.]] "a little bit like that" or "sss" [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. Thank you. I think you've gone too far. Far too far! The word is "Miran Potch." We continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I will try to go back to the content of Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1, and I will only say before that I am sorry that the National Assembly is not generally able to discuss the content, but is accusing each other and I think that this is bad for our reputation. I want everyone to think about it for themselves. With regard to the contents of the amendment, I would like, as the SDS Group has often said, to simplify things. And simplified: the proposals made by the SDS in relation to the 1st and other articles mean that it will remain in force the old law, with the old content, for which, at first reading, we have found together with a decent majority that it is not appropriate and does not solve the problems of the capital. And since we are discussing today the amendments and additions to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, this will mean that with your amendments, gentlemen of the SDS, you are destroying the content of this law, which we are discussing today, this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Main City Act and you want to maintain an old law that has not solved the substantive problems. I think that's clear, and that's all I wanted to stress in my first debate. Maybe it's about talking about it, I just want you to be honest and say it's a wish, because the first marriage had a principle agreement and there was nothing out of those principled agreements. Therefore, another law, which we are discussing today, provided that the principle investment agreement still applies when it comes to it, and as regards the ongoing financing of certain tasks, as demonstrated in the study prepared by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which we all have that the amount of Ljubljana's resources for certain purposes is currently and regularly higher than the average in Slovenia, due to the tasks and functions of Ljubljana, related to the tasks and functions of the capital. And once again, it is not true - at least in my firm belief - that we would be doing this with some special privilege. It is not true that this is a unique arrangement, because when the law was introduced, there were a number of cases of how other countries have a special status as the capital, and it would be time for us to do so too. Therefore, the debate on this and the following amendments, as you tabled them, gentlemen from the SDS, means that if they were - and I hope they will not - your amendments would have been adopted, we would have had a law that we adopted five years ago, which did not provide the expected results. Let me put it this way, today it's pointless to say which government has accepted it. Yeah, we were in a coalition. I can say that because I have been with Mr Anderlich and one of the other proponents of this law that we also had a lot of debate in our coalition at the time, what the content should be, that the law should be adopted at all. And that in the first drafts we had much more content and meat of this law, as well as then to say, "our ruling coalition" was not prepared - then the Prime Minister, finance minister and so on. But then a law was passed that predicted the beginnings of the possible regulation of the special situation of Ljubljana. Today, after five years of this law, we find together that he has not foreseen enough and that it would be time for some of the functions for all of us, not only for the Ljubljanaians, to be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I'm going to support the amendment myself, and I wonder why he's in such a hurry with this marriage. Ljubljana has been the capital for 500 years, as has been said today, but suddenly such a rush. I conclude that this is a 2008 settlement - therefore, debts have to be paid. Of course, this law, which allows extra-budgetary funding, will show the privileged position of Ljubljana and the handicapped other municipalities. If not the congregation, there will be someone else, and the money will have to be taken from somewhere. At this point, I say that Ljubljana, for the first time, due to the lack and postponement of projects, as far as we know, has not spent a year of budget, the budget, with the previous currency in mind, 60 billion tolars is almost twice the budget of the Ministry of Culture, etc. Ljubljana can't even make money, I'll say that later. However, Ljubljana has a special position - and in the last month we hear from the European Union, since the 10 pedestrian crossings are extremely dangerous three in Ljubljana. So, there's seven of them somewhere else. There are 20 countries in the Union that have no such dangerous transition - 20 capitals. In addition, Ljubljana is the most wasteful energy city. Clearly, we have not yet reached this lesson to restore the facades, to strengthen isolation and to begin with energy-wise conscience. Ljubljana has an extremely volatile traffic situation, and now the 99th time they are repairing the almost newly built tunnel in Šiška, and therefore Gorenjci from Medvod to this duty station spend 2 hours every day. We also retreat every day in a column to the ambulance. If this is going to take longer, I'm just wondering what's going on inside the ambulance that's going on for minutes when it hits this column. Of course, the best way to get the money out of the budget is to make no effort for them, even if they are suffering from a defence budget or some other budget, because the mayor has obviously adapted himself to the role of a capital that he did not deserve. Since there is no stadium, he did not, for example, earn like his colleague Kangler or the city of Maribor when they picked up half a million euros in one day at the football game, where Slovenia joined the World Cup. Zagreb colleague - Zagreb turned 8 million euros - two days of concert U2. And it's like a lot of income. And we have Hal Tivoli, 6,000 viewers, and it's all fucked up. In addition, the mayor fails to keep his pre-election promises: complications with the market, complications with gardeners. First of all, let's say we've heard in this term that he's lifted [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u123	Dear colleague Ziherl, take a moment to make an amendment, because this has nothing to do with the amendment. I was waiting for you at the daycare center, and then I interrupted. This has nothing to do with the amendment. Please, it's about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u124	Can we still use the tram line? I can't. Then I conclude the debate with this feeling that there is still a need for decentralisation, the introduction of landscapes in Slovenia. Some of the tasks could be transferred to other cities in Slovenia. There are thousand-year-old cities, there are more orderly cities, cities that have arranged traffic. In addition, if everything was to be concentrated on the capital, the capital itself would become more transport-oriented, but at the same time, at the sites currently occupied by the institutions, it could give the opportunity or opportunity to business centres or other stakeholders to carry out their activities. Once again, I will certainly support the amendment, because this second paragraph has almost the status of a harmful contract, one could say.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u125	The minister, Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am responding to the question I have received from Mr Tank. The Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia governs the relationship between the two independent public law systems, the State and the Municipality, with a view to their cooperation and the exercise of the functions of the capital, while fully respecting their powers and the legal order in which they operate. In the same way, the proposed law regulates the financing of the tasks of the capital. The core document of cooperation is an agreement in which the State and the municipal community agree on the tasks and programmes to be carried out in a coordinated manner. The solution was prepared in close cooperation with the government and state-level legislative services, which assessed this solution as good and appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on the amendment to Article 1, i.e. the appendix to paragraph 6, by the DeSUS Group would be as follows. Of course, it was to feel some fluctuations in the willingness to confirm and adopt the law on the capital in our parliamentary group until further amendments were tabled by the coalition, which convinced us that the law was well prepared and that it was suitable for consideration and adoption. As we discuss the amendments by the SDS party to Article 6(1), we have a completely different opinion on this. We certainly cannot support this amendment; we cannot support it because we believe that financing arrangements in the way they are set up, that is, at the signing of the annual contract between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Government, that it is also true and reliable to ensure the transparency of spending public funds in such a way that at any time the purpose of all these funds allocated to the Municipality of Ljubljana can also be compared. In this debate, however, we are disturbed by the fact that the Mayor of Jankovic and the municipal municipality with Jankovic are somehow identified, although we know that the 10th Article of the Constitution is also expressly and decisively provided for one of the symbols of the Municipality of Ljubljana. So, like the anthem, as well as the flag, so defines the capital. We certainly want the capital to be such that it will excite pride, but we know that the capital of Ljubljana, the capital of the country, has some additional obligations and additional greys that need to be provided in some way. Let me also say another spectrum that I see as the mayor of another city congregation. I have no fear that this case of paragraph 6 - the financing of the capital would interfere with the financing of the municipalities or the other 210 municipalities. I am convinced that funding is set up in such a way that this resource is completely different from funding through law and community funding. Thus, we do not fear that any city congregation or any other congregation will be overthrown as a result of the adoption of this law. We fully support the law. However, we cannot support this amendment, because we believe that the matter in paragraph 6 is properly set and that it gives everything that the DeSUS Group expects of this law and this Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. Today's debate, just as unfortunately, has already set a number of limits on everything that has led the electorates and voters to elect us to be their representatives in the National Assembly. Therefore, I am saddened by the information about what people think about the work of us, Members and Members of the National Assembly, and what our opinion is about, because perhaps a bad light is throwing at everything because of some or - as some colleagues have said before - because of a few people or perhaps ten people who are discussing in the National Assembly in a way far from right, honest or noble. Let me begin in the debate on the amendment to Article 1 of the Main City Act. I will support myself, as has been adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the amendment of the coalition. With the amendment proposed by the SDS colleagues, I cannot agree and will not support it. In this debate, however, let me give a completely different view of what the capital is. This morning, I read an article in the Dolenjska List, a few weeks ago Professor Boštjan Žekš, Minister for Slovenians from around the world and in place, said how his friend, a world-famous academic doctor, Prof. Dr. Vinko Kambič, a Metlik and also an honorary citizen of Metlika, spoke so much about Metlika and its importance that even a respected American doctor and hospital director in New York, who worked very hard with Dr. Kambič, thought that Metlika was the capital of Slovenia and not Ljubljana; that Ljubljana was a peripheral place where the hospital where Prof. Kambič was employed. So when you think about what the capital is, it can mean something else to someone else personally. I also spoke in the debate on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development about the fact that I remember from the elementary school when we lived, and I was also born in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and it was said that this country has six Socialist republics and two autonomous provinces. I remember being taught that the Socialist Republic of Slovenia has the capital of Ljubljana. Therefore, I cannot agree with those who have already discussed, who has any merit, that the capital of Ljubljana is, I don't know, just 20 years ago and so on, it can't be. But it is true that the state of Slovenia itself is not that old; we are here for about 20 years, as we are talking about. We know exactly how old she is, we are proud of it, and we know that the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u131	My colleague, the amendment! Amendment to Article 1!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u132	Yes, it is an amendment to Article 1. I think I've already made it clear in the first two sentences which amendment I'm going to support and which I'm not going to support. Let me also highlight in the debate what the amendment contained in the second paragraph, which was supported by the members of the coalition on the Committee, and what it means if an agreement or letter of intent is signed by the mayor and the President of the Government and how much more or less controversial this matter is to some. I can point out that when we speak to the capital and when we talk about the municipalities and expectations of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is likely that some people in their own right that the capital of the Republic of Slovenia also has certain institutions, which we all need in the field of health, culture, education, and that it will probably not have any smaller place of the university - for some more it is right that they have - maybe Dolenj will also come to this important project, but I think it is unfair that in some cases everything is generalized only on some of the names of the person concerned, who is today the mayor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u133	Mrs. Brunskole, please proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much for the warning and I will stick to it, but I don't seem to be giving up much compared to my colleague. Of course, in certain development programmes, and in all that we have talked about - well, now is not exactly the point of road safety, but I think that all of these amendments that have been tabled here are only the reason more and I am sure that colleagues who have spoken before about the fact that there is only more reason to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, that our guests, tourists and all those who come to the capital of the Republic of Slovenia - including us, Members and Members of the National Assembly - will also feel safe here when we walk through the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, I think it is right that we do not forget in the debates when some of us talk about the fact that the Mayor of Ljubljana will be together with the President of the Government - I do not know that the President of the Government will be returning a reckoning and so on - I am surprised by some of the domesticity of the debate of some. I also believe that the development programme plan from the state budget, the President of the Government and the Mayor of Ljubljana, will obviously conclude, I think that the whole Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia still have a word here. Therefore, in some debates, let us not forget the facts which confirm the plans of the development programmes, what will be financed and what competences individual ministers have to sign certain co-financing treaties in concrete projects. So let's not just be populism-like in some debates - so that I don't repeat, but I have some debates written down about what I wouldn't even talk about, because I don't think they deserve another debate than just to say that it's wrong and not right. In other debates, fellow Members who have spoken about this before - I think Mr Miran Potrč has made it very clear that, if necessary, he will point out certain circumstances more than once. I think that even those Members and Members living in the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of which political party or option you belong to, you know very well that for the development of the capital and further work, including for the presentation of the Republic of Slovenia in the world, it is essential that certain strategic projects be supported. Therefore, I will not support the amendment of the opposition, I will support the amendment - or, as was the case with the committee - of the coalition and also the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia mainly because it is not in any way prejudice to the law on the financing of municipalities. I am convinced, however, that the Minister present here from the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development is also seeing certain shortcomings, which will also need to be supplemented in this law and in other laws. Above all, I expect and look forward to the fact that, in relation to the law on coherent regional development, we will also address certain shortcomings and establish order as soon as possible in the direction of local communities, i.e. municipalities. I am also pleased with the opinion of Mr Zanoškar when he said, as a representative of one of the municipalities in Slovenia, that it does not mean a minus or anything bad for the other municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendments, I would like to be, the President, rational, but I will start by saying that none of the amendments proposing deletion or certain paragraphs or certain articles will be necessary later. For as far as the amendment to Article 1 is concerned, I simply do not think that this is a privileged situation or I think it is right that in some way the capital also has a slightly different situation and treatment within the country. I am surprised, however, that in view of the discussions we are having today and which we are listening to - I hope that I will not be stopped - because in today's debate, we all want to talk about the capital as well as the broader issue, that it is not really a mere title. Because I think that some of the debates today are such that we simply need and do not want the capital of Slovenia, but least of all Ljubljana, in Slovenia. We don't want Ljubljana. But I have to say it's right that once we're here in the National Assembly, we're talking about this, and I think the state that we're in when it becomes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u137	Please, peace in the hall. Mr. Blackach, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u138	I don't know what I'm manipulating, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u139	Continue [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u140	But when it becomes our capital some hated city, when it becomes actually the symbol of the worst and not least, as the Ljubljana sub-district, the esteemed architect Janez Koželj said, when it becomes that you are Ljubljana and that Ljubljana is even swearing - it is his expression, very strong, so it obviously feels - I think he tells us a lot about this. Ljubljana must be the capital. Today and all the time in many other laws, in many other matters, we simply demean our capital, we are ashamed of it, we attribute everything to it. I believe that this reflects the smallness of those who talk about it and also the non-state position or non-state mentality expressed through it. In Slovenia, I think we only have the capital on paper. And it's been so many times. I think it is right that we have such articles that you would draw, including Article 1 and paragraph 2, where certain things are otherwise wanted to be dealt with. It is interesting, however, that no one protested when Janša’s previous government - or none of those who today talk a great deal about this senseless role, when in Ljubljana vehemently, with a slight change in the formula took the money. In fact, this money was taken solely because of the humiliation of the capital and also because the elections did not win the right option. I think we all expect Ljubljana together and should expect a lot. And we should expect this city to be a pearl; something that will represent us from the outside; something that we will be proud of. And that is why, of course, Ljubljana needs special status! That is why I will be happy - in this way, as this law does, perhaps in some other way - to support it. However, I cannot agree with the amendments we have before us, which they actually want and want to deny the special role of our capital. We in Ljubljana want to have all things arranged - we, Members and Members of Parliament who come to this city have already listened, from transport, dumps, looks, to central institutions. My dears, let's face it: what does this Ljubljana really have compared to another? What's he got? What did we give her in those 20s to be proud of? No, we didn't give her a chance, we didn't give her the money! We don't even have a stadium here - the halls are, I'll say, in the early days of every slightly larger Slovenian city more beautiful than in Tivoli, about which there was a talk already today - we don't have a central theatre hall, Cankar's home were built even in that South paradise, etc. In short, there is a whole range of facilities that place Ljubljana on the tail of infrastructure in Slovenia. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that we should be able to handle certain things and certain matters in a different way by means of an amendment or by means of this article. In fact, I do not understand why the capital, like elsewhere - I am sure that Vienna, Paris, Berlin and similar cities have a different status within their countries, including in regional regulation and also in certain matters, because things are going on there. And of course, if you love your capital, you are proud of it, then you will not think about certain privileges and certain things that others would be harmed with in any way. It's malicious. None will receive a tolar or a euro less. Not a cent less! There'll be no less euros. But we Ljubljanans don't want to make any progress! Why, we may be able to answer a few questions if we consider where the jaws fly and what things reflect. That is what I must say, because I think it is right that the debate is controversial and that is fine; but, my dear, the Štuči tunnel is ascribed to Mr Jankovic, but he is a little funny. The Šentwich tunnel was built by Dars, opened by the previous government, forcefully, quickly. Mrs. Zerjeva, I'm going to say, it was a shame that the next day it all crashed, and now it's saying that Jankovic is guilty, but it's a little funny. Nobody said how quickly and efficiently Jankovic restored the tunnel under the castle of Ljubljana. Sam, with his own Ljubljana funds. And that's not a story anyone would want to tell. I must say that there is a lot of deception and a bad attitude towards Ljubljana. Even though I am not a Ljubljana girl myself, I simply do not express such jealousy and "fosh" and I think that this is a small thing that we should go over here in this Parliament and take our capital for our own and be proud of it and allow it to shine. I'll give him that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You know, Mrs. Orzmova, I wasn't ashamed of anything. I wasn't ashamed of anything. I demanded that the contract deadlines be fulfilled, that's all. This is perfectly normal in the business world to respect contractual terms. Unfortunately these contractual hands have not been respected again lately, but the projects and so on Yes, now of course you will leave the hall because you do not want to listen. [[....]] This time, however, the contractual deadlines are no longer respected, just as they were not respected. It's not good for the country, you know. And both tunnels were made by the same contractor, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I protest against generalisation and speech, as the predecessor said, who said and thought of all of us: we are ashamed of Ljubljana. I am proud to have the capital and that this is Ljubljana. If she, or her client, or her former client is ashamed - perhaps the mayor of her party was really running Ljubljana like she was ashamed of the capital. See, once again, such insulting talk on the account and pointing to our site - the Demos Coalition has set up a programme on which Ljubljana has become the capital and demanded an independent state. The others were mostly against you at the time! She was a 20-year-old Demos 14 days ago. Do you think the Ljubljana mayor or anyone from the Ljubljana County came to the memorial ceremony? They were boycotting, just like you all boycotted. The values of Demos are still not at your heart today. And without Demos and this coalition, Ljubljana would not be the capital. It is not surprising that the situation is this, as it goes against the values of Slovenian spring. We are also with this second paragraph of Article 1 to be deleted - we have proof of how flagrantly the constitutional principles of equality are being violated. I am sorry and it would be really bad for Ljubljana to become the capital of Europe as a capital that violates constitutional principles in a country. We can't allow that, even if the mayor is the one who allows it, which he thinks is "state, that's me" and can dictate. And this dictatorship has achieved with this coalition that it commands everything. This article, if translated into all people, is an intrusion into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And the Slovenians still remember the first incursion into the budget. 20 years ago it was made by Milošević, on the confluence of Donava and Sava, "on the mouth" when it went directly towards Slovenia. And the Slovenians said "Serbian business" at the time. But now "Serbian affairs" have come into our marriages. "Serbian Affairs" in our laws! See, for this reason it was also said at the Assembly of the Republic that another Slovenian spring would be needed. And the second Slovenian spring was not violent, but it happened in the markets. This association on the second Slovenian spring, which appears to be necessary if you go ahead with such measures, and people will demonstrate democratically that they do not agree with this breach. For the security of the values which are the fruit of the Slovenian spring is necessary. This dictates that the services must be paid to Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic and that on the basis of these services he dictates completely, human resources and wherever he wishes, it is unacceptable. Here are mainly the mayors, Slovenj Gradca, Metlike, Radgone, former Mayor of Domžal, who said that he would not even know others. Yeah, is the budget a bottomless bag? If you take something, you won't know it? Of course, it is your citizens who will be greatly damaged, as well as others, because this money will not go for the Ljubljana needs. And I agree with what the speakers have said that this article is bad for the Ljubljana people, because it will allow incredible loans to be paid by the Ljubljanaers and all Slovenian citizens, because it is personal accounts for this intrusion into the budget. I think some have already sobered up that Mr Jankovic's dictatorship has already resisted. In the Supreme Court, his staff choice - and I regret Mr. Djordjevic - was slightly rejected. They decided that this was no longer the way Jankovic would dictate everything, human resources policy and everything. Since it is part of the financial oligarchy, it has free hands in all areas. Think about it! And here in Ljubljana, the symbols of totalitarianism are idolized. They're movin'. Last but not least, I was surprised when I last suggested that the session be suspended that we went to greet our football players and that there was also a need to sing praises to the totalitarian system on the market. I'm sorry. It's abuse, indoctrination. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I know how indoctrination works. [[...]] On the basis of these violations of the Constitution and of what is being done, which is idolized by the symbols of the totalitarian regime and this, Ljubljana has real damage and Slovenia is becoming a problem in Europe. Europe's most responsible people have noticed this. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, do not drag this violation of the Constitution from the law into legislation, because it must fall in any way in the Constitutional Court. If the Supreme Court has resisted the dictatorship, the Constitution will be even more so, be sure. Do not drag this forward, these are unconstitutional, illegal solutions that allow intrusion into the state budget for very personal and private projects and intentions and accounts. Slovenian citizens cannot accept this. And this marriage is one of the worst for Ljubljana. In this way Ljubljana cannot be promoted and saved. But on the basis of Ljubljana's becoming the capital, based on the Demos programme and Slovenian spring, it gained the most and, of course, today it also retires in the development of Ljubljana. She also had bad mayors in the past who did not build halls at the time, that is true. But they were of the kind of customers there. Don't say anything was taken from Ljubljana. The Ljubljanans were most taken with Jankovic's terrible "pufu" because it will be paid by Ljubljanans and will continue to be in debt and will be paid by others. Such unconstitutional and illegal solutions, which you have permitted in this law, are not acceptable and must not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. I must admit that I will certainly oppose this amendment to Article 1. But I would like to show how serious the purpose of our colleagues and colleagues is when they have put amendments to this law and all amendments are very short and concise and talk about how and how they take matters seriously. They simply delete the law on the capital through the amendments. But, well, I hope others have detected that, too, I won't talk about the fact that we also have a record in the constitution. A lady gave me an article a day ago, "Is Ljubljana the capital", a very famous acquaintance of local self-government. He wrote this article in 2001 and actually found out how we have actually defined, through legislation, how and how to define the city and what it should look like to be the capital in 1994. Unfortunately, as my colleague Ziherl has said, I am sorry that I will not be able to object or replicate here, because this law is dealt with in a normal procedure, not a short process, but a purely normal one. And when I listen to today's debate about how, who, who, why, and how and whether this is an intrusion into the budget or not, we allow one law, which has been drawn up for 15 years since 1994, to be redefined and redefined gradually in each mandate. I would expect a constructive contribution with content on how and how the other municipalities belonging to the Ljubljana region should be connected and so on, but I will not guess now. However, I must oppose some of my discussers when they have insulted the mayor, for whom this session will be the biggest advertisement for the next election and when some even read his nationality. I don't think it's right to insult someone through Serbian nationality. We have mayors in the world who are not born in the city and are not from the same country and so on. Let's not make this work. About isolation and what is a broader public interest. The wider public interest is very important because if we were to stick to a wider public interest, colleagues Zicherl would not have driven from Škofja Loka to Ljubljana for two hours, as he did, but would have come much faster and much easier because inter-regional connections and transport would have been arranged long ago and not as we would have to in Ljubljana with a revised strategy and a long-term plan only now. The standards and standards for the city are very clear. Those who see that Slovenia could have any other capital, perhaps like Portugal, which has a special function in addition to the capital of Porto, or else I did not hear and notice that anyone here would say that Koper could have a special function that could have been defined in the law. I welcome those who are the founders of this law, and I hope that we will be able to gather so much energy and good will that the following changes and additions to the law will also be enriched by the practice we have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Mr. Blackach, you weren't mentioned. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mrs. Brunskol? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal, i.e. that, honourable Presidents, you take into account the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because, in accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have the right to a replica, as my fellow Member, Mr Jerovšek, mentioned me as Mayor of Metlika.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u149	Mrs Brunskole, as I know, he did not mention, quote or interpret any of your statements, any of your actions, and if he mentions a function somewhere, there is no right to replica. But even though you're a lady, I allow you, exceptionally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President! Now, if that's your reason, because I'm a lady, or else I'd agree more, just to follow the rules of procedure of the National Assembly together, everything will be fine. On the basis of my fellow Member's discussion earlier, I would simply repeat words that I like very much, and I will simply repeat Mr Potræ's words when, in relation to the Main City Act, I myself stressed that Europe has a wide range of legislation regarding the main cities, by country, and that this is not something new. What I think is important for the municipalities, such as Metlika, for which I have been mentioned - no congregation and no local community is taking anything. Therefore, let us be clear here, and let us by no means deceive the people who are listening to us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u151	Mr. Blackach, would you like a replica? Who? I don't remember interpreting your statement or your action. I would like to ask you, Mr Chernač, to sign up for the debate because there are two other debaters and then there will be a chance to re-apply. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. At the outset, I would like to remind you that you have given colleagues Žerjav the opportunity to replicate, although he has not yet discussed it himself, the Rules of Procedure do not allow a replica to be given to anyone who has not discussed it, but I am joining your strict implementation of the Rules of Procedure and I welcome it. As for our debate, however, I find that the historical knowledge of many debaters is seriously lacking. Otherwise, I understand that many people don't know history more than they did in 1945 and therefore think that Ljubljana is only 20 years old. Ljubljana is the capital of the Land of Kranjska for about 1000 years, when the Counts of Spanheim, who owned Ljubljana, and the Counts of Andes, who owned Kamnika, were the owners of each other and they proved to be the most powerful relative. Even later, when Ljubljana was owned by the Habsburgs, this situation did not change, in short, Ljubljana is the capital of Kranjska for about 1000 years, as history later took place, and you know: the integration of Slovenian countries, etc. So the shortsightedness of some of the historical facts I think could also be the reason why we could self-critically exclude ourselves from the debate on things they have no idea about. Of course, there was a similar discussion, which already commented by my colleague Zalokar Orazem on the Štučina tunnel, which, of course, is not a Ljubljana thing, could also be a Ljubljana problem, but it is definitely a thing financed by the state. And since it has also been mentioned that Ljubljana, as the capital, does not care well about its infrastructure, that there is a stagnation, that fellow Members drive after two hours from 30km of remote places to Ljubljana, it is also necessary to say that the bumper which is called the Celovska road, where the places where I have also run myself are the local road, the city road, although it is, of course, the road that drives thousands and thousands of non-Ljublians every day. I claim that Ljubljana has no problems with its transport infrastructure, but of course it has a major problem with a quarter of a million Nelubljans who want to park each day with their car in its centre. This is a problem and this is, for example, one of the reasons why Ljubljana deserves special attention as its capital. I find it strange to hear how the same Members who adopted the amended Law on the Financing of the Communities, which Ljubljana has taken part in its income, now report on its indebtedness and are jealous of it because Ljubljana still carries out its statutory functions and takes care of its development, which is the only one that currently allows - in short, debt - what else should it do? It seems hypocritical now to accuse someone of still developing, even though they took away all the resources that made this development possible. And now the anger is so much worse because this plan obviously didn't work. However, I think that the amendments will also have to agree that it would be good for Ljubljana to rebuild its streets if it were to restore its markets, because these markets are likely to be needed for spring alone, because if another republic is to happen - but where it will happen, it will probably be necessary to gather in Ljubljana's markets and streets. So I think that this money will also be well invested from your point of view, because I don't think you expect that, say, Ljubljana City Hall with what coordinated action "south" will prevent such gatherings. There won't be any, believe me! Ljubljana will survive these and other protestors, all the congregators who are all welcome in it. Of course, he expects all of them to respect her too. And in this regard, the purpose of these amendments to the Main City Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u154	Nice greetings, Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues. Indeed, our discussions are interesting and, in fact, from the topic to the topic, it proves how decent Members of the Republic of Slovenia are and how we know every topic really rotate three times in a circle, that in the end no one knows what it is about - I think not here in this Chamber, except those sitting in front of the screens and perhaps even monitoring our work. Let me repeat what is in this Article 1 which is amended. Article 1 speaks of the signing by the President of the Government and the Mayor of an agreement which "has the legal nature of the letter of intent, hereinafter referred to as the definition of the tasks of the municipal and state authorities in the implementation of programmes and tasks under this law in the coming years." And other things. And in the second point, to add: "If the agreement referred to in the second paragraph of this Article provides for specific co-financing under the jurisdiction of the municipal municipality from the state budget, the municipal municipality shall be granted dedicated funds under the co-financing contract concluded with the mayor by the chairman of the direct user..." - continues. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about whether it is right for the capital to be determined and the relationship between the State and the capital to be regulated in the manner set out in this Article, or whether it should be regulated in any other way. As for Ljubljana as the capital of Slovenia, as capitals, I have already expressed my own personal position on the committee and allow me to repeat it here. I would very much like to see that Ljubljana would not compete with Maribor, Celje, Koprom primat in Slovenia, nor would I want to compete with Trieste, Graz, Celovac for some regional centres, but to compete with Rome, Vienna, Zagreb and finally become a metropolis in the true sense of the word. This requires certain attributes, which also requires a certain attitude towards this city, and above all the city must be properly organised and done in this context. That is why I am very sorry that we do not have a last prize card for this European institution today. However, I am very sorry that we do not have any financial centre, that we do not have any multinational headquarters and that Ljubljana would actually occupy that place on the map that is coming to it. I am sure that in the National Assembly, where I am convinced that all 90 Members appreciate the capital, respect it and wish it all well, but I am also of the opinion that it would be very right for them to have so much for themselves, so much for the bravery, so much for the courage, and so much for the systematicness, to come before the National Assembly and also know what the attributes the State wants to help the town with are that the city will be the way we want it to be. We in the National Assembly have adopted a law on Pomurje, in which we have written down for each peak, for each euro in particular, how it will be used, and in what way, we have only re-analysed in the past a large amount of agreed European funds into this region, added some tax reliefs and adopted a great law that I wish best and also to the Pomurs. At that time, I think that, in addition to adopting the Pomura Act, we should probably define the role that came from the White Country, to determine whether there is any other such area, perhaps in Koroška, Tolminska, Kočevska, and then in this context also to distribute funds in proportion and also in Ljubljana to devote what comes to it. I would be very happy to write down in the system law that we will finally arrange, I don't know, a railway station, suburban transport, to enable the normal life of Ljubljana, I don't know, to also define ourselves to build a national stadium, to make the Ljubljana Castle a castle to which the country will also have access in Ljubljana. We know that in the previous term, even the fact that not only the Ljubljana flag on the castle was symbolic, but also the national celebrations should not have taken place at this castle. And if we had such matters arranged and had a proposal before us, I think we could unanimously decide what kind of law we want to support and what we want to achieve with this law. Until then, I am also personally convinced that such a dictatorship, which, you want or don't want, gives rise to any concern that the two, who are the President of the Government and the Mayor, can agree, sign, and then only bring it to the National Assembly, where it is likely that it will be necessary to place it in the budget, and no matter where we take it from, or take it from any of the municipalities or ministries. These resources will have to be provided. This gives rise to some doubts and inadequacies and inaccuracies, the unsystematicity of this approach. I would be much more pleased than I said if we could adopt a comprehensive law that would also have the main programming orientations from which we could do so. I am not sure that all 23 projects, which were listed as necessary for Ljubljana, are also projects which could add national interest to them. I want all 23 of them to come true. For those for whom the country would also decide that our common interests are, or more, because I think that some of the key to Ljubljana being a metropolis is missing there, we should accept in the National Assembly. Otherwise, it also gives the coalition this way, when it offers such a law, once again more the possibility of us being led to the end in the Slovenian political space and that no one knows what he is talking about in the end. I myself will support this amendment, which is proposed. I think it would be good for the government and the coalition to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you. Since there is still an interest after the debate, I am opening an application for a debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. It was interesting to listen all the time and I think it is useful to hear another word about what is not directly related to Article 1. I would ask all those who speak or speak and who sometimes get us carried away, for the first time: by adopting the SDS amendment and deleting Article 1 we do not repeal the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm going to say it again, and maybe someone will say it again. That's what we've heard from countless speakers. That's not true. Secondly, today we are not talking about the capital law, but about changes and additions to the capital law, which should be called the intervention law on the capital. And that would be fair and there would be no debate and everyone would confirm it. Why? If we are talking about the second paragraph of Article 1, the dictatorship is very clear: "If the agreement for a programme under the jurisdiction of the municipal municipality provides for co-financing from the state budget, these funds shall be allocated to the municipality on the basis of a contract concluded with the mayor by the chairman of the direct user of the budget." Do you know what that means? But now I will translate, and with this translation, I hope that, in my own words, I will tell you what this is about and why this law is about. This means that this co-financing agreement, or this co-financing agreement, will be concluded and the $60 million recovered, either justifiably or unjustifiably, from Ljubljana last year. That's it. But only those 60 million who hurt someone will go through the law back. That's why it's necessary to have a marriage. That's exactly what this law is written for. And a second time. I would be ashamed to cry out that we have no honor, that we do not recognize Ljubljana as the capital. Why? Under A - love and respect for the capital is not expressed, nor is it expressed to people, through money and money. With what else, yes, but not with money. Don't tell me I don't like Ljubljana and I don't recognize it because someone mentioned it to me before because I don't give it to her! I respect the capital, I don't throw garbage on the floor, but I put it in a basket, I commend it, I'm thrilled with the orderliness of some things and critical of disorder. That's the attitude and respect of the capital, not the money. Why is this marriage? Ljubljana is ten times the size of my city, and it is in charge of 70 times the size of my city. That's why it's the law! To cover the city of Ljubljana through this law. Is this then a law for better and better development, for greater respect for the city? It's not! Tell me, this law is for us to return 60 million to Ljubljana and to cover our loans. Okay. And we'll take it and we'll do it! That's the truth, that's the whole truth. Proof of that truth, then I'll really shut up, but that's the one. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, an amendment was tabled at the time of the adoption of the State budget by Mr Tonet Rope to give Ljubljana €30 million in particular. Because the coalition found that this amendment would be slightly different, strange, and that "it would not go through," it was said, "amendment withdrawing, we will do it in a different way." This different one, colleagues and colleagues, is here, in this law and it would be far more fair for the amendment tabled by Mr Tone Rop to be considered and perhaps even accepted by the Ljubljana people, because I do not know if the 60 million were just or unjustifiably taken back at least 30. That would be fair. But not now to cover such debts through marriage. And if we don't support this marriage, because of course we won't, don't blame us for not loving, not respecting that we don't love the capital. We have it - with a relationship, with respect for the values it has. Despite the fact that we will give him money and the fact that Article 1 relates to Article 2, even through a new contribution rate, which clearly states that 0.73% of the income is paid, the reason that Ljubljana needs them to carry out the tasks arising from the needs of the state authorities. If the public authorities have needs, I think they have their budget lines and they cover their needs from those budget lines. And secondly, I would support such an amendment if I knew what these tasks were, but they were not listed anywhere. They made it up, because of some tasks, they would now have 0.73% of the extra income! At least we'd write! At least we could be fair enough to write what assignments. We are not as worthy of Members as we are to know. And you're asking us to put a blank signature on an empty paper. Bogdan Barovich of Trubovlje will not give it! Nor do colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. But we will sign every law, every proposal for a change to the law that will save someone from the crisis. As we have resolved with Prekmurje's intervention law, as I hope we will also solve the serious crisis in the White landscape, so I hope to save Ljubljana through the intervention law. And if we have to, if we do, we'll sign a paper with content there, and we'll never sign a blank sheet. I'm done with this, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if my colleague Barovic's claims are based on whether anything is really about trying to regulate the "ad hoc" problem that has arisen in the past due to some mistakes, but even in this case I feel better as a Member if things are legal. And they can only be legal if we operate in the light of our powers within the laws and changes of these laws. That is why I will not support this amendment, as it has turned out that the amendment is just an excuse or an opportunity for ideological debate on the capital and even more to express impatience towards the capital and especially to the mayor of this capital. All the debates we heard today about the amendment went, unfortunately, this way. Except for the last one where there were some serious thoughts, perhaps speculations or perhaps justified critical assessments. However, today's debate is mainly about the appropriateness of the mayor himself, which has even been appointed by one of the Members as a dictator. I think that this kind of hate speech at the expense of the democratically elected mayor, who will verify his popularity in the next elections in a democratic way, is not appropriate. But today we have witnessed again some of the calls that come out clearly from the instructions of the Central Committee of the SDS, which we can also call the Assembly of the Republic, where, in fact, every debate in the National Assembly is constantly being held, including the debate on such a specific issue concerning the city of Ljubljana and the capital of Slovenia, is being used or abused to prepare psychological Slovenia for street protests, for other demonstrations, although we have a Parliament, we have the opportunity to discuss all of these problems here. I think that democracy in Slovenia works and that part of democracy is also the right to use street and city spaces for demonstration. No one's going to deny that right. But when we talk about the capital, the problems of the capital, I don't think it's appropriate to go too far with ideological Flossules and try to tighten the situation, which is obviously a constant with always the same rumor, with always the same method of preparing for the big bang, the big event that is supposed to happen in the spring. But we know that democracy is so mature and so powerful that it overcomes everything, even that and no one is afraid of it. But your amendment is an amendment trying to destroy the essence of this marriage. This law is likely to remedy certain shortcomings that have arisen in the past, and this needs to be discussed. We are also interested in the reputation and functionality of the Slovenian metropolis. Ljubljana is important for all Slovenian citizens. And also for those who come from more remote municipalities, who apparently believe that in the light of a popular performance to their own constituencies, Ljubljana and especially the mayor should be mutilated. So let us stop such disqualifications, with such insults, this has been said today - you can see the magnetogram - that the mayor of Ljubljana is a dictator. Please don't allow yourself such qualifications! We are still living in a democratic society and democratic rules are also in force in Ljubljana. So, once again, I will not support this amendment, and I hope that we will finally resolve the issue that has been going on for a long time, which in fact means an unnecessary burden for Ljubljana and even Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that all those who hold the meeting of the National Assembly should make sure that colleagues from other parliamentary groups, in particular coalition groups, do not offend Members of other parliamentary groups. What Mr Juri has afforded, which comes from the other end of Slovenia, on the basis of a judgment, a working way and a way of shaping the decisions of our parliamentary group, does not belong to a democratic parliament. This is our business. Once again, we don't have a central committee in our client and we don't have a discredit in this way keep, and insults, for your parliamentary group. You have enough specimens there that are involved in a series of events, some are being investigated by even an investigative commission and it would be right to focus more on them. We also passed a law yesterday that allows some satellite and toll systems to be upgraded without public calls, and telecommunications are also within your jurisdiction. The President-in-Office of the National Assembly or the Vice-President of the National Assembly and the others, as well as the others who hold the meeting, would ask that you conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you ensure that these debates take place at an appropriate level, and that some may not allow themselves to use the language that is sometimes or so in the Jurassic Park. This is no longer the 21st century, this was the time before 1990, when you had central committees and decided there, but now I ask you to take into account the integrity of those who are Members of the National Assembly, as well as those we represent in some organised society. The other things are for you to handle at other addresses and I would also like to apologize to my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u161	Well, I don't think this was the only case you could consider an offensive act. In the National Assembly, there are quite a few cartoonists who do not know how to paint their colleagues or other customers in real terms, such as themselves, but who caricature them, degrade them. Yet, as I have mentioned many times before, the price of freedom of speech is the same. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is interesting that today we are listening to the problem of the constitutionally guaranteed right to assembly by those who are otherwise filled with the mouth of democracy and democratic freedoms. No wonder this comes from these mouths, though, if we return 19 years ago, we have heard stories from similar mouths about how we will eat grass after we have gained our independence. Now some of these lips attach to the chest of state decorations. Before I wanted to reply to Mrs Montenegro Silva in the form of a replica, I think I was entitled to it, but I respected the President's will, and this is also part of democracy and the standards that we must adhere to. I just wanted to say that she spoke again about the fact that, with the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are repealing the law on the capital, which I have already said five times today, that she is not. He also said that we have a document on the table and that everyone can read what it says in these documents. With amendments, the Slovenian Democratic Party amends Article 1 of the amendments in such a way as to propose the deletion of the new Article 5 paragraph 6 of the current law and to propose the deletion of the new Articles 6a and 6b of the current law. Otherwise, the applicable capital law remains in force in all ten articles and with the amendment of Article 5(2), as proposed by this amendment, even in force. And this amendment to the second paragraph of Article 5 brings nothing substantial new, if we are completely honest. This reduces change only to money. To the money. There is no law in this amendment. No content. Because there is no content, they will not be able to implement those programmes that the capital urgently needs. Only because of more money will the priority, not the content, not the dynamics. One part will reduce this 200 millionth hole and nothing else. That's the way the law works because of you, not because of our amendments, it's empty. It is empty, there is nothing new in it, according to the 2004 law in force. It was said that Ljubljana has a special status and this status we all recognise, in the final stage this status is established through the Constitution and through the 2004 Capital Act. However, this special status also stems from its special situation, given that there are many seats in Ljubljana of different institutions that give this Ljubljana very important added value. The last time we discussed this in the general debate, I received dozens of e-mails from citizens who told me what we were saying, however, because these institutions and all that is in Ljubljana are added value, that is no burden. Many city halls would lick their fingers if they had only a tenth of what is in Ljubljana and would not require any special resources to do so. For a decision to change the law; today there has been a lot of talk about the fact that this law is being made because Ljubljana has been taken away. Nothing has been taken away from Ljubljana and the other three municipalities that have opened a constitutional dispute! By a decision of 2007 the Constitutional Court decided unequivocally that this was not the case and that the law adopted was not unconstitutional. In the year that this happened, even Ljubljana recorded a surplus in the current balance sheet. What's interesting is that something was supposed to be taken away! This regime of change is unique, not the basic law. That's what I'm saying, and no one convinced me. A question has been asked to the competent minister in this regard before and there has been no answer. You will not find such arrangements as paragraphs 6 (a) and 6 (b) in any other arrangement. No other arrangements. However, similar arrangements as we have in the Main City Act, which has been in force since 2004, are in many countries and, of course, we have absolutely no problems. In order to show more plasticly what this is all about, it should be asked whether it is right, on the basis of these changes, that individual investments can be financed differently from in all other municipalities. Is it right that Ljubljana, Mr Jankovich as mayor, has direct access to state resources for schools, kindergartens, infrastructure, etc., and not all the other 209 mayors or municipalities? Is that right? That's probably not right. But that's what the law says. Many institutions have their headquarters in Ljubljana: from state administration, from ministries, to banks, insurance companies, many foreign business offices, embassies, the university is here, many schools, etc. These are all benefits. These are not weaknesses. However, the weakness is that all these things need to function normally or I will not say that this is a weakness, and the challenge for every city authority is to set the city in such a way that it can function normally. And I said in this part that if the content of this law were this, then of course it would be to support it, but I don't think it's necessary to change the law. To this end, an appropriate act must be adopted on the basis of which these things can be implemented. That's a matter of priority. However, the priority cannot be set by the National Assembly; only the city authority can decide in cooperation with the government. Let's say a comparison of these institutions. She was born in Primorska, you know, before the university, in 2003. And if we were to look at these matters in the same way, then the state would have to substantially contribute financially to the birth of this institution, but it is not. No, not at all! In 2003, a law was passed and only 2005 was passed which provided a basis for assisting in the provision of spatial conditions for this university. And the municipalities in the coastal area themselves provided free spaces to enable the university to be born. What's going on in Ljubljana today? In Ljubljana, however, the country from the city municipality, from Mr Jankovic, buys a fusion castle for EUR 5 million. What for? While there is no money for the programme, there is no call for proposals and I don't know what; but the Ministry of Culture has found overnight that this fusion castle can buy, which is part of the infrastructure in the field of culture, which is in the public interest, which is so-called public good. It's something like if the state of Yankovic bought the Celovska road. This is nonsense. I'm sorry, and I'd cover this 200 million hole. Theoretically, on the basis of this law, and beyond it, I could have done it. You don't even need this marriage. Just as it was concluded at the fusion castle, it may be decided to buy this road and the matter is resolved. Please, this is not a substantive approach, this is not a systemic approach! With regard to the perceptions of how we are looking at this matter; I do not know how you are looking, this year at the edge of the Ninth Congress, on 9 May 2009, which was in Ljubljana, we adopted a resolution on the capital, you will find it on the SDS.si website., I recommend you to read it, because in it you will find a number of answers to the substantive questions and to the substantive problems that Ljubljana is currently facing. You don't have to copy, you can sign similar solutions yourself, we won't blame you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Yuri wanted a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u164	Mr President, given that the request for an apology has been suspended, I also propose and demand that the Member who has made an insult at the expense of the absent mayor be appointed dictator to make a public apology to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm opening the application. The application for debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article shall be pending. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have heard many words today about how the city authorities have been deprived of their power by amending the law on local self-government. The Constitutional Court has issued a decision and also a reference that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said, should do so at the end of its term of office, has been available all year now to carry out a certain solution in the Local Self-Government Act as regards the case concerning the financing of municipalities. I note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Pahorje government in this term, has done absolutely nothing this year to eliminate the non-compliance of Articles 8, 11, 14, 23 and 38 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Nothing. This is a fundamental law on the basis of which all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia are financed. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition have a serious intention to prepare anything in the field of municipal financing, including the Ljubljana Municipal Municipality, then it should regulate and comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on these articles, which the Constitutional Court has found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. And you didn't do anything about it. Instead, you come with a change in the law on the capital, where you try in some unusual way to avoid a proper amendment to the law on the financing of municipalities. It is precisely what you should do, and you have entered into a coalition contract to prioritize the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But they don't. You didn't do what you were supposed to do. What you bring with the amendment of the capital law, in fact, means that you will now in some unusual way, in a way that does not have the appropriate comparative basis with other similar solutions, try to remedy the negative operating balance of this mandate in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Despite the fact that none of the large 22 projects that were presented to the public as Mr Jankovic's electoral programme, with the dates of implementation, with all the necessary issues regarding the pre-election programme, has been implemented, as we hear, been more than 100 million euro deficits in the city budget. Nevertheless, we do not have stadiums, we do not have parking spaces, we do not have, I do not know which major projects were written there, but nevertheless 200 million Euros of deep hole or 200 million big hole. That's a big problem. And how the operations in the Municipality of Ljubljana are carried out, we might be able to say those who were once the officials of the Municipality of Ljubljana, who performed sub-disciplinary functions in the municipality in previous mandates, at the turn of this millennium. We would be able to tell how they performed their tasks in the implementation of the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality and why the characteristics of all the city authorities were ineffective by this mandate. And this is also ineffective because it has no realisation, a whole bunch of small streets are dug up in Ljubljana, and big projects that are supposed to mean something in Ljubljana are not yet. They are not available, for some even licences have not been issued. I wonder how it is possible for a city congregation of Celje or some city municipality of Maribor to easily make a stadium for 10,000 viewers with a substantially lower budget. The city municipality of Ljubljana, with such an enormous budget, is unable to do so in the mayor's mandate as the best manager, not only among the mayors, you presented him as the best manager among the managers as well - and this has not happened! I wonder how it is possible that such capital projects set up by the current mayor, who is considered to be the manager, the manager man, one of the best in Slovenia, could not achieve this. I wonder how we should assess the call to people who were given months ago not to buy apartments, because housing prices will fall below 2,000 euros by the end of the year and at the same time signed a contract of 17 million euros for the purchase of apartments at the price of 2,500 and several euros. I wonder how much we can trust people who tell us such things. Now we have listened to much of the time, especially at a time when we decided on new congregations that small congregations were unable to finance themselves. I find that the Municipality of Ljubljana is incapable of self-financing! She's not capable of self-financing. That's why you're coming with some lobbyist law to try to solve what else to get rid of. This is not how we save small congregations, but they live and do their projects. Few have gone into some trouble in implementing their plans. Ljubljana has sunk into this, we can say that it is already living mud and does not save and implement its projects and does not react in the same way. If anything needs to be regulated at systemic level, the respected coalition should be amended by the Law on Community Financing, such as the Constitutional Decision. All that we are solving now is past the legal basis and Ljubljana, with these solutions that you are proposing, I note that it will have three or four ways, four forms of funding, in addition to what the law on the financing of municipalities gives it, financing through public calls and financing specific contracts between the Minister of State and the Municipality of Ljubljana. Oh, shit. Any Member or Group of Members will put something into the National Assembly as an amendment to the budget of some 30 million, as was the attempt in this mandate. This is probably not the way to work and it is difficult to talk about the equality of all Slovene municipalities. It is also difficult to speak or very uncreditable to say that small congregations are unable to carry out their tasks. They are executed, not one of them needs to be done, as he says, by the Municipality of Ljubljana and as you assign the Municipality of Ljubljana. None of these small congregations need this. You don't want to give it to her if you need it. Even those municipalities that need state consent, such as the Municipality of Maribor, for projects of European or even global importance such as the European City of Culture or the University have difficulty getting ten times or 20 times the amount that you will now give to the Municipality of Ljubljana after a special solution. I wonder about many things, including the common sense of those you suggest. And there's something else. I'm in the introduction - and I apologize, if there's an insult, I apologize. Also in the introduction, before I applied for the debate, I asked the distinguished minister to give me only two similar cases, as we are now taking him through or taking him through this legal provision of this law, this amendment to the law. He didn't count a single case. Not a single one! I have to say that since the first time I started this, I am actually surprised that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been able to answer the simple questions in one hour: Is there any other example in Slovenia between municipalities or in another area where funding is so relaxed? So that we don't then hear a story about the transparency of spending public funds so that we don't listen, the story that I don't know how to set things right, just like some lawyers on the other hand, you know how to say it many times. When we suggest something, the problem is the comma, when you propose something, you go past the Constitutional Court's decision and solve matters, no problem! We would like to see that all those who have some continuity of work in the National Assembly and adequate legal knowledge have in their debates and, when you look at something, the same vats as the proposals proposed by the opposition and the coalition. I'd expect that from all of them. Otherwise, I wonder if we can even talk about any legal arrangements in this country if this is how we deal with matters. For the Municipality of Ljubljana in one way and for all other municipalities in Slovenia in another way. It took 5 months for the municipality of Maribor to sign a bail for the university project, which was assessed in a period of time as a project that brings perspective and development, including tourism - visibility, promotion of the country. In this way, some infrastructure, sports and other would be built in an appropriate way, including with the help of European funds, and without a problem over all the calls, over all the assessments and assessments, 60 million euros will fall or more, probably more, because if we want to cover 200 million and so enormous a jump in the indebtedness of the Ljubljana Municipality in this mandate, much more resources will be needed. But the problem of all those who propose this remains: the operation of the Ljubljana Municipality is ineffective, untransparent. The Court of Auditors' report, which came to the table yesterday, also shows that these matters are not happening in the right way. In fact, an analysis of the Court of Auditors’ report, a comparative analysis of whether, in all cases and in all the difficulties identified by the Court of Auditors in the infringements, the same measures should also be made. If such a measure had been found or irregularities had been found, for example, at the time when I was mayor in the municipality of Ribnica, I would have received a negative opinion and probably also a proposal for discharge. So much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Minister Gjerkesh made a statement. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to inform the honourable Member that I have answered a question addressed to me or the Government, but unfortunately it was not in the Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I will stress once again that I will stick to the amendment and I will not talk about other things, in many things also the unrealistic and even half-insinuation that my colleagues have enjoyed. See if there is anything new in the law, why then, except for one paragraph, all the articles must be deleted. Because I'm saying that it's all about new things. Are they acceptable to those you object to? Probably not. But they're new. It is new that it is indisputably stipulated that the availability and determination of funds must be transparent. It is new to separate the financing of new investments from the ongoing financing of certain activities. 2. Articles 6a and 6b of the Act refer to the financing of current tasks and are new, useful for Ljubljana because they provide 0.73% of the income for these tasks. This may be wrong for you, but only Ljubljana, through a study by the Ministry of Local Self-Government, has shown that in some areas it consumes significantly more resources per capita for certain purposes because of its functions as the capital. And that was the reason why this system of additional funding was introduced. This has nothing to do with the old debts, nor with the reduction in the volume of funds brought by the amended Law on the Financing of Local Communities. And if you're saying that this is supposed to be a compensation; the ratio of the lost assets to the amount obtained after a percentage of 0.73 is about 1 to 4. Be precise for once, at least roughly, and do not give up to make your statements pompous, to talk about things far from the truth. I will end with this because I do not want to open up new questions, but I will be terribly grateful if you will also stick to the darkness in the opposition and not talk about all the things that have happened now, some time or 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you. It's still an interest in the debate. I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u172	I regret to say that the Minister is no longer here, obviously he is no longer interested in the subject because he has not answered the question raised by my fellow Member, Mr Tank. He didn't answer the question. He replied formally, but he did not give an answer after the contents of the reply, and I am sorry. I have a magnetogram here so I don't waste my time, I won't read it. He talked about these formalities that we can read in the explanation of the law. There was a specific question as to where there is another case, as set out in paragraphs 6a and 6b of the law, in Slovenia and outside Slovenia. There is no such case, so the Minister could not answer that question. We are now talking about the amendment to Article 1, not Article 2. We're not talking 0.73%. We'll get there, we'll have time to explain how wrong and distorted this system is, how unsystemic and unconstitutional. We are now talking about an amendment to Article 5. This is Article 1. And we are talking about the amendment to Article 1 where it says that an agreement between the Government or the President of the Government and the mayor will agree on how much and what and where there are no limits. On the basis of what will be classified each year as NRPs on the site of the city and which will be classified as NRPs on the side of the country, the stories will be financed. Of course, they will only have to be financed by the State, so taxpayers. And these taxpayers are right to know today how much and why they're going to give that money. Will they have better housing conditions in Ljubljana with these funds? Will they have better traffic in Ljubljana with these funds? Will these funds give them cleaner air in Ljubljana, which is increasingly polluted? Will these funds only satisfy some of the semi-private entrepreneurial interests of individuals that will cause urban city degradation and everything else that has been going on in recent years? These are questions that we should have answers to and that are not available today. The mayors of all the other 209 municipalities, however, ask whether they are less valuable because they have to apply for and do not receive funds for the co-financing of individual projects because they are not available because there are no funds or even no invitations to tender. 2,600 children, said the minister a while ago in the National Assembly, remained at the door of kindergartens. Due to the absence of any calls for this purpose, European funds are available. They are available and there is no invitation to tender, for which reason the former minister was forced to resign because she wanted to do something, and another minister or his right hand prevented it. And that's what this article says. As a result, we have proposed that this part, which is non-systematic, be deleted in order to remain what is otherwise written in the second paragraph of Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? You weren't appointed, you can't replicate. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? I am opening applications for debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. In this mandate, when adopting the budget, we had an amendment of EUR 25 million to regulate housing policy in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Can any of the proposers of this law tell me in which municipality in the Republic of Slovenia we have also financed the construction of apartments in this way, as proposed by the amendment tabled by the coalition MPs. [[The ad in the hall.]] It was not accepted, but you suggested, some of you even insisted to the end on voting with your signatures, including Mr Anderlič. Do you know, fellow Members of the National Assembly - Mr Deputy Mayor, formerly, Kolarič would certainly remember - another example such as to say that we are financing a project in the Republic of Slovenia in a very different way than other municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. What you are proposing in this solution is exactly the same. Although it is not in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, it goes beyond the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, past the Budget Implementation Act, and this will only happen on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Space or the Housing Fund and the Municipality of Ljubljana. It is similar in the cultural field, similar in the transport field and in all other budgetary areas governed by the budget. And it's all over the Budget Implementation Act. Yes, gentlemen, you suggest. And I believe that no authority, including this Ljubljanan, deserves such a protective approach by anyone in this country. That's why we have a constitution, so we have laws, so we have general laws to regulate these solutions equally. But if you are a coalition that has to do something for someone, and obviously you have to do something for someone, then such solutions are normal. Mr Potč, I would also expect you to let the speaker speak his mind to the end, but you are the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and you are jumping into the floor. It is therefore necessary to consider whether the solution proposed by the Government and supported by the coalition is the same for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia or is protectionist. In our opinion, it is protectionist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Run, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u176	Mr. Tanko, I apologize for the incoherence of your incoherence. You requested an apology when the SDS Central Committee was mentioned and you stated that it was a matter of settling accounts in respect of this law. This is also a grave lie and an insult. And you didn't just say it for the first time, you're all talking about it. Let's have about as much as you say, the same watts and what you don't expect from others, don't do on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u178	Once again, it is necessary to reiterate why this amendment cannot be accepted. Because he deletes what he fixes, he improves the existing law: to determine that the tasks assessed by the Government and the mayor, the mayor of the city, the city council, are important, common for the good of the countries, for the benefit of the state, its institutions and so on, and for the city. Who will do anything about it and who will and how much money will be provided and how will this be controlled? Whether you like Ljubljana or don't like it, as you say, you don't like the mayor, you don't like anything. This is a folklore that needs to be understood. I am only sorry that one of the Members has disappointed me because he has not carried out all the conspiracy theories to the end, so that he can explain what the hell is more and where all the things that need to be done with this law are, and then everything will be fine and the bills will be paid. But when I look at the first paragraph or the second and sixth paragraphs, which are the subject of Article 1 of this Article of the current law, it is undeniable that it is a matter of dealing with issues which are in the interest of Slovenian citizens and citizens who are in the interest of the Slovenian Government, its effectiveness in carrying out public affairs. I would even say that this is an obligation of the city council, not just for the benefits. More like a commitment. Because if she's going to have to settle for a period of time, I don't know, land, I don't know what else. After all, you know that some of the locations in Ljubljana are reserved by the state, if you drive in Vienna, you will see the whole carriage before that decaying stadium to the right, where it was once envisaged that, I think, the Ministry of Interior or some other authorities will be. Ljubljana, because the country has not made the appropriate programme and has not implemented it, nor has it agreed with Ljubljana what and how this land should continue to be used, was there, I think it was destroyed there once in the 1990s. And there are other cases like this. This country has a lot of buildings, outposts, use of communication, use of energy, use everything to function. It's true, everyone pays taxes, everyone pays some things that come along so they can function. And that's in plus town. But it's not about giving someone something or being a humanitarian institution to other institutions, it's about two sovereign entities talking about how things are going to be regulated in accordance with other regulations. Article 2 and Article 6(5) are essential to make these matters clearer and therefore, by deleting, in fact, we return to Article 5, Article 5 remains unchanged and, in the opinion of both the State and the City, both inoperable, unusable and is only a letter on paper. Laws always work by improving some existing state. And here, I mean, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss this article and the amendment to this article? There's still interest, so I'm opening applications. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u180	I think it is necessary to repeat that the second paragraph is deleted with the amendment and not the first paragraph. The first paragraph, and thus the second paragraph of Article 5 of the current law, which states that "the President of the Government and the Mayor shall sign an agreement which has the legal nature of the letter of intent to define the tasks of the municipal and state authorities in the implementation of the programmes and tasks under this law," remains. However, the part that speaks of "signing a contract with which the State provides funds" is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The municipality of Ljubljana has been a long-standing city since I can remember. I understand that the objectives set are high because it is a desire for pre-election promises to be fulfilled. But I don't think it's a good time right now, it's not the right time to accept something that all the congregations dream about, and they're not going to get these wishes and needs that citizens have through the state budget. We also have the second largest city in the country, Maribor, which has never received such attention as Ljubljana. I'd rather say he's being blocked in development. Let me go through Ljubljana's finances a little bit. The debt of the Municipality of Ljubljana and its legal entities is almost 40% of the debt of all 210 Slovene municipalities. According to June this year, Ljubljana has almost €95 million in debt and legal entities in the public sector have an additional 87 million and a half. The total debt exceeds €180 million and the total debt of Slovenia amounts to 475 million. I have already mentioned the capital of loans, where interest is not included and no additional EUR 15 million is included, and an additional debt of EUR 31 million this year at the time of the rebalancing, which is already agreed upon by the Ministry of Finance, which means an additional 16 million European loans by the end of the year. The Public Finance Act provides that public institutions and public undertakings whose founder is a municipality may be in charge and issue guarantees designated by the municipal council. As can be seen from the available data, all these public institutions, which are heavily indebted under the auspices of the Municipality of Ljubljana. As set out in the law, this is not contrary to the obligation under the Public Finance Act. Of course, it is worrisome that some public institutions are in debt, and in the final stage the state will have to solve the financial problems of the Ljubljana Municipality, which is the founder of all these public institutions. One of these is the Public Housing Fund, which is in charge of EUR 36.2 million, with 3.5 million short-term loans. The proposed law aims at complementing the current regulation of the State and the Municipality of Ljubljana, which until now should not be regulated by the financing of the agreed development programmes of the Municipality of Ljubljana from the state budget. That's the problem. That's why I think it's right for the SDS amendment to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Application for discussion on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We propose deleting this article because it introduces the financing of something that does not have any costs for the Municipality of Ljubljana. The second paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on the Capital City refers to the headquarters of national authorities, organisations of national interest, foreign diplomatic representations, foreign consulates, international organisations and representatives of international organisations. And this Article provides for an additional share of the income for co-financing the tasks of the Municipality of Ljubljana in accordance with this. What are these tasks? I don't see any of these institutions that would have any buildings from Ljubljana City Hall, any space in free rent. Far from it. In order to have any specific costs in this respect, there are benefits. The benefits are that people in these institutions, embassies, state authorities, international organisations and representations can get jobs, pay and improve their standards. These are advantages. These are not weaknesses. Why, then, should something that is an advantage in some environment, even in addition to the state budget, if there is no expenditure, be financed?Oh, my God! There's no need. It's 15 million euros of state money a year. That is why we propose that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Kolarich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Of course, the SDS amendment to delete the article will not be supported. I will, of course, support the basic text, which says that the capital gains 0.73% of the income paid in the preceding year, and Article 6b, which is supposed to be added to the Main City Act, speaks more about the methodology for how this happens. I must say, I was very pleased to have been mentioned several times before. I'm happy, in the noodles, including what I was doing as a mayor in this capital. That's a little replica, if you'll excuse me, because you didn't give me your word before. Of course, I don't mean to explain what I was doing. I don't think it's enough time for 46 minutes to count everything I've done in this capital. If anyone wants me to explain to him what I was doing, I can tell him at this point or after the session. But I certainly don't think I'm talking about this right now. Maybe even the fact that no one has a similar system in Europe. Of course, you have no idea, I use this word on purpose, if anyone, I have had quite a few contacts with the mayors of the European Union's capitals, as well as other cities, in the second part where they are not yet members of the EU. After all, I have participated in more than fifteen international conferences of mayors or representatives of the main cities of the European Union, and I can tell you that such or similar systems of capital status have, so to speak, all EU members. But we want the Ljubljanaers bad, not good. Unfortunately, everywhere, even in Europe, the capitals are destined to hate them. This is also the case in other EU countries. I don't think that Ljubljana is, I don't, I don't find the right word, I don't think there's any need to defeat Ljubljana. The development of Ljubljana will also drag Slovenia forward and not work on the fact that Ljubljana will only be lagging behind and will not be the vehicle for the development of the further development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you. First of all, Mr Kolarič, if you had expressed your wish for the replica, you would have got the word, but you didn't, which is why the obvious does not apply. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u188	Dear colleague Kolarič, you said we had no idea about these comparable arrangements. Since we have been in the National Assembly for some time now, it is best to overexamine this observation. And that's what I'm gonna do. I have specifically said that such a law as we have on the capital since 2004, with similar solutions, is also possible to find in other countries. But that what is brought into it by these changes and additions that we have today on the table, that this is nowhere to be found. And there was no specific answer to the explicit questions raised on several occasions, where we could find anything similar. By the way, we are not in the State Council, Mr Kolaric, we are in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you. I see a desire to discuss it. I'm opening the application. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u190	In a way, I am surprised at how easily you can defend certain discriminatory solutions that this law brings to other municipalities in this area, regardless of the respect we all have for the legislation that has been adopted. However, such ad hoc solutions as this, are an additional source of income, so that some institutions that are a priority for the capital will in some ways be co-financed, indeed, by a large carry-over. 15 million euros more money for all these representations and ministries to have some support. This is really a spit in the eyes of all the other mayors and municipalities in this Slovenia. I don't know a congregation or a mayor who doesn't want to have a civil service. Therefore, the congregations are willing to give free space only to receive additional services, additional promotions, and so on. In the capital you are talking about giving extra money to build some accommodations, some wanted the capital to be promoted. The capital is already being promoted because of all the institutions it has and does not need additional co-financing for this. There are no comparable arrangements. Mr. Secretary didn't answer that question. I, too, expect his answer, where are these solutions that you so advocate. Something else you mentioned that the capital needs to get some additional resources to develop. Obviously you're not looking at the statistics. The municipality of Ljubljana is always in indexes in front of all other parts of our country's adultery. And you insist on getting an additional source from an address, from some non-systemic solution where "kobayagi" is lagging behind the rest of Slovenia. That's a lot of gibberish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Run, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the content of Article 2 of the new 6.a and b article relates to the performance of certain tasks that all municipalities have, including all municipalities, and that it has, due to the functions of the Ljubljana capital, disproportionately more, with high costs, so it was prepared at the Government, in the Ministry, a study that showed this and we all received it in the preparation of the law, so you can challenge the study. Just talk about that it's not really so far until you prove with some arguments, you just can't. In particular in the field of housing and social activities, in the field of education, in the field of culture, in the field of social protection and where it has been calculated together that the cost per capita in the Municipality of Ljubljana, compared with other municipalities, is not all because the scope of the functions is, of course, higher by 46%, I stress once again, per capita, and this was also the starting point on which the text of Article 6a and b was prepared. You can wave your hand, you can say you know everything, nobody knows everything, not even you, although sometimes it's such an impression, given the remarkable engagement, but these are the reasons. And if we delete this, then we will make an important substantive addition to the capital law impossible, then it will remain, as you like to stress, only the second paragraph of Article 5. When we speak of him, Mr President, can we just say one more sentence about Article 5? Then it must be said that if we read the existing text of the second paragraph, and this new one, there is hardly any difference between them except the sequence of words. This means that by keeping it, you do nothing to supplement the law, but you leave the law as it was adopted five years ago, and you make all the news impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you. I can see the hand. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u194	It is true, it is not possible to know everything and we do not know everything, and you, Mr Potts, do not know everything. You're proposing this second paragraph, because we're not proposing it. We have said that it should remain, we have proposed that the others remain and that the sixth indent of Article 5 be deleted, as this is clear. And I said that you don't really change the text. And now you've confirmed my conclusion. Thank you very much. With regard to Article 6a. I'd really like a reply from the competent minister here. What does this mean, as stated in Article 6a? Specifically, which are these tasks and programmes, which need to be co-financed from the state budget with 15 additional millions of euros per year. Since it says Article 6a does not speak of these apartments and of what you have been saying, respectable Mr Potsch. That's what Section 5 is talking about. This 6. is talking about another. In order to finance the tasks and programmes by which, within the framework of its competences, it provides, in accordance with Article 6 of this Law, the conditions for the functioning of the bodies and organisations and the representations referred to in Article 1 of this Law. Article 1 of this Act speaks of state bodies, organisations of national interest, foreign diplomatic representations, foreign consulates, international organisations and international organisations. What, then, are the tasks to be financed by these additional 15 million in relation to these bodies? Actually, which one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The specific tasks co-financed are: to provide conditions for the operation of one of the state authorities, the organisation of national interest, the foreign diplomatic or consular representation, the international organisation or the representation of such an organisation and beyond. The law in Article 6 in force imposes on the State authorities and the authorities of the municipality the duty to cooperate and coordinate the performance of the tasks under its competence in order to ensure the conditions for the work and needs of the State authorities, the organisations of national interest, foreign representations, international organisations and so on. The tasks of spatial planning, environmental protection, service and public services, as well as other services provided by the municipal authorities and its public service providers, are to be provided in a smooth and lasting manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you. I see interest and I'm opening a report. We are still essentially in Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Of course, I did not get an answer, a concrete answer to a specific question. All of these tasks, as mentioned in Article 1, are not increased and therefore no additional resources are needed by any authorities. Spatial planning is completely irrelevant whether the area is being processed, probably the area of the entire Ljubljana Municipality is being processed and there are also all these institutions within this area and there is no additional need for this because it is being done. And everything else is the same. Thus, it is only necessary to realize that we are increasingly coming to confirm what we said at the outset. This amendment is the law on payment of pre-election services to Mr Zoran Jankovic with the status of the ruling coalition of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you. Who else would like to discuss this article and the amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to Article 3 and to the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. There are no applications, so I am concluding Article 3. We are moving on to Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mr. Anderlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u200	I won't support this amendment either. Perhaps even because the amendment to Article 5 has not been tabled, because it is inconsistent, because if you seriously thought that everything should be deleted, then you would have deleted the last article. Why would they publish in the Official Journal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia, the second is dealt with, or other treatment would then be no longer, and one article where it would have been written that this law would have entered into force the next day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. This is really inconsistent for me, and Article 4 states what is both formal and practical in every law, if any sub-law is to be issued, and only determines that this is within 30 days of the law being enforced. And I don't understand why we should delete that. However, I believe that with those previous articles that have been tabled to delete all the other articles, you have not yet said the last word and that we can expect a change by evening and that you will withdraw them, judging by the decline in attention, perhaps it is time to think about it, so I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you. I can see the hand. I am opening the application for Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u202	I will also hear this comment, my dear colleague Potrce, because, as your President has said, I do not wish to undermine our good relations. 3. and paragraphs 4 and 4 of the amendment to Articles 3 and 4 have been proposed in conjunction with the amendment to Article 2, since Articles 3 and 4 are related to Articles 2 and it is logical, therefore, if the amendment was proposed to Article 2, they must also be to Articles 3 and 4. Otherwise, this amendment has five articles; it would remain the first article to amend the second paragraph of Article 5 of the existing law and, of course, the last article to provide for the application of this amendment in the Official Journal. But speaking of content, of what is supposed to be the substance of this law, I have said many times today that what you are proposing does not also bring content. It brings some increase in state resources for the Municipality of Ljubljana, but it does not bring some content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you. At first, did Mr. Montenegro mean Mr. Anderlich? Mr. Runt? Then I apologize. You don't want a replica? Good. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 4 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th agenda or at the latest one hour and 10 minutes after half a night. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a resolution on the strategy for the Adriatic. The motion for a resolution was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Luke Yuri. I give the floor to the representative of the motions for motions for a resolution by Dr. Luka Jury for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In Slovenia we like to stress that we are a maritime state. We also like to stress what is the advantage of Slovenia being a maritime state. The moment has come that, in addition to the fact that we have privileges, we are also aware of our responsibilities. To be aware of the responsibilities we have towards the common sea and the responsibilities we have to manage this sea until next generations. The sea is different from the mainland. The sea, by its nature, is dynamic, moving and therefore sea basins must be jointly managed so that this management can be effective. The European Union has already found this and has decided years ago that the countries of the so-called sub-European regions will be able to jointly formulate regional seas strategies. So we already have a strategy for the Baltic Sea and we expect to have a strategy for the Adriatic in a few years. This resolution seeks to provide guidance to the Government on how to set up two neighbours, soon both European neighbours, Italy and Croatia, as well as other countries of the Adriatic basin, in order to formulate a well-functioning and forward-looking resolution on the Adriatic Strategy. In the presentation that will follow during the debate, we will also see some of the main facts to which the resolution is being defined. I will only quickly say that in the eight paragraphs, the eight chapters of the Government, we want to call on the Government to define the North Adriatic as a protected area, to establish a resolution by becoming the basis for any environmental and economic activity on the Adriatic and to decide, in this context, that joint economic and energy projects that have a greater dimension than just urban, local or national will be developed together. These include, for example, the issue of gas terminals, which has been up to date for so long because the resolution lays down two clear conditions under which gas terminals can be put. One is that these are appropriately remote from the densely populated coasts, as an example, the entire Slovenian coast is densely populated, and are not located in closed bays such as the Straza Bay. By establishing these two conditions, let us make it impossible for the lobbies to achieve, through their financial pressures, the placement of dangerous objects in areas that are not suitable for this. However, I think that everything else will make sense in the debate to define it better. I would just like to call on you to focus the debate on the resolution on its environmental dimension, which is horizontal. From an environmental dimension, we can then move on to all other dimensions of human life, especially the economic dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the board, Brady Pecan. [[She's not here.]] So she'll join us later. We're moving on to the government representative. I give the word "magic." Mr Zoran Kus, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia welcomes the active role played by the National Assembly in addressing the contents of the comprehensive operation with the maritime and coastal areas of the Adriatic. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the initiative to draw up a strategy for the Adriatic is in line with the European acquis, in particular with the implementation of the European Marine Strategy Framework Directive, which requires EU Member States to develop sub-regional strategies for the sustainable management of coastal and marine resources along the common seas. This task is in line with the efforts and priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen regional cooperation for sustainable operation with coastal maritime areas for a better quality of life at sea. The motion for a resolution is in line with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mitigation and adaptation to climate change and with the views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia in the process in the European Union at international level between the European Union countries and also the candidate countries for the EU and non-member countries in the region. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore welcomes the initiative to organise a multi-lateral conference of the Adriatic States, which would create common starting points in the field of environmental protection, economy, tourism, energy, fisheries and other activities that are strongly linked to the use of the Adriatic coastal and marine areas. With regard to concrete activities in the northern Adriatic, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that chapter 8 of the resolution adequately addresses and stresses respect for international and European rules on environmental protection, safety, transport and so on. It is necessary to ensure the implementation and enforcement of the foreign policy priorities of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the objectives pursued by the European acquis, and can only be achieved and implemented on the basis of consensus and good neighbourly relations. In view of the above, the resolution of the National Assembly is a referral to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate activities in the field of the protection of the Adriatic and to support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to implement the priorities, while at the same time taking up the proactive position of the Republic of Slovenia within the EU through an appropriate approach to solving problems and challenges for the effective implementation of maritime and maritime policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u208	Your Honor! The motion for a resolution came about in a specific time and circumstances that suggest that Slovenia is more actively addressing certain issues, such as protecting and protecting the environment, consistently implementing it at home and, together with its neighbours, trying to ensure that there are no cross-border impacts on the environment that could make it worse. This is already the second item on the agenda of the National Assembly at the time of the Copenhagen Summit. We had a declaration on Slovenia's more active role in preventing climate change and improving the environment. Now we've got this. However, this smallness is more topical than it is, although the declaration is long-term and goes far, it is necessary to say, in the case of the one who might have such a starting point, that the current situation in the Gulf of Markets is a matter of the intentions of the Italian State and the local communities regarding the establishment of gas terminals, that we do not have a good cooperation with the neighbour in determining the impact. Some studies and analyses also appear in the public, denouncing even the official representatives of the country. Ministers of the Slovenian State and the Italian State shall meet. There's no movement. Ensure that if it comes and when it comes, I hope not, until certain terminals are set up, but some politicians in Italy, both in the government and at the provincial level, ensure that things move forward. That is why I believe, and in the Liberal Democracy Club, that this resolution should have more binding effects on the Government than any other act adopted at the level of a resolution or declaration. We believe that we should devote the same weight to these issues as we do to the arbitration agreement on regulating the border between Slovenia and Croatia. We believe that an initiative should be given to both Italy, Croatia and other Adriatic countries to simply conclude an agreement, a binding agreement, how we will do it, not only by unilaterally calling. This is useful, so we will also support this resolution, but we would be sad if we did not succeed in a specific case, which I have already mentioned, properly dealt with and, together with a neighbor, for now with a neighbor, another one who will have similar ambitions may appear tomorrow, and some ideas are acceptable even for some in Slovenia, but if it were Krk, it would be good and acceptable, but Zavlje is not, and so on. That's not a real discussion. We believe that between countries, as well as the European Union, the UN and the like, as well as the various summits at non-governmental and governmental levels, we need to note how we need to act when it comes to the issue of the environment, when it comes to the issue of security and matters related to economic development, by planning some things at the premises. It would be unacceptable for the Liberal Democracy here, regardless of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment and Space is doing, as well as for the Slovenian Government, to have one, two or more terminals built in our neighborhood, or in our premises, now with the adoption of this act. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] North Adriatic. [[..]] We'll support the act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a resolution on the Adriatic, which was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Luka Yuri. The resolution on the Adriatic Strategy provides an appropriate basis for the preparation, creation and adoption of a strategy for the Adriatic, as the logical consequence of some has laid down the new Maritime Strategy Directive adopted in December 2007 and published in 2008. This Directive requires all Member States to develop maritime strategies for their seas, but also supports the possibility of preparing regional strategies. A similar strategy has already been prepared for the Baltic Sea, Slovenia has already announced at the meeting of the mixed Adriatic Commission at the end of the Slovenian Presidency that the preparation of such a strategy has already been announced, as the need to protect the sea is strongly present because the requirement to record all problems that are well regulated and addressed jointly with neighbouring countries is first with the Member States and then with all other countries bordering the Adriatic Sea. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that all necessary measures must be prepared and agreed on to protect and protect the Adriatic Sea. The present resolution, however, advocates the preservation of the environment in that area, since only this can contribute to sustainable development, to improving the quality of life and health of the population, on the one hand, and to maintaining opportunities for economic development, on the other hand, because only those sectors that are environmentally friendly and people-friendly, including tourism and fisheries, are considered. The document provides for a strong environmental component. The Group of Social Democrats considers it particularly important that, in order to ensure the above-mentioned requirements, the resolution refers to respect for the Mediterranean Strategy for Sustainable Development and to the conclusions of the meeting of the mixed Slovenian Croatian Italian Commission for the Protection of the Adriatic Sea and Coastal Areas. As the basis of the Adriatic Strategy, we refer in particular to the Framework Directive on the EU Maritime Strategy 2008, 56EC, the Joint Declarations of all the Adriatic States on the protection of the Adriatic Sea and the Mixed Slovenian-Italian and Croatian Commission on the Protection of the Seas of the Adriatic Sea and Coastal Areas and on Pollution and the Comprehensive Management of Coastal Areas in the Mediterranean. The strategy highlights its high range by predicting the emergence of a European Maritime Strategy for the Adriatic, which has similar high environmental standards. It is clear that the strategy gives stronger emphasis to the North Adriatic and, among other things, it has ambitions for the Government to presuppose that the area is even more suitable and more difficult to protect and introduce this protection into the emerging strategy. The most powerful part of the resolution is the seventh paragraph, the purpose of which is to examine the installation of gas terminals for liquefied natural gas along Slovenian territorial waters, in the wider area of the Gulf of Markets, which is a strong formulation for an act of such content. The Parliamentary Group expects the Government, in accordance with the applicable international rules, conventions and documents, to clearly and unequivocally represent and represent the interests of environmental protection and the people in the northern Adriatic region and to include all of this in the development of the Adriatic Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u212	Your Honor! Also on behalf of the SDS Group, a very nice greeting! The resolution on the Adriatic Strategy can be an important document if it responds to the key challenges that are present in this area from the perspective of Slovenian strategic interests. Certainly a huge error is the opening part of the debate on this resolution, as well as most of the points that are still present, reducing this resolution only to a debate on some gas terminals and their location, as the Adriatic is much more than some gas terminals. Slovenian interests in this area are much broader, different, strategic, and this is just one of the elements that touches on the issue of ecology and Slovenian sovereignty to regulate all areas of management of this space, including ecology to the greatest extent possible. From this point of view, in fact, the original text was very incomplete and flawed and certainly would not have received our support in any way. We see its only improvement in the amendment, which was adopted as an amendment by the committee on the proposal of the SDS Group of Members and responds to what is really the key strategic challenges of Slovenia in this area. When the resolution finds at the beginning the vulnerability of this area, its sensitivity, the importance of long-term and sustainable sonar masters in this area, then the paragraph which I will quote is added because the essence of the whole resolution is: "Slovenia has already legally responded to all the challenges mentioned in the previous paragraph in the exercise of its sovereignty, in 2005 when it adopted and implemented the Law on the Proclamation of the Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Zone of the Republic of Slovenia. By this law, the Republic of Slovenia has declared its environmental protection zone, where it exercises its sovereign rights regarding research and sustainable use, conservation and management of marine resources and jurisdiction in relation to scientific research and conservation and environmental protection in accordance with international law and obligations arising out of the acquis of the European Union. This decision of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore essential in terms of environmental conservation and provides a legal basis for the full realization of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia in this sensitive area." The essence of this story, ladies and gentlemen, is that a country that does not have direct territorial contact with the high seas, which is a key Slovenian strategic issue, cannot exercise its sovereign rights in this area to the fullest extent. Lately, it has begun, obviously because of political interest, because of some poorly negotiated contract, to speak as if it were purely irrelevant, a couple of square metres of sea, but what is important is that we have free movement and go there on vacation and so on. Far from it. Only a country that has direct territorial contact with the high seas can exercise its sovereign rights in the management of this area, in keeping it, in all environmental matters related to this area. However, the state, which does not have it, is fundamentally stricken in its sovereignty to deal with these issues. This is a key point to be stressed in this story. And Slovenia, fortunately, passed a law with very high consensus in 2005 which regulates this. Now, of course, it is only part of the Slovenian internal legal order. However, it is up to further procedures to deal with this border issue with Croatia whether we will be able to enforce it in the international space - this, of course, will not be possible on the basis of the signed contract now - and whether we will indeed manage this space to the full, we can also protect it to the full, we can exercise our sovereignty, or whether we will be a disadvantaged country because it is not only deprived of words, but also deprived of its sovereignty, even when it comes to opening sensitive environmental issues and managing this sensitive area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really believe that the maritime identity of Slovenia is not and must not be just an empty word that can only be referred to occasionally and exclusively in the function of foreign policy interests and needs. Slovenia is a maritime country because it is aware of the importance of its Adriatic or Mediterranean position and of the responsibilities it shares in the management of the Adriatic Ecoregion with neighbouring Adriatic countries. We therefore welcome the resolution calling for and moving towards more active action towards the establishment of a regional or sub-regional maritime policy following the example of other European countries and regions, such as the Baltic States, in order to ensure that all existing initiatives on the protection and sustainable development of the Adriatic are implemented through a common coastal strategy. The call for a conference on the Adriatic Strategy is one of the key requirements of this resolution. For us, the fate of the North Adriatic is of vital importance in particular, which is the most exposed part of the common sea and is a sub-region that we also belong to as a maritime state. The fact that Slovenia has the shortest coast - 46 kilometers - of the North Adriatic is not and must not be a reason for doubting our maritime identity or for loyalty to fate, which is usually written by countries with significantly larger coasts. On the contrary, our special position and our, comparablely limited area, dictates greater sensitivity to the quality of this sea. The Slovenian Istrian coast is the southern coast of the major Straza Bay from Koperska to Piranska Bay. That is why our concern is more than justifiable and the legitimacy of our demands and expectations is justified. The Mediterranean orientation of Slovenia has been particularly stressed in recent years, after all, our coast is hosting the first Euro-Mediterranean university, making it recognizable throughout the Mediterranean region. Slovenia, however, is active in all Mediterranean and Adriatic initiatives, which the resolution also mentions. Unfortunately, all these initiatives and conventions have not yet given birth to a genuine common strategy that would offer different cooperation and different synergies between the countries of the North Adriatic. This weakness, unfortunately, fosters a state-of-the-art development where the private interests of the holders of individual profitable projects prevail. The most pressing problem is the pressure of private companies and, as a result, of governments where customerism prevails and lobbyists are preventable to install security and environment-disputed fuses in the least suitable locations in the Gulf of Markets. The urgency of multinationals, who want to place gas terminals both at or in cities, including in Cyprus, and who are exploiting the European Union's weak security standards and are willing to enforce existing directives, such as the SEVESO Directive, cannot be an acceptable practice for us. We are aware that care for the northern Adriatic must be shared and that the mere competition of multinationals for the establishment of the most profitable gas terminals in the immediate vicinity of the densely populated coasts is not a guarantee for the sustainable development of the common sea. Initially, the unamended and harmonised text of the resolution was, in its 7th and 8th articles, more clearly and unequivocally in relation to this pressing issue. The parent committee then came up with changes that can be viewed as compromises and which, however, maintain a clear commitment under the coalition agreement, to provide gas terminals with locations outside closed bays and far from the inhabited coasts, but which do not limit the doubt that it wants to partially meet the expectations of interested companies, even at the cost of easing the clarity of the resolution and the position of this National Assembly. We believe that this manoeuvre has failed and that the resolution is good. Indeed, the Group will support the resolution and notes that the amendment tabled to chapter 8 brings its text back to its original clarity, which will be useful for our decision or vote today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. First, let me say that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party understand the proposed resolution as a well-intentioned and, above all, welcome. This is a text that would be adopted to guide the Government and guide the process of adopting a common European strategy for the northern Adriatic. This strategy, however, should lay down environmental guidelines to make it clear later which economic, social activities could develop in this North Adriatic area. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, they would absolutely support the resolution, as it was written in its original form. In our view, it was clear, principled and consistent. Among other things, it was stated in chapter 7 that in the northern Adriatic area, "a regionally coordinated approach is needed in the northern Adriatic area in the installation of new economic facilities and other interventions in the area which have a relevant impact on the ecosystem balance of this area and that the National Assembly for environmental, safety, transport and social reasons opposes the installation of liquefied natural gas terminals along Slovenian territorial waters and in the wider Market Gulf. The same respect for these criteria is expected from the other countries of the Adriatic basin, and the Government therefore insists that this position be clearly advocated in the formulation of the Adriatic strategy." [[End of quote.]] In our view, this chapter was of crucial importance, as we have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian People's Party that economic interests should not have an advantage over human health and the environment. That is why we are also absolutely against the gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, because we are convinced that this project would certainly have extremely harmful consequences, not only for the ecosystem in the Gulf of Markets, but also for the lives, quality of life and health of people, and not least for tourism and the economic situation in general. New and new evidence is emerging as to how dangerous the whole project is for this very sensitive environment. In one place in the immediate vicinity of the Slovenian border, according to media reports, there were also storage of flammable materials, gas central, terminal of the international pipeline, tankers, tanks, incinerators and so on, which is unacceptable to us. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore believe that Slovenia must not give up on the Italian pressures and the various lobbying that want to achieve their own, regardless of the environmental and local consequences. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, has different legal options to prevent procedures in the context of the construction of the gas terminal, and we are appalled at the fact that, at the time when we should look for these options and measures, there are already such and other lobbyists who have turned this resolution upside down after the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. What happened on the Committee on the Environment is, in my opinion, extremely unacceptable and incomprehensible. The text of the resolution has changed so that only under certain conditions can terminals be built. I will not let myself go into what lobby or interests have achieved this. All I can say is that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have tabled an amendment which brings the text of the resolution back to its original electoral form, which has been written by the proponents. Of course, we will not support this resolution unless this amendment of ours is adopted, because we will by no means adopt acts allowing what we strongly oppose and against which all other Members and Members should also oppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! We support the proposal for a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy in the Parliamentary Group, as it is our assessment that it brings good starting points for the creation of Slovenian positions in the development of a strategy for the Adriatic, where all the countries of the Adriatic basin should draw common guidelines for the development and protection of the environment. The resolution regulates the environmental standards for Slovenia, which our country can therefore expect from other countries, partners in the Adriatic. The Adriatic Sea is a relatively shallow sea within the also closed Mediterranean Sea and is therefore very sensitive to any change. The whole area is becoming increasingly burdened by strategic positions, with transport, tourism, fishing, industry, in short, with activities that people are interfering with and usually destroy the environment. Of course, for the sake of preserving what is left in the Adriatic, human activity must be monitored and only allowed to respect the opportunities offered by the environment, of course, in the public functioning of all countries bordering the Adriatic Sea. We already know a similar common strategy in the case of the Baltic Sea, and the Adriatic Strategy is therefore no novelty. In the framework of this strategy, a sub-regional approach, where certain countries agree on a common performance, is introduced, of course, a common strategy, mainly from an environmental perspective, which is a prerequisite for all other aspects of the operation of the police area. With this resolution, the National Assembly is actively involved in this process by setting some guidelines for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take part in the formulation of this strategy. At the same time, it offers us an assessment of the current situation and a clear need to develop a Mediterranean sustainable development strategy and consequently a strategy for the Adriatic. The resolution, according to our assessment, sets environmental goals that would be formulated by strategies, making it a pillar for the European Union maritime strategy for the Adriatic. The motion for a resolution proposes that the Government launch a diplomatic initiative to define the North Adriatic as a protected area. The last chapter, however, touches on the current topic of gas terminals and lays down some of the conditions that the National Assembly expects and proposes to the Government that it exposes the establishment of such facilities anywhere in the northern Adriatic, and more precisely in our area. The resolution can have a binding legal effect on the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia and neighbouring countries can only be regarded as a political message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u220	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out primarily that, although the legal nature of the resolution is non-binding, it would certainly constitute a political commitment of the ruling coalition and the final establishment of a single policy to protect the Adriatic Sea. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we join the proposal which requires the Government to announce the area of the northern Adriatic to protect the area. This decomposition would prevent contentious construction, which would be a huge and irreparable damage to the environment. That is why it makes sense for the National Assembly as a whole to adopt a common position that it clearly opposes the installation of liquefied natural gas terminals, both along Slovenian territorial waters and in the wider market Gulf. The same respect for these criteria is expected from other countries of the Adriatic basin. Terminal construction is clearly a serious environmental problem that requires cooperation and dialogue between the Slovenian, Croatian and Italian governments, with environmental legislation being urgently established. This is a potential problem because Italy's behaviour in the past is already a violation of the Espoo Convention, which binds all EU Member States. This provides that countries should regularly inform the public concerned about their intended environmental interventions and allow them to participate in environmental impact assessment procedures. In the case of a gas terminal project in the Gulf of Markets, Italy acted on its own initiative. We therefore urge the Government to clearly condemn and impose appropriate sanctions on the relevant institutions of the European Union in the formulation of the Adriatic strategy in the future. We believe in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group that a rapid reaction is necessary for harmful environmental interventions, otherwise the damage may be irreparable. The strategy should be a new, active approach to effective management of common coastal and coastal and marine wealth, which requires the widest possible support of all participants and in particular the general public. It is also supported by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the motion for a resolution has been tabled, we are moving to the debate on chapter 8 and the amendment to chapter 8 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav? Then I'll give you time to report. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thus, the amendment actually restores the resolution to the original text, to the original text. The representative of our parliamentary group, when he delivered his opinion, stressed that we would support him, and I, of course, personally, think that I would support the resolution on the strategy for the Adriatic, in the event that this extremely important amendment is adopted, not because we would write it, but because we are returning the text to the original text. I listened attentively to the Secretary of State when he approved the Government's opinion on this resolution, but I did not see from its submission, or support the resolution that was submitted, or support the resolution put by the relevant committee, the parent committee, in the debate and adoption of the National Assembly, given what he thought about one and the other variant or the return of the resolution to the original text. Above all, this would be of interest to me, because we believe that it will be very easy to adopt a resolution if this amendment, which actually prohibits such an investment, such activities in this small one are already certain to be extremely burdened by the sea; not only in our own, even in the sea near our sea or in neighbouring countries. That's how we have the question here in the first place. I was first appointed by the computer to debate, so I did not expect the Secretary of State to make a statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I must be honest with you that I am somewhat in doubt about this amendment, not because of the content, because we all agree that some colossus do not belong in a sensitive bay, even at least on our border, and that this is something that belongs in a place where conditions are given, that - according to your own words - no one is disturbed because, therefore, ecologically, socially and under all other criteria, the matter is acceptable. We probably all agree here, and that's probably why there's no doubt. The problem with this amendment is that it diverts attention again, it diverts attention to terminals, it is not a resolution on terminals, people of God, and it must not become a resolution on terminals, but it is being driven all the time, it is being stressed all the time. If this is a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy, as it says, then it should primarily highlight our strategic definition, our way, our desire, our determination to exercise our strategic interests on the Adriatic. That's the point. The only way this resolution has improved has been to adopt an amendment, to adopt an amendment from which the current debate, and also this amendment, unfortunately, is again directing attention to others that the key story related to our strategy for the Adriatic is that we must, in all possible legal and democratic ways, have our territorial contact with the open sea, which is the only way to implement the declared ecological zones internationally. That country, which does not have one, cannot do so at all and therefore cannot exercise its full sovereignty in protecting this space, nor in managing this space. That's the essence of the whole story! I'd just like to warn you here that I won't be too long to deal with one problem. Here's a more procedural comment. Mr President, there is a mistake in the report that this error will not continue until the final text. In fact, the revised text of the resolution on the Adriatic is in this amendment, which we tabled - here I have the original - and when it was copied into the text of the resolution there was a mistake in the fifth line, where the report states that Slovenia has declared its environmental protection "appraised", which is of course nonsense. It is correctly stated in our proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which was unanimously agreed to be a protected ecological "zone". So, I ask you very nicely to correct this word in the paper, because it substantially changes the importance of the unanimous amendment. But there's a lot of misunderstandings about it, but it's just interesting. The adoption of this amendment, which in fact merely sums up Article 3 of this Act, which was practically unanimously adopted in 2005 on the proposal of the then government in the National Assembly and is a very valuable element in relation to the exercise of Slovenian interests, is of great interest that the representative of the Government was at the meeting of the committee objecting to what we are writing, and it was more than obvious that he has no idea what it says in the applicable legislation governing this area, in the most valuable way since it regulates the possibility of declaring ecological zones. This can only be done by that country which has territorial access to the open sea, which is why our determination to do so is directly based on this law, and only that country can exercise its full sovereignty.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. First of all, I must apologize to all my colleagues for delaying the presentation of the Committee's report. But we all got the report, so I hope you'll accept my apology. It happens, I was in my office, and I didn't hear the call that I was supposed to come here. In my own name, I will express my view of this amendment. I must say that this resolution on the strategy for the Adriatic, if adopted, will have the wrong title. This should then be a resolution on the strategy not for the Adriatic nor the North Adriatic, but for the Gulf of Markets. And maybe there should be a resolution on the Gulf of Markets and on the gas terminals. I think it is a shame that such a good document, which was produced with the assistance of many parties, is not only by the Legislative and Legal Service, which has given very important emphasis, because the resolution would have the right sense to be a resolution, but not by a declaration from the National Assembly which does not have the broad objectives and general objectives that the resolution should have. In addition, by adopting this amendment, we would have achieved that we would simply disable any other negotiations with our partners throughout the Adriatic, because this is not just the North Adriatic, it is not just the Gulf of Markets, it is not just the plans of Italy at its terminals, one that is actually also a traffic threat, which we have received the opinion of the professional institutions. This is about not being able to prepare for negotiations on anything if the negotiating partner or partners are immediately at the beginning directly in front of the nose, if possible by punching him in the nose, by running blood from him and then not having any will to talk to us about anything else. I think that the National Assembly cannot, on the basis of, in particular, the very emotional and very biased views of some groups, make decisions that do not have any real ones, or I will say not the right ones because it is not the right term, but no professional support, because then it is necessary to fully review the situation in the Gulf of Markets and it should be determined in its entirety how many dangerous substances are imported with supertankers - not ordinary ones, with supertankers - into the market port. What are the nature of the liquids that supertankers transport to the market port, how they transport to warehouses that are in the Valley of Trieste, how they transport, is transported under houses through a pipeline of gasoline that is clearly explosively more dangerous than liquefied natural gas. I would not discuss this now, I just want to say that when our country negotiates with Italy and Croatia on the narrower market and the northern Adriatic Gulf, the northern part of the Adriatic will have to make certain demands. Among other things, one of the important requirements is that Italy will have to limit and reduce the transport of dangerous substances through the port of marketing, as we will probably have to do sooner or later because Koper is one of the areas that are very vulnerable to PMP, PM10 and PM2.5 dust particles that we know where they come from. It is true that they also come from traffic, but very many come from one source that we do not want to talk about, because it already exists, because it has income because it has jobs behind it and so on - in our territory, in our territory. At a time when we are also causing danger from our territory or from neighbouring territory, from neighbouring countries there is a very extensive transport of dangerous substances, which then travel on the Italian side but travel to other destinations and warehouses are in the immediate vicinity of our territory, we have experienced, some among you were too young, and I remember the fire that was caused by the terrorist attack in the Valley and - what then? It's okay, because it's already there and it can't be limited! That's not true! We can also discuss in negotiating venues that if someone wants to do something, they need to maintain or even reduce environmental threats under umbrella. Speaking of plans for the development of the area now under discussion, I would like to point out that no one is ever official, and I hope that also informally, I have proposed that any incinerator be built in this area. The one who said that, please tell me what kind of incinerator there is to talk about. I think that there is a whole series of moments that can make us so, I will say, with the kind of dictatorship that we have accepted in the compromise and I think that compromise is usually a matter where no one is fully satisfied with what has been written or agreed upon. Never, not on either side; for if one side is more satisfied than the other, or if one is satisfied and the other does not, then it is not a compromise. Then it's blackmail and coercion. I think we have agreed nicely that the amendment that was adopted by the Committee to chapter 8 was adopted by the voices of those who are now planning and promising to vote for the amendment that returns the original text, and I think that at least what is, at least, you could say that it is very questionable to vote with a fig in our pocket when we discuss with someone else how we are going to get things back into phase one. I can tell you very directly that it leads me to such thinking, that this amendment must be rejected, that a resolution must be kept in order to really preserve its, to say, integrity, to adopt what was adopted by the Committee on the Environment and Space, so that I am certainly not led by any capital gains, lobbying large capitalists. Because if that leads to anyone, then I ask you nicely - and if that leads to me - to prove it to those who say it and to the public, you will also prove it with concrete evidence. I think it is clear enough that I have sufficient common sense and knowledge and knowledge of this subject, that you cannot tell me that I am thinking under the influence of someone, that I am not thinking in the general and public interest, in particular in the interests of our country, but not in the interests of this government, but of any government that will come or have problems negotiating around this famous or famous gas terminals. When we talk about technologies, we need to know technology, we need to know what it is and then we need to make decisions about it. I must say that if we make a political decision, it is very questionable whether this decision will be really useful. I think at least, which is very unusual, I'd rather use a little shivering word, but I won't have someone tell me that I'm offensive - that the least is, it's unusual that the professions are supposed to believe, but when the profession says something that's not in line with our thoughts and our ideas, then the profession is bought, bribed, abused and I don't know what else. I think that this same profession, which is now being criticised in some media outlets, is very similar to the view - when we are talking about transport. That's what this profession has discussed before. Even in this hall, I have already pointed out that this profession has said that the traffic-threatening gas terminal is "off-shore" or away from the coast, that it is dangerous for traffic because it significantly narrows the transport routes of the ships coming on our side, I will say, to the Koper and Market Port and departs from the Koper and Market Port on the Italian side of the Adriatic Sea. This profession said at the time that the terminal was in danger, while the terminal on land said that the traffic wasn't dangerous. So now if you repeat in a slightly broader way the same statement. I don't see what the difference is, but above all we can't say that it's because of an in-depth or a different view - such as mine - this profession is now "fico worthy" and that's why I won't believe it. I am sorry, but it is also with great pleasure that I come to our lectures Knowledge of Harvest because I see that we have a high-quality profession in this country that we can trust and that we can be proud of - even at the Faculty of the Sea in Portorož.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Here we have some conceptual problems with understanding and meaning of the resolution. My predecessor, when he spoke about declaring the economic zone and about the fact that the resolution should not be a resolution on the terminal, was partly right. The resolution is essential to a broader scope than that of the terminal. However, it missed one significant difference between the legal act correctly incorporated into the resolution and the resolution itself. The legal act on the proclamation of the economic zone is a unilateral act that is supposed to have, and I hope that even when we see it in the course of the arbitration agreement - although it should not be in force since 1991 - I hope it will have a good effect, but it is significantly different from the resolution, because the resolution highlights the need for cooperation and the joint co-casting of something called the Adriatic Strategy. So it is not a matter of putting Slovenian interests through the strategy for the Adriatic, it is a matter of creating common interests, especially from an environmental point of view in the strategy itself. As far as the question of the amendment is concerned, as we are discussing this amendment, I would like to put it this way in general. The resolution, even as it was designed by the Committee on the Environment and Space, clearly lays down two conditions under which we can be at peace in Slovenia that the terminal cannot be. In fact, it says that the terminal must be within a reasonable distance from the densely populated coast and not in the closed bays, because the Stražaška closed bay and because, for example, the entire Slovenian coast and the Tržaška coast are densely populated, these are two conditions that prevent terminals from being installed. On the other hand, it is true that the amendment itself makes things much clearer. So from the point of view of impact, I do not see any significant changes, but since this is a resolution, it must be acknowledged that a different dictatorship raises the issue of terminals in a different light. But this is where you have to admit it. However, since we have some confusion on the issue of terminals, I would like to explain these uncertainties. In the case of natural gas and terminals we have heard many allegations, in this case a potential investor for a terminal in Slovenia, this is TGE Gas Engineering, that terminals are safe, that the number of accidents is negligible, that in the case of gas discharge there is no possibility of fire, that in the case of gas discharge there is no possibility of explosion and that technology is significantly better than that offered by Gas Natural in the case of Žavelj. Well, here's the thing. Technology is actually better than Gas Natural in Zavaja, because it does not take into account heating with seawater, heating gas with seawater, but uses a gas steam power plant to do so, and therefore there is little lifting of sediment, which is dangerous in the northern Adriatic due to the arrival of mercury across the Soča River. In any event, however, the case does not change with regard to terminal security and transport safety. There are no essential differences here. The picture you see on the panels is a picture in Boston, U.S.A., where the terminal is located in a densely populated area. In the front we see a five-story building, and in the background we see a tanker carrying liquefied natural gas. Then we'll see later what the risks it poses, but so much so that we can see what proportions, how huge ships are these and what effect they have in densely populated areas. Well, in armor, this tanker carrying 200, 300,000 cubic metres of liquefied natural gas will no longer be arriving in Boston for a long time, because even in the United States they have decided that the terminal currently in the practically urban zone of Boston will be moved to the sea - precisely because of security aspects. If we move forward, this is an assessment of the acceptability of the impact of the marine gas terminal. This is also the assessment of my predecessor, including the Piran Maritime Faculty, which found that the construction of a terminal - not in terms of traffic - is unacceptable in terms of the risk of spillage of liquefied natural gas in our area. And it estimates that in the event of a spill of 200,000 cubic metres of liquefied natural gas, we have seen that the tanker is carrying between 200 000 and 300 000, to the spill, where the lower ignition of the border - that is, this cloud of very cold gas, which is going to be rocking the sea, can be as long as 11 kilometers long and still guest enough to be able to light it up. It can also be lit by a match or a spark when we turn on, for example, the light in the room. However, since this study became questionable, one year later the same group of researchers published a second study, where it found that the terminal was essentially completely safe. The difference is that this time the payer of the study is an investor for the TGE GAS Engineering terminal. However, I do not want to ask a professional question, so I am distancing myself from this study, which I have just presented, because if I say that the non-creditable study presented a few months ago is so uncreditable then also this one - so much must be consistent or if the credibility one is credible then the other is also, but they are in contradiction! That is why I would prefer to refer to another study in 2004, called the "Sandia Report" of the American company Sandia National Laboratories, where we come to very interesting conclusions. This report is indisputably independent and identifies two important issues. First of all, an investor for a terminal in Cyprus claims that it is not possible to spill because the speeds near the port are very low, and therefore, even in the event of a collision, there can be no spill. Well, in this graph, we can see what kind of break of the ship's very shell, and so the spill can occur at what speed. The first blue line indicates the breaking of the outer shackles, the second one, the pink one, the inner shackles. And we can see that at the rate of 5 knots, there can also be a break in the inner shackles and spills. 5 knots, however, is the speed achieved by the average tourist boat at an unsolicited wind. Five knots is nine kilometers an hour. This speed is significantly greater than that of ships moving in the Gulf of Markets. And that's why there's actually a danger. If we move forward, the same study, if the study that I mentioned earlier referred to 11 kilometers of possible lower ignition limits, this study indicates perhaps more real numbers where "the distance to lower flamebility limit" can occur, that is to say, to the lower ignition limit of 4506 meters. Which means 4,506 meters in radius, and now we'll see. So, let's go to the map. These are pictures from the film, unfortunately technology doesn't allow us here to see the film, the test they did when the liquefied natural gas was released, so that you can also see graphically what that means and what this cloud means, which then moves and can start. Well, they dropped 35,000 liters here, so not cubic meters, but liters of liquefied natural gas, that's about 500 times less than the tanker's. Well, and so, you see, this cloud of very cold gas spreads across the sea and reaches 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 kilometers away very quickly. Well, here's a map, and here we can see a terminal like a 1.5km radius covering practically the entire port of Koper and touching the city core itself. But if we go not to 4,500, but to 3 kilometers, which is essential under what is mentioned by the Sandia Report as the possibility of a cloud length that could be set on fire, we see that we not only cover the entire Cyprus city centre, but cover Ankaran, Justerna, Markovec and Semedela, a total of 24 000 people who will be put at death risk every day - for profit and for someone else's business. Even graphically, what the terminal will look like, even the visual impact is catastrophic, and the distance between the coast of Cyprus and this tanker is 1.5 kilometers. But because there was a claim that the number of accidents was negligible. This is October 20, 1944, Cleveland, Ohio, when the liquefied natural gas warehouse exploded - we can move on with the photographs - it destroyed practically one of the city quarters in Cleveland and there were 130 dead. It could have been said that this happened 60 years ago; and five years ago it happened in eastern Algeria, 19 January 2004. The terminal was on fire, some of the gas silos even exploded, and what was at the end of the balance sheet of this accident - 27 dead. If we make a brief summary. Here we see how it burns and, therefore, how flammable the liquefied natural gas is, that was on 3 June last year on the island of Varan in western Australia. And if we get to a summary of some natural gas accidents: October 20, 1944: already said, Cleveland Ohio - 130 dead; February 1973: Staten Island New York USA - 37 dead; September 25, 1998 Longford Victoria Australia - 2 dead, November 13, 2002: a collision between a submarine and a tanker in Gibraltar - why Gibraltar is important because it is a denser area, like Luka Koper. Fortunately, that tanker was empty, and there was no spilling and catastrophic consequences. December 23, 2003: Chongqing, People's Republic of China - 234 dead in terminal, January 19, 2004: Algeria, we already said - 27 dead. But what's even more worrying is that you're going to say good, but this is in European territory, where the standard of safety is so high, it can't happen; July 31, 2004: Belgium - 11 dead. And lastly, very important, July 13, 2006: Amman, Jordan - 12 wounded. Why is it very important - because this accident happened when they filled and emptied the tanker for liquefied natural gas. So this is exactly the process that's going to take place in Luka Koper. To conclude, the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper unanimously adopted a decision opposing the gas terminals and also in one of the surveys published in September 2009, 85% of the people object to the claim that the gas terminal is good because it will bring new jobs. In Cyprus, the public has virtually agreed against such terminals. I hope that this presentation has clarified a few questions about whether the matter is dangerous, how dangerous it is. You know, there is also an argument in the debates, because at the end of the journey on the plane is dangerous, or the journey by car is dangerous. She's certainly, and she's much more dangerous than this one. But there is a big difference. When we decide to fly a plane or get in a car and go on a trip, we decide for ourselves and realize the consequences. In this case, some others would like to make a decision instead of the Korrčans. And what's most sad is that others will be gratifyingly serving, because this investment is not a strategic investment, but a good deal for some, but the Kopreans will be at risk. He's talking about the six, he's talking about the nuclear. There is no decision by the municipal councils or the public in that area that would clearly oppose these projects. I can even say with certainty, in the case of TES, there is great support for this project, support for the public and local policy. It's not like that in Cyprus. In Cyprus, the matter is very different. That is why I call on you, no matter how you decide to make an amendment, which, as I say, I take it for granted, although it does not change the content of the matter. Nevertheless, I ask you not to forget this information, which has now been presented here. And if anyone else wants to further discuss gas terminals, you have these numbers in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, about the amendment. I will support this amendment myself, although I think that the resolution is also a good one with the text that we have before us and ensures what the amendment requires in a clearer and more decisive way. The dictatorship we now have in the resolution is practically a quote from the coalition treaty, where we have already tried to define as clearly as possible the search for suitable locations for such facilities, for gas terminals, outside closed bays and far from the densely populated coasts. And this lesson is now included and it has, in my opinion, provided a good deal, but it is never so good that it could not have been better. And the amendment proposed by the SLS Group brings the text back to the original text, which was harmonised until the moment we started negotiating for compromise. This word has been used several times today, and colleague Pecanov also stated that this compromise was acceptable, but is still not as clear and decisive as the amendment that we are going to vote on. And why is this chapter of the resolution so important? I also agree with a colleague who claims that this resolution on the Adriatic must be and that the emphasis on the Gulf of Markets may be exaggerated and that the emphasis on gas terminals may be exaggerated. Nothing's too much! Look, we only have one coast. Our coast is no further than the northern Adriatic. And not just that. This coast of ours is no further than the Gulf of Markets. We are Slovenia, the Mediterranean Slovenia and the Slovenian coast is the southern part of the Straza Bay. It is no wonder, therefore, that within this resolution, which contains quite a few chapters, we have a chapter with a clear emphasis on our expectations regarding gas terminals. Of course, as colleague Pecanova said and I agree with her, there are a number of other issues that will need to be addressed in a coherent, dialogue with neighbouring countries within this strategy. But the difference between terminals and other problems is that these problems exist, they are fact and they need to be remedied. But gas terminals are a thing that comes and that doesn't have to be repaired, but we can stop it. That is why it makes sense for us to put forward in a very clear way our attitude towards gas terminals, which is not a priori opposed to gas terminals. Gas terminals are good technology; they are an interesting way of transporting natural gas, which allows countries to be more flexible, more flexible in terms of the market supply of natural gas; we are all aware of that. But the purpose of this resolution is to urge all the countries of the North Adriatic to finally consider a common strategy. And part of the common strategy is what has long emerged as an alternative to gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets - this is a joint cooperation in the planning of gas terminals or gas terminals at an appropriate location. It's more difficult - why? - because it goes beyond the capital interests of private companies. Private companies have no such interest, they want to get there as soon as possible and are as cheap as possible to the inhabited coasts, to the already prepared infrastructure, in short, to the conditions where the transport and sale of natural gas will be profitable. However, if we speak strategically and we want to provide all three countries sharing the North Adriatic with the possibility of producing natural gas through gas terminals, then these three countries should take strategic action and also consider joint interventions where the public sector is working with the private sector and providing sustainable supply to this energy sector. I think this amendment is an additional incentive from this point of view. I don't think we're blackmailing anyone. This is not blackmail, but it is an example, for this article or chapter clearly states that Slovenia renounces terminals in its own territorial waters and similarly expects other countries that have a coastline in the Gulf of Markets. And this is, of course, Italy. Recently, there was a lot of talk about professional grounds. Look, since 2006, we've been dealing with this issue and the previous government, and I want to publicly acknowledge here that the previous government has been through this breakthrough and has not gone into dogmatic positions, but has listened to the demands of local communities, has listened to civil society, has set up an expert inter-disciplinary group, which has prepared several reports in an expert and scientific way. So we have a basis. Not only that! We received last October 2008 a report already cited by Luke, where our experts used a variety of different models, tests. So it's not a matter of political or emotional judgment, as someone mentioned, but it's actually data coming from expert evaluations. Not only that! If we leave these estimates of ours that can be unilateral, because we may have wanted to prove that the Italian gas terminals are dangerous to us. Suddenly, when the gas terminal project is being developed in the very town of Koper, suddenly there are no more problems! And the company that is an investor orders an analysis - and look at it, a fraction, this analysis suddenly finds that there is no danger anymore. And that we believe such analysis! The next day, the Trieste held a joint professional omism with the participation of Slovenian and Italian experts and demonstrated in a three-hour debate that these findings, positive, placating findings, unfortunately, do not hold. This omizima was organised by a trade union of Italian firefighters, which cooperates with fire and gas, gas and other flammable elements. And on that ommis, it was made clear that there was a threat and there was another threat. And it is even bigger because neither Italy, and unfortunately for us, is willing to take some into account the basic directive, which prevents the danger of domino effect, the SEVESO Directive. Why is that terminal so much more dangerous in Zavaja? Because they're going to put it next to other objects that are extremely dangerous! And why would Koper be even more dangerous? Because the transshipment would take place at the second pier, where we already have kerosene tanks, while on the seventh we have oil, we have gasoline, we have other chemicals, and there would also be a terminal with unpredictable consequences in the event of an accident, in the event of a terrorist attack, in the event of a human error, etc. In short, this resolution is also of a preventive nature, and we believe that it is this consistent attitude from Chapter 7 and Chapter 8 that we inform our neighbours that we do not intend to let go of blackmailing certain lobbyists who are strong because in the last two or three years they have managed to convince a lot of people and have managed to turn the board also to some experts who have swallowed up their own research to sign the second study - but let us leave. I agree that this will primarily devalue the research of that time. And that's what we can worry about, how fast these grades change and the public is confused. And as long as we're confused, why would we sign the Bianca menu? Say "dulcis and foundation", the resolution is good and the amendment will be even better. Of course, I will support this amendment, and if the amendment is not adopted, I will vote in favour of the resolution, because the resolution is still good and also provides something that may need to be fought more significantly than if we had such a clearer dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! My assessment is that what is happening with this motion for a resolution on the strategy for the Adriatic is a true farce, and I really do not know who is holding figs in his pocket here. We have adopted this resolution with enthusiasm in the Slovenian People's Party and we thank the drafters of this resolution, but we were very embarrassed by the developments on the Committee on the Environment. The resolution should therefore also be clearly defined on the issue of gas terminals in terms of opposition, and here I absolutely agree with my colleague Grims that this resolution should be much more. Thus, in the main text of chapter 7 or of chapter 8 prepared by the proponents, I have already quoted this text as saying today: The National Assembly for environmental, safety, transport and social reasons opposes the installation of liquefied natural gas terminals in Slovenian territorial waters and in the wider Gulf of Markets, so that I will not read everything. This resolution would also define Slovenia directly and very explicitly, clearly, on the issue of terminals. All is well and well, but something has obviously changed or something has happened during the drafting of this resolution and the consideration of the resolution by the Committee on the Environment. And I say to myself, and I will speak in the first person of the crowd that we are Members in the Kremlins of the Lobbies. I've had different materials sent to me, and I'm not going to mention the economic operators that did this, and they asked me out for lunch, and I don't know what. Even after one of the round tables which was organised in Cyprus, which I myself attended, and there may have been a little critical to the realization of such and similar projects in Cyprus and the surrounding area, the telephone rang at midnight because the next day was the Committee on the Environment. In short, the pressure is obviously horrifying. On the basis of all this, however, an amendment was proposed by the Committee on the Environment, which states, quote: "The National Assembly of the Government proposes to examine and take due account of the considerations and warnings of environmental, transport and energy sectors, safety and non-governmental organisations regarding the placement of gas terminals in the Gulf of Žaža". Trala hopsasa is called. And I'm very concerned about that myself. I am even more concerned that this amendment has been proposed by the president of the Committee on the Environment, and that the first one should be the most skeptical in any such debate on the placements of various industrial facilities, which, however we turn, come from this profession, from the oil industry, are dangerous. The question is, of course, what is the proportion of risk and so on. Of course, this can be minimized by certain technological receptions and so on and so on. But the Committee on the Environment should be the first to be more skeptical. It is also more obvious today from this debate that some colleagues from coalition parties are not most pleased with what is happening and, last but not least, an amendment has been proposed to an amendment that I would like to read as well. I quote: 'The plans for the construction of gas terminals or other demanding facilities in the northern Adriatic region must take into account the cross-border environmental impact assessments and the SEVESO Directive', probably SEVESO2, which is the last. "Such facilities should be placed in a suitable distance from densely populated shores and not in closed bays" and so on. The door isn't closed here. Here's the door locked. So, we're allowing some possibility that a terminal like this, I don't know where, I don't know who, but set it up. Now I am asking myself and all of us here gathered together what we really want and what we are actually going to do with this resolution. If we want to clearly say "no" to the terminals in the Gulf of Markets, then let us adopt this resolution in the basic text, as proposed by the proponents, and accept the amendment that brings the text back to its original form. If we don't want to do this or speculate, maybe we'll let any of the construction of such a terminal in the Gulf of Markets happen, and we'll tear this resolution apart because we don't need it because we're making a fool of ourselves. I suggest we stop playing these pianist games, literally -- I apologize if I'm a little bit sharper or direct, because it pisses me off. I wonder who "we think we're crazy" is. Not to me personally. But we have a lot of crazy people, especially residents and residents who live in Primor or live in Cyprus and the surrounding area. Those "we definitely have for a madman." I wonder who's got a fig in his pocket here today. What big words we have not recently heard in the case of the declaration of Slovenia's active role in shaping a new global climate change policy. Oh and ah and all! Everything's fine and fine. I agree and I sign everything. What about today? Today, we are open to the possibility that, despite the public opinion polls presented by our colleague Juri in Cyprus and the surrounding area, when people are against, almost mostly or entirely against, we are leaving the possibility that someone will in no way build a gas terminal in this Gulf of Markets, perhaps even two. On the contrary, if we are not clear and explicit today, and we will again be as snitching as the Slovenians always know, the Italians will build a terminal in front of us, which will result in the possibility that we will probably have one in the Gulf of Markets. Let's be serious this time and say, "No, we don't want that!" And with this clear not and decisive Slovenian government, let us go against the Italian government. If we accept some texts here today, which will compromise in one way or another - how will you act against the international public, how will you act against the Italian government, how will you defend Slovenia's interests? You can't! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you. I see a desire to discuss it. I'm opening time for an application. Here you go. Mr. Kus, did you want to discuss it? Yeah. Now? The word has magic. Mr Zoran Kus, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. The Government considers that the text of Chapter 8 of the resolution on the Adriatic Strategy is adequately and sufficiently addressed and stresses respect for international conventions and protocols and all European regulations, relevant regulations, regulations and procedures in the field of environmental protection, transport safety and so on, relating to gas terminals. This text of Chapter 8 means that Italy can truly be expected for a joint negotiating table when we, together with other Adriatic countries, are preparing a maritime strategy for the Adriatic. In the event of the adoption of the amendment, the Government expresses its concern that Italy will not be able to obtain a joint negotiating table for the preparation of the Adriatic strategy, that Italy will not wish to sit down for this joint negotiating table, because the amendment would narrow down the content that the Adriatic Strategy should define and that Italy would certainly like to discuss, regardless of the final outcome, irrespective of the final agreement, irrespective of the final text of the Adriatic Strategy, where our views are known and clear. But in this case, at least we're going to delete this chapter together, and we're going to have all the other chapters. If Italy is not at the negotiating table, we will have no chapter of the Adriatic Strategy. That's our concern. Therefore, in the event of the adoption of the amendment, there is concern that Italy will be politically and professionally willing to jointly draw up a sub-regional strategy for the Adriatic in time to move to a later date, which may be too late for certain specific projects. In fact, the Marine Strategy Directive lays down the preparation of regional maritime strategies and explicitly does not provide for the preparation of sub-regional strategies that are optional and, above all, do not specify the time in which these sub-regional strategies are to be prepared. This time is slightly later in the directive. And if we advocate the idea that we have a common maritime strategy for the Adriatic already in 2010 and 2011, then the original text without an amendment offers more opportunities to prepare this strategy in time. Let me finish. With regard to gas terminals, the government’s positions are known, clear and specific and the Government is following them in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It made me so happy to hear the government's representative say what he said. For in other words, most simply, he said that our Government is incapable of negotiating anything unless we give the Italians any advantage at first. This is shameful on the part of our government, which I still thought was the Slovenian government, but now it shows that it is under the protectorate of Rome and that we will do what the Italians want us to do, not to protect our own interests. I think it's imperative to accept this amendment. The resolution is a good one, and with this amendment we will put in place certain positions from which we will not deviate. It is sad that the Government is already preparing some reliefs immediately, that the Italians will come along and sit as if they were all-saved and that without Italy in fact there is nothing. The Mediterranean is a slightly wider region and there are more Mediterranean countries. Even along the Adriatic coast there are several countries, and I think that if these countries that are on the Adriatic coast have a conference, Italy will definitely be involved. The fact is that Slovenia is also a member of the European Union as well as Italy and has certain rights, unless it takes them on its own. And as I can see, the government is ready to give in at the very beginning. I am increasingly convinced that this is about some private interests and desires, however, to allow those who would be willing to give something to someone, some'shanks' to put something in their pocket to allow those who would also be able to build terminals, if necessary, and if any gentleman from the current coalition seemed to be doing well. I think Mr Yuri Luka has said well about the danger of such terminals. It is necessary to know that attempts have been made in war circles for a long time with so-called aerosol bombs. The terminal, as it is, actually works like an aerosol bomb when the liquefied gas is released. This aerosol bomb would have destroyed about 25 kilometers. Of course, houses would remain more or less, except for broken windows, but the population would be destroyed. But if it pays for it, let's do it, some of the government think. I think it is sad, too, that our Environment Commissioner, Mr Potočnik, has not been here today when we are talking about this matter. He's probably sitting in Brussels, and a scratch is readin' what I know, what comic books, Alan Ford maybe or something. For I have not yet observed that Mr Potočnik would make any statement in this regard, despite the fact that, if I am not mistaken, Slovenia, and if I am not mistaken, the representative of the Slovenian State as Commissioner - is there anything else? I don't know. That would be possible. In the amendment itself, it is beautifully written "in the wider Gulf of Markets," in chapter 8 of such text as it is, it reads "the area of the northern Adriatic". But in fact, the area of the North Adriatic is a wider market hall. As I know, for example, the Gulf of Genoa is on the other side of Italy and is only on this side of the Bay of Markets. So I don't know why it's so bad for some people when I've listened to the debate before, that that particular talk about the wider Gulf of Markets is at stake in this amendment. I think that the amendment is a good one and really sets the first Slovenian position firmly against some other negotiators. So far, we've had a bit of a mutiny, and always the government has had to bend somehow and nod to the left, to the right. It is right that our views are firm, even so they will take us into account. Otherwise, they'll send us in like cleaning boots for gentlemen and then back to the corner. This is how it is now with our gentlemen in the European Parliament after all, because I have not heard that any Slovenian MEP would take up our national affairs, I hear about Kosovo, about Serbia, about Macedonia, about Bosnia, about everything and about ours not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u237	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u238	And I think we need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u239	one request. [[..]] I believe that your debate will be equally convincing without these insults. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know where the insult was. I don't know. All I said was facts. However, the facts are given [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u241	For the facts, Mr Jelinčič, there must be evidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u242	Oh, I'd love to. Oh, I'd love to! Pay me your way to Brussels, and I'll bring you all the evidence you want. I will bring in a whole bunch of documentation, where there is not a word of any of the Slovenian MEPs, or at least this kind of thing or this particular thing. One more time. With us, we will support this amendment and it is right to be supported by all those who have both life and living environment in the wider Gulf of Markets. It is important to be aware that this is a Slovenian national ethnic area and that we must preserve it, although it is under the occupation of Italy and although the Slovenian government allows the occupation wave to spread increasingly to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The situation is quite interesting, and I have quite a few doubts about the content of the resolution, but not about the content of the amendment, it is quite clear to me, but the problem arises elsewhere where the question is whether the resolution makes any sense at all. In fact, the resolution as such was designed solely to talk about terminals. Now either "for" or "against", that's the end of the line anyway - just to talk about terminals. This is not a resolution, even less a resolution on the strategy, but also a strategy cannot be if it speaks only of whether the intention is just to mention terminals: either to oppose or to be "for" - because it does not matter after all. This would be a poor journey, but it suggests a certain controversial situation in Slovenia over the last period. And if the amendment proposed by the SDS, where we also mentioned a territorial approach, was not adopted, it is said, a conservation ecological fishing zone, which was in fact the content of that amendment, which was unanimously adopted, then such a resolution would not be necessary. That would be a document that should be called something else. However, I think that the resolution would also be completely meaningless if it did not prove that we have a direct territorial approach to the open sea. Then it's like looking at a pigeon on a roof and enjoying what we can do with it. He's on the roof. If we do not have a direct territorial approach to the open sea, then we are not a maritime country and we can only dream of all the rights arising from this. I am so grateful to all of you for supporting this amendment on the Committee on the Environment and Space, because the country would be deprived if we did not have it. But as far as the terminals are concerned, it's absurd, and it's getting away from me. But I look wider - not within the framework of the resolution and not even this amendment - in Copenhagen, we know, at this moment, there is a conference that has very ambitious objectives. Some called it Copenhagen. So we're hoping for something that could happen there, that our lives could be so that we can make decisions like this, that we can build the economy on environmentally friendly things, on environmentally friendly energy and so on. On the other hand, in a resolution that is supposed to have a broader scope, we are speaking exclusively against gas supply - for example, it is possible for an unsettled observer to look at the matter. Finally, the gas is a friendly energy. If we observe the situation from another point of view, the perspective of our neighbours, for example, in this case it is Italy in particular, they see it as an economic opportunity. Perhaps not so much in the Gulf of Markets, but the rest of Italy see it as an economic opportunity. And we're taking that opportunity away from them. Last but not least, there's an oil pipeline, an oil terminal that leads to Ingolstadt in Germany. And to say that we have to reach an agreement with Italy to reduce oil supply activities - yes, we will probably have to ask Germany! However, if Germany is to reduce their supply of oil, it is a question. It's a matter of talking about how good it would be, how we should be, is a pigeon on a roof. On the other hand, we say that the gas terminals do not belong to us, let the Croats on Krk have this. Yes, but the Croats will take this danger that we are fighting! And even though the Croats would accept it, we depend on their care. But what's even more interesting, thirdly, is our green initiative, if we can even call them "green", against the construction of a gas pipeline in this part of Slovenia, on the karst terrain and so on. Any pipeline that goes across Slovenia to Italy, whether it's the southern flow of Nabucco or whatever the northern flow is, it doesn't matter, it's gonna have to go through this area. So, not gas pipelines across our territory, Croats might have a terminal for us and we'll depend on them, we can't have gas here. What is more interesting, this same green initiative, which has justified, say, concerns about the construction of certain infrastructure facilities, does not say anything about the construction of a large coal building in Scotland. I am not against Slashing, that no one may say, but this is less friendly to the environment - it is quiet there; but with gas we all advertise and place Slovenia in a strange position. And that's what I'm talking about! Not so much on this amendment, not on the resolution, because the resolution at its final stage is not important, it is important what we are doing that we actually have to enter what we are adopting on paper. Let us put it on the real ground, and this is also important in this debate. Italy, if it assesses that it benefits from this, is likely to do something about it, will probably take advantage of the economic opportunity. As the latest events show, for the last year I say, the Italians will not ask us anything, just as the Croatians no longer ask us anything about the border, nor do they need to, because our government will leave immediately. In my view, first of all, the negotiations are strictly closed, and there is no negotiating which Europe does not understand and then leaves everything behind, including the import of radioactive waste, so that they can have this chapter on energy. Let's be honest, and let's say this, this is the real state, this is the current reality, whether someone likes it or not. It's not like you won't think either! I don't either, but I live here if I like it or not. What is unusual is that Slovenia is in such a position. This is unusual for us to oppose friendly energies, but we build large objects that produce a lot of CO2 emissions. That's the problem. That's what I'm trying to say. I did not define whether it is right to define ourselves against these terminals or not, but Slovenia is in a strange situation, indeed. We will have to think about this, we have a border situation like this, we are now with friendly or unfriendly energy people, using these energies. We oppose those who are environmentally friendly, and we are silent with those who are unkind. That's what you make, say, a suggestion. What is even more interesting, our delegation is expected to advocate a position in Copenhagen to further reduce CO2 emissions. Great, that's great. Only then does something not go wrong with keeping quiet when building large objects on energy, with large releases of CO2, but we oppose those who are environmentally friendly. One of these is also wind power stations. Wind power plants are blocked in Slovenia and are environmentally friendly, not producing CO2 emissions. We're against the chain, I don't know, hydro power plants - environmentally friendly, not producing CO2 emissions. But we're quiet when we're building large objects that are emitters of CO2. I'm so confused - not because of the amendment, it's all clear to me, but because of the situation that Slovenia is in, and this last year, when this government has brought us so far that we have the world around us. On the other hand, we would like to reduce CO2 emissions further, and we are doing exactly the opposite. Now there's some contradiction that I can't somehow get in the context of, and that's the doubts I'm having. With regard to the placement of terminals itself, it is clear to me that I have no problems, but it will have to be considered, whether this duality or this strange situation in which Slovenia is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u245	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thanks again for saying that. It is interesting in this amendment that the honourable SD Member, who is unfortunately now outside, and the Secretary of State - but be careful, in a completely opposite context, one "for", one "against" - spoke of the same starting point. This is said to be a question of cooperation. In particular, with what my fellow Member has said, I must say that I very much agree, because cooperation is actually the only way to implement a common strategy in this area and in this way allow for some normal co-existence, in accordance with modern standards. The problem is that the conclusions that were then upgraded are all wrong. Who, though, can participate in practice? Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately or fortunately, depending on our conduct in the future, perhaps only among equal partners. What does that mean in practice? This in practice means that it is our fundamental strategic interest, that Slovenia must have unconditional access, contact with the open sea and thus be able to declare ecological zones, that we will be equal partners and that we will therefore be able to cooperate, depending on whether we are able to implement our fundamental strategic decision. For without this, ladies and gentlemen, we will not participate in anything, because we will not be an equal partner and will agree on everything about the Adriatic Croatia and the Italians themselves, and we will have a nice chat somewhere in the Oslo bench, and eventually they will learn about what they have made, maybe they will ask us some questions, but, believe me, fight a little. That's the real policy, that's the world. If you are not an equal partner, no one usually asks you a question, but I'm sure he takes very little into account what you say. This is said to be the case, unfortunately, in this debate exactly what we have warned in the SDS at the outset, that if this is a strategy for the Adriatic, we should talk about the application of our fundamental strategic interests, but not to reduce ourselves to just one, perhaps this moment at present, but for the whole non-essential point in this issue. Only if, according to our own words, we reject the wrong arbitration agreement, which does not guarantee territorial contact with the high seas, and if we even open the door to the effective application of Slovenia's strategic interests on the Adriatic, we will be an equal partner and we will be able to cooperate equally with others in the design of the strategy, in the eventual declaration of zones, in the management of this space, in opening up the ecological and other issues associated with this sensitive space. If that is not the case, then we will not cooperate or we will have very little to do only on marginal issues. The key thing we are talking about today is a strategy for the Adriatic, but we will not be included because we will not be an equal Adriatic country, because we will be damaged, limited, damaged in our sovereignty. And that's the essence of this story, and unfortunately all of it just takes us away from it. If we want cooperation, we must be aware that cooperation can only be done on an equal footing. And an equal basis is possible only between countries having an equal status with regard to the Adriatic Sea, that is to say between countries which have undisputed internationally recognised contact, territorial contact with the open sea. This is a fact with Croatia and Italy. This is still an open question for us, unfortunately to a large extent, with the wrong negotiations in the last period and we can only hope that this agreement, the agreement imposed, will be annulled by the Constitutional Court or that we will reject it all together in the referendum and thus open up the possibility of actually reaching this partnership, cooperation and full sovereignty in the Adriatic area. This is said, including the possibility of declaring ecological, fishing and all other zones and full management, sovereign management in this area. We will need a lot of determination and knowledge to do so. And also in this, I must say again, I am very concerned, because I would remind you of what I said earlier, at the meeting of the committee it turned out that even the representative of the Government did not know that this amendment, which was then adopted as an amendment to the committee - unanimously, thank you to all those who voted for it - did not do anything other than simply summarize article 3 of the current Law on the proclamation of the ecological and fishing zone. So it is an integral part of our rule of law, which also binds the Government, including that representative of the Government, and he is obliged to implement it. He had no idea it was in the law! And then we're talking about expertise, when I'm picking up a lot of skills and ignorance, I usually come across a lot of ridicule, but here was an eclectic example -- and this is about the fundamental strategic interest of Slovenia that we're talking about today! And then we wonder if we're where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. The resolution does not only refer to gas terminals, but only chapter 8 talks about it; part of this resolution is also the SDS amendment adopted as proposed and written. There's an amendment to the SLS on the table. It does not speak of anything beyond what the resolution already contains, but is more precise, clearer, more exact. Anyone who is in principle opposed to putting gas terminals in inappropriate places should have no reason not to support this amendment proposed by the SLS. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. And if the government says that the government's views are clear and well-known, let's write them down clearly!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u249	Thank you very much. There are still wishes to discuss, I'm opening time to report. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Although I come from Prekmurje, it is said, from the very other end of Slovenia, I do not care what is happening on our Primorska. And this resolution, which is primarily linked to such potential threats, is why we also accept it to prevent such as these gas terminals, and since I have recently asked the Minister of Environment about the planned gas terminals, I would also like to say something on this subject in my own name. When we adopt a resolution on the Adriatic, past these gas terminals and this amendment to chapter 8, which I welcome and will certainly support, we cannot go. But there is one point that I have already raised in the question of parliament, but unfortunately I have had time limited to three minutes, because there was no minister, because he was obviously dealing with other matters: client, police, prosecutor, and I do not know what else, I would like to say here about the energy necessity, the energy policy, the new energy policy. That's what I wanted to point out at the oral question at the time, but there was no time. For, unfortunately, some discussions in Ljubljana, without political cooperation and in cooperation with the international non-governmental organisation Alpe Adria Green, have shown the necessity of developing such a common new energy policy among the countries sharing the Adriatic Sea, says Slovenia, Croatia and Italy, all for the purpose of resolving such an important environmental dispute as these terminals. This means that, in the use of energy resources in such a sensitive Adriatic Gulf, appropriate energy plans for joint energy use should be developed and adopted in the coming 20s, 30s and given priority to pipelines that are less polluting the environment and pose a lower risk in the event of accidents. Even the Italian police, who documented the alignment of data on sediments, water temperatures, depths of the sea and so on, found that the studies did not take into account the consequences of possible ship accidents and so on. It was once said that our Ministry of Environment and Space does not exclude the possibility of an action against the Republic of Italy in the European Court of Justice, and I am very interested in how far the Environment Ministry has come on these decisions in this regard. When we hear about it, the municipality of Kohorje also opposes planned gas terminals and has already filed an action with the Italian municipalities Mirje and Dolina before the administrative court in Trieste against the Italian Ministry of Environment and Cultural Heritage. For see, as regards the cross-border impact of the complementary marine terminal project for re-influence of natural gas in the Gulf of Markets, experts from the Marine Biological Station of Piran and the Piran National Institute of Biology have drawn up opinions demonstrating the short-term and long-term negative impacts of the construction of gas terminals on the environment. In addition, there is already a new technology that excludes terminals at sea, as well as closed systems technology that exploit air heat and therefore have a significantly less harmful impact on the environment. This is the so-called "LNG" technology with the "vaporization process", it is the effects by means of air and sea water. It is said that both the location and the technology used are disputed, and there are no environmental risks or consequences; that is, environmental degradation due to the burden of the Straza Bay with hazardous substances, namely the lifting of sediments of mercury, the cooling of water, the chlorination of water or what they do and, of course, the resulting destruction of flora and fauna; and the degradation of fisheries as an economic activity and tourism, not to mention the negative effects that there are still. Not to mention the general safety of the population around us due to the possibility of errors in such technological processes. Then the potential risk of gas ignition and, last but not least, the risk of potential terrorist attacks on gas terminals or tankers, which would again result in a large-scale militarisation of the Gulf of Markets, with adequate insurance under the prescribed risk and security standards. The traditional activity of this area is also completely endangered, namely fisheries and tourism, as I have already mentioned. What is most sad is the ignorance of the resistance of the local population in both Italy and Slovenia. The Italian Government does not provide access to documentation and information as I am aware and thereby violates the rights of the population, both its own and ours. The local policy and the population strongly oppose the placement of gas terminals in or off the Straits and also argue this with a high level of pollution of the floating Gulf, with the high burden of the Gulf of Markets, traffic I think, with the dense population of the coast, last but not least, with the deterioration of the security situation and, as I have already mentioned, also with negative impacts on the development and maintenance of traditional economic activities. What surprises me most is that, because I am monitoring the work of our Members, I think the work of our Members in the European Parliament has never been presented in the European Parliament in such a matter as is currently being prepared with these gas terminals. Last but not least, we have a European Environment Secretary. I don't know if they'll react when it's too late. I have a feeling that everything we are saying here is going to be empty; that these terminals will be because we are too small because we are too active because we are too determined because, last but not least, through our representatives in the European Parliament we are unable to prevent it. And that seems the hardest thing to do, and I think what we're trying to do to stop it, but when a person feels that it's meant to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! As my previous colleague has said before, we are Members from different parts, but it is still very important and how this is about ours, my country, what it will be or how long it will be. And we are responsible for this to all citizens and citizens. I can tell you very frankly that at the time of this resolution on the Adriatic Strategy I was relatively happy and I said, well, yes, at least something good. It is also quite clear and exact, I will say, in the language that I like to use myself - clearly, loudly, to know exactly who, where and why - to know who drinks and who pays. The resolution itself was written because this is a resolution of the National Assembly that the National Assembly opposes the installation of terminals. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'll wait. That the National Assembly opposes the installation of terminals and so on and then causes further. But when it is recorded in the resolution itself, which is adopted by the National Assembly, that "the National Assembly is waiting" - yes, who is next? Who else is behind this National Assembly to decide to be white, black, green, yellow? Who else is he? He's gone! And if you write that you expect something to be installed in the right distance. What is the appropriate distance - a mile - and - a - half mile [3 km]? What colleague Yuri showed, five kilometers, ten, I don't know? There is an exact need to write down, or just as it was in the resolution itself, and it is now enshrined in the amendment that we simply oppose it. Pika. And we're opposed to who? Yes, the construction of terminals on the Italian side and clearly and loudly say that we will not do it ourselves; so, what you do not want to do to yourself, do not do to another one, and in this case, we do not allow, in contravention of legislation, European directives and so on, neighbours - Majda, I am very happy that you are so loud - then let us also say that we will not do it ourselves. And the adoption of a resolution with the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party is only meaningful and appropriate, since otherwise it is a complete nonsense, or without connection, of a resolution as such. See, we have also adopted a resolution on Croatia in the National Assembly and we have made clear what we are asking to withdraw from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and so on, but this has not been taken into account later and since it was not taken into account in the arbitration agreement, we are today where we are. And for what it's worth, I'm glad that Pahor already found out that that deal wasn't good. I hope, at least in this resolution on the Adriatic Strategy, that this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party will be accepted and this is the only guarantee, indeed the only guarantee of our openness and clarity, our clear position towards neighbours and the European Union, that we simply do not leave it, the National Assembly opposes it, demands it, does not allow it to be built; of course, one of the reasons is also protective, security and so on. Some MEPs have been discussing in a direction that somehow would be against gas and against nuclear energy and I don't know what, so in general, we are some against the construction of a pipeline and so on. That's not true. There is always an exact and clear statement of what is going on. Without energy, without energy, we need to have a completely clear concept. It bothers me, however, that after something has been set up, some of the individual lobbying will fall under the influence of some. In this case, some of the connections between the biggest opposition and the largest government party, some p.p.A., I'm surprised and very disturbed. And to fall under the influence of some lobbyists who do not look at what we must, here in the National Assembly, to preserve our country and for the benefit of our citizens. These lobbyists look exclusively at their own benefits, so they are willing not only to give for dinners and so on, but to many and many. You can see that they started on some of these card houses that were made up, but they caused a lot of damage, they sent a lot of people to the stock market, they started to collapse themselves. One of these is also just before the perfect break and some who will lose a lot here, because they also got unfairly, Istrabenz, is also right. That is why I really want and appeal to the common sense of all Members and Members to return the resolution with the amendment back to the place where it was simply said to be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u253	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also believe that if we adopt the amendment, the communication of this good resolution will be strengthened in particular. And this message would be useful at the very moment when three border municipalities - one Slovenian and two Italian: Koper, Milje and Dolina - have brought a joint suit in the administrative court of the Furlania-Julia Region against the Italian Government because of the agreement issued on the basis of, I will not say, falsified, but at least insufficient documentation or processed documentation. Experts, experts at a recent meeting in Trieste in Bobbi Theatre, where scientists, experts and firefighters identified the objective danger of that terminal in Žavaje. That is why I believe that, in three years of efforts by the National Assembly to be clear and to support expectations and also to meet the expectations of the public concerned and particularly the public, it would be extremely inconsistent to begin to deviate from that determination, especially after so many reports and so many evaluations have been prepared, based on expert analyses. Look, the northern Adriatic is a very stretching term, but the fact is that the game takes place in the largest Gulf of the North Adriatic, that's the Bay of Venice. Inside this Bay of Venice we have a smaller, more closed bay called the Bay of Markets, and within this Gulf of Markets is our southern coast, exclusively Slovenian or to Savudrija. And the question is, are we aware that this is our only shore and that we must absolutely protect it? I believe that the amendment will not interfere with the negotiating power of the declaration, for this is ours. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a unilateral statement setting the example and strengthening us in further negotiations with Italy on the issue of their terminals. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Proposer? Here you go, Dr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u256	I would like to thank you for the debate, which, however, was very substantive. I would point out once again that the resolution, with or without an amendment, will achieve its purpose, because it is widely laid down, but in fact one of the elements is also the issue of terminals, and there will be no substantive changes, but it is true that the amendment is clearer, so that there will be no doubt, even the amendment itself, that is my personal position, I would support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I can't see the deadlines anymore, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 28th item of the agenda - 14. ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2008 The Ombudsman submitted a regular annual report to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, for the additional explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u258	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all those who accompany today's meeting of the National Assembly! The year 2009 is ending, and thus the first half of my term as Ombudsman. Today we will discuss the Ombudsman's report for 2008. This is an important fact to be taken into account, because in 2009, some of the things I have proposed have already been settled, but of course there are many that remain a constant of the Ombudsman's reports and recommendations. We have upgraded the 2008 annual report with the Ombudsman's formulated recommendations to facilitate their implementation in the future. Most ministries have welcomed this form of the report, which has convinced us that it is in a more transparent way a basis for more effective problem management. Unfortunately, however, it became a matter of procedural complication in the National Assembly, where the Ombudsman’s recommendations were made. When presenting the annual report in the National Assembly, I have to make a decision on certain points. In particular, I have chosen those matters which are not time-limits for 2008. If the debate proves necessary, I will also add clarifications on other topics. First, consider decommissioning and degrading the authority of state institutions, because ultimately it is those who protect human rights for individuals. The spread of mistrust and the undermining of authority to the judiciary and other authorities, but also to supervisory institutions, including the Ombudsman, can quickly return as a boomerang in the form of a breakdown of the rule of law. If the institutions of the rule of law are unable to work effectively and independently of political power holders, there will be no one who can guarantee respect for human rights. As a result, there is also concern about the rise of distrust in the health and social system. In difficult economic and social situations, institutions of the rule of law are increasingly responsible for the functioning of the rule of law institutions, which should not be allowed to manipulate and promote hatred and intolerance towards individuals, groups or institutions to create conditions for the fragmentation of the system and institutions of a democratic, legal and social state. The economic crisis must not be an excuse for the reduction of human rights in any area, especially in social areas. The State must ensure that residents can generate income for a decent life through their work. I note that there are still the most massive violations within very long periods of time, in individual cases under the judiciary, and also in administrative proceedings, particularly at the second stage. This slowness in decision-making in many cases leads to serious human rights violations in the field of social and health care, space regulation and environmental protection, which, at the same time, poses a serious threat to the principles of the rule of law. There is an increasing violation of the right to a healthy and clean, i.e. an unpolluted environment. However, I note that, as a rule, the affected individual remains powerless, whether or not it will be difficult for him to prove that, for example, a large business company by its conduct causes excessive pollution of the environment or its conduct poses a direct threat to human life or health. The State should take care of mechanisms to ensure that legal remedies are effective, regardless of who is using them. It is necessary to ensure that the status of the cases in the courts is manageable and that they can be effectively and qualitatively tried on the basis of a comprehensive and comprehensive hearing of the cases submitted and without undue delay. I also note that individuals who are socially or economically weaker are severely hampered by access to information and effective legal protection. The operation of inspection services is not effective enough. The relevance of all previous procedures and the rule of law in the country is questioned. A permanent apology and an explanation of the lack of human rights inspectors are not acceptable. We also observe uncoordinated work within individual ministries, where bodies within the Ministry make substantively different decisions. There are also many violations in the field of labour relations, both in the private and public sectors, with several types of infringements highlighted: inadequate working conditions, inadequate labour legislation and bullying or torture in the workplace. The housing law, as it is now, does not allow the state's stated commitment to the constitution to create opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing. Immediate additions would be needed, especially at the present time, when the consequences of poverty are often the most cruel in this area. The eyes of foreign ombudsmen are on us. The Slovenian model for the implementation of an optional protocol under the United Nations Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading penalties or behaviour, since we are cooperating as a State authority with NGOs; and this is a novelty in the field of public-private partnership. And watch out! The implementation of the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism is the commitment of the State Party to the Protocol, which Slovenia is. I am concerned about the slowness and lack of determination to deal with matters that are particularly unsustainable for older people. This is not only a case of poverty and violence, which the Ombudsman also reveals practically every day, but a systemic irregular stay and protection in the homes for the elderly and the services they need. I estimate that the most problematic violations that happen to the most vulnerable groups of the population are children, the elderly, the sick and those with special needs, the disabled and the handicapped. Therefore, my priorities remain the same as at the beginning of the mandate: children, older people, disabled persons and disabled persons. Slovenia is still without a legal ban on corporal punishment of children, which should seriously concern our government, which must explain to international forums this seriously unreputable fact. As a guardian, I sincerely wish that the act of an advocate of children's rights be legalized as soon as possible. This would allow many children to hear their voices and thus implement the Convention's provision that all activities relating to children should be the primary guide for children. I believe and expect my introduction to be followed by an expert and in-depth debate on the issues presented in the report, thus contributing to a higher level of respect for human rights in our country. I believe you have noticed that today the scouts and the campers have also brought into Parliament a light of peace, with the message: "What will be the flame if the heart is not with you?" That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for recommendations to the National Assembly. Since this was discussed at two meetings of the parent working body, led once by Mrs Eva Irgl as President and secondly by Vice-President Andrej Magajna, each report will be presented. Since the entire report is limited to five minutes, I'm going to split it into two parts, two minutes and a half for each. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the fact that the recommendation was not adopted, as required by the Ombudsman's report, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I have found that the 14th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2008 has been completed in the home work body. I would like to point out that my conduct has always been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and has by no means had the slightest intention of not discussing this report at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, members of the majority coalition decided not to support any of the recommendations. When they realized what a stupid thing they had done, they called a board meeting past me, in complete secrecy, while I was alone in the hospital. The meeting was called over all business regulations, and they also went to my office, where, in fact, they forced professional services to convene a commission without my knowledge and to reconsider the Ombudsman's recommendations, even though the meeting had already been concluded. If the coalition at the meeting, when we discussed the Ombudsman's report, supported the recommendations, then the Ombudsman's report would be dealt with at the October session but not supported. In no way do I oppose the consideration of the report, even more, I believe that this is extremely important and necessary, but I do not agree with the forced and grave infringements of the Rules of Procedure that we have witnessed on the Petitions Commission and on human rights and equal opportunities. Such conduct should not be for anyone sitting here in the National Assembly, to be proud, and as President of this Commission, I will not allow the members of the coalition, where the SD leaders are leading, to act in the direction of dismantling and grading this commission simply because it does not conform to the democratic principle that they must always be presidents of this commission from within the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u262	It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. Mr President, Mrs Zdenka Chebašek Travnik. Nice greetings to all fellow Members as well. On 20 November, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a request was addressed to the Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities for a request for an urgent meeting with agenda item 14 of the Ombudsman's 2008 report. In their explanation, the motions for an urgent meeting stated, inter alia, that the proposed item should already be included in the regular October meeting of the National Assembly. On 8 October, the hearing was carried out, but the point relating to the report of the Ombudsman was concluded by not allowing the hearing and decision-making at the meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Pavel Gantar, President of the National Assembly, also drew attention to the inappropriate form. Therefore, the signatories insisted that the 2008 report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia was properly addressed this year, as they considered that the non-acceptance of the report would constitute a negative signal to the Ombudsman's efforts, while at the same time severely distorting the reputation of the National Assembly. I'll cut it short because there's not much time left. So, after a brief discussion, which followed at this urgent meeting, we also voted first on the proposal of Mrs Majda Podrata to withdraw point 5 of the recommendations and then put the recommendation to the vote and unanimously adopted a four-point recommendation. I will only mention the first point, this item includes as many as 135 recommendations from the Ombudsman and covers the whole of this material. The National Assembly recommends that all institutions and officials at all levels take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the 2008 Annual Report. As I mentioned earlier, I will not discuss procedural complications here. I admit, however, that extraordinary meetings and urgent references do not contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly, especially if exceptions are not merely exceptions. I'm sorry it came. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] such situations, and I hope that we will continue to work properly with the President, as we have done so far. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I would like to remind Members and Members that, at today's meeting, we are not discussing these two reports from the Commission, but we are considering the report of the Ombudsman. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Lady Guardian with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The 2008 annual report of the Ombudsman is an extremely complex document, which repeatedly, also for this year, confirms the necessity of the existence of an independent institution. That is why the Government has instructed all departments to carefully examine the Ombudsman's findings and prepare an accurate response report and take all the recommendations into account in the formulation of sectoral policies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the seriousness and reality of the issue raised by the Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, as well as its responsibilities. Therefore, we want to improve the situation for which the assessment has been accepted that it is not well-managed or not properly implemented. This has already taken place in the field of regulating the situation of persons with disabilities, as Slovenia is one of the first countries to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and is also implementing it on the basis of the action programme adopted for persons with disabilities. However, a significant shift in this area will, according to our assessment, result in the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Personal Assistance for Persons with Disabilities, which are also in the preparatory phase. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approved the text of the Family Code, which aims to improve the situation of children in family relations, and this regulation also includes a special institution for the child. In August 2009, the Law on Mental Health began to apply and five regulations have already been adopted, which, in close monitoring of the implementation of the law by the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the providers of psychiatric treatment, monitor and resolve the problems brought by the implementation of this extremely demanding regulation. There is also a very rapid pace in the activities to which the Ombudsman reminds, i.e. activities to remove administrative barriers in various areas, and the current government has set a goal, in line with European guidelines, to reduce the number of children by a quarter by 2012 in all areas of government work and with ambition to actually improve the competitive advantages of the Slovenian economy and to speed up and bring administrative procedures closer to our citizens, i.e. procedures at all levels where rights and obligations are decided in contact with the public authorities. The resolution on normative activities was an important acquisition that this government had already sent to the National Assembly in 2009 and adopted by the National Assembly last month. This also represents an important response to the Ombudsman's warning that it is necessary to ensure public participation in the policy-making process, i.e. in the process of the Government's policy-making process, the public must have procedural assurance, participation and a response in cases where their comments are not taken into account in the regulatory process. The extensive and important work carried out by the Ombudsman and co-workers, which is summarized in the report as well as in 2008, effectively sets up a mirror for each individual authority to assess whether its work justifies the mission entrusted to it by voters in the field of human rights protection. We fully agree that the evaluation of the work of the institutions of the rule of law that have witnessed in recent years required an immediate response from the current government. And in order to ensure the independence of the institutions, the current government has regulated the constitutionally sustainable position of judges, lawyers, the State Council, as deleted - legislation is now in the process. These are all activities with which the current government wants to respond to a challenge that is also extremely important in the crisis, to defend the integrity of institutions that are essential for the development of the rule of law. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Laszlo Göncz has the floor, on behalf of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Guardian, Mrs. Chebašek Travnik, distinguished Madam Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! In the introduction, I would like to point out that we agree with the Commission's recommendations on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities in relation to the report of the Ombudsman, especially those relating to the examination of labour welfare standards, because we are well aware that the situation in this area is much worse in the past year than it was the year before. The Ombudsman's findings regarding violations of the rights of children, the elderly, the disabled and the slowness of proceedings in the courts are all areas requiring exceptional attention. I also need to stress the importance of the Ombudsman's finding on improving the resolution of the Roma problem and the issues raised with regard to this complex content, including the findings in the case of the Synth Group. The other general content of the report will be essential and, I hope, useful as well, in the views of other parliamentary groups and in a later debate. Since, within the framework of human rights, there is a special city, including the rights of the national and ethnic communities and other minorities, I will continue to focus mainly on this area, from the point of view of the Hungarian and Italian national communities. If we evaluate the 2008 report of the Ombudsman in terms of the realization of the rights of the two indigenous national communities in Slovenia, we could conclude from the Ombudsman's conclusion that the situation was formal because of the direct allegations of violations and comments addressed to the Ombudsman, there was no, therefore, that the situation was satisfactory or good. Of course, this is not entirely the case, but it is not the report or the Ombudsman's fault that points to possible problems in this area in the 2008 report. Inconsistentity and infringements should also be noted because on the basis of some general unilateral findings, a number of people create a rather unobjective picture of the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities in Slovenia. This, therefore, leads to the creation of an unbiased image of minorities, even more so in a situation where, in certain political interpretations, the situation of those communities is presented only unilaterally, in particular from the point of view of unverified and inaccurate information. As it is said, we regret to note many cases of violations of minority rights, of a direct and indirect nature, which is undoubtedly contrary to the principles of Slovenian minority policy and of legal standards. By the way, I stress that no one is questioning that the legal basis for national rights in Slovenia is quite high. Since we have begun to work more intensively with the Ombudsman or her coworkers at the beginning of the current year, and before that, information has not been received from the national communities and their members on the inconsistent exercise or violation of the rights of the institution, it is only possible to list areas where problems arise when the report is being considered. These latent possibilities of violations are also indicated in the Ombudsman's report. Therefore, if I am merely taxing some of the most pressing issues of infringement of collective minority rights, I must mention the inconsistencies in the area of bilinguality of certain legal documents and municipal decisions, the lack of bilingual documents and forms, which is why members of national communities often do not have the option of using their mother tongue, the failure to take into account the knowledge of the language of the national communities in employment in cases where this is defined by law, almost entirely leaving the language of the national communities in the economic and commercial-propaganda sphere, as also mentioned in the report, and in the field of electronic services. Furthermore, very limited opportunities for the use of mother tongue in health care, causing major problems and psychological distress mainly to older populations, problems with communication in the mother tongue in public services and could still be listed. We are aware of cases where the expressed desire of a member of the national community, who also masters the language of the majority to speak in a particular situation in the mother tongue, is accepted by an official as provocation or, which is not only a problem of nationality, when placing an inappropriate economic facility in a particular village or space does not take into account the clearly expressed position and will of affected citizens, as is the case in Močvarjevci. In short, problems, problems and direct violations are quite something, including those that have already reached the Ombudsman in the course of the current year, at least as information. I would also like to point out that in recent months we have agreed on a concrete form of cooperation between the national communities and the establishment of the Ombudsman, which I think is very important. We have already implemented some concrete programmes in this area. This is a specific area, which concerns substantive solutions, and it is therefore appropriate that we do this more intensively once a year, if possible, within the framework of the Commission for the National Community of the National Assembly. This will undoubtedly, in my opinion, contribute to encouraging members of the national communities to seek the Ombudsman in the future in the event of violations. We also welcome the positive case, which the Ombudsman mentioned in her report, which was made on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in the field of amending the law on societies. Finally, I would like to point out that, despite the different opinions and experiences in specific cases of action and in view of the different political interests and pressures, which, of course, should be prevented to the greatest extent possible by the Ombudsman, I am sure that progress has taken place in this area in recent times. This institution has become visible and important in the Republic of Slovenia, as it is also evident from the 2008 report. This is also confirmed by the relatively high level of expertise and the intensity of the operation of the institution, both the guardians and its co-workers. However, it is a fact, as she has pointed out, that the scope and quality of the activity is being spontaneously expanded and adapted to the actual circumstances in society, which is also the case in its own right. The 2008 report will be supported by a Member of the Italian National Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Expenses on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs Zdenka Chebašek Travnik with the Deputy Ombudsman. Dear Ministers and Secretaries, Members and Members of Parliament. The submission of the regular annual report of the Ombudsman to the President of the National Assembly by July, but not until 30 September, as a legal standard, allows the National Assembly to hold a debate on the report and respond to it at a time of business. This is in the autumn session. The delay in the elections last year has caused us to consider as many as two reports from the Ombudsman this year. Despite the proximity of time, there is a marked difference between them, so let me immediately say that the social democrats of the re-regulation of the report are considered a welcome novelty, so we expect the next reports not to leave but to upgrade it. Human rights and fundamental freedoms represent one of the fundamental legal values of modern civilisation and also one of the fundamental commitments of the Group of Social Democrats. Hence, any warning about their actual or potential violation is welcome and important. That is why every time the annual report is dealt with with with with great precision and seriousness, because it contains examples that the Ombudsman has chosen from among the roles received and is therefore possible to remedy violations and weaknesses in the management of the performance of the Ombudsman throughout the year. Therefore, we attach to the Ombudsman's opinion that the report is also documentary material. As we are aware that we cannot pass through a permanent problem, this is the overlap between the events of the previous year and the involvement of the current event, Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats will strive to give their central attention to the report and to the government's response report. It is precisely because of the importance of the latter in the 2008 report of the Group of Social Democrats that the Ombudsman has been invited to the meeting of the Government, by which the Government's legal obligation to allow the Ombudsman to present a regular report to the whole Government has been reintroduced. The Ombudsman stressed that the government’s response report was carefully prepared and that the Government had already followed some recommendations and there was no positive attitude of ministries to the Ombudsman’s initiatives. In particular, it expressed its satisfaction that the Government had adopted some laws in 2008 that had been pointed out to the Office for a long time that the country urgently needed them. It's the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, the Law on Patient Rights and the Law on Mental Health. These are laws that, with normative definitions, make it possible to significantly improve the situation of human rights. She also stressed the drafting of a family code to regulate the entire set of children's rights in the way the Ombudsman had been working for a long time. The changed attitude towards employees in the system of institutions for the cessation of penalties and the increase of inspection is also encouraged. In the Social Democrats Group, we attach to the Ombudsman that the proposal for a family code whose main purpose is to improve the situation of children in family relations, either before and after the court proceedings, is of paramount importance. It is therefore very important for her to express her support, although part of the public has strongly opposed certain provisions of the Family Code proposal. In the parliamentary group, we think that, I say, "More than ever before, it is necessary for the Ombudsman to represent that top of the critical public who is willing to risk also the fight against the moralization of law and the majority public opinion," the end of the sentence. I summarized this after Dr. Lev Kreft's report on human rights between democracy and populism, which he had at the age of 60 the adoption of a general declaration on human rights, of course the declaration of the United Nations and at the time of the 15th anniversary of the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman last year on the Day of Human Rights. The proposal for the final application of what the Ombudsman has been seeking for years is the prohibition of corporal punishment of children, the enforcement of the child's rights advocate and the prevention of discrimination. The public is not equally sensitive to all problems, so a number of warnings and recommendations from the Ombudsman’s reports are ignored or forgotten. In particular, it is obvious that he is overly concerned with minority problems, not with the problems of the majority. However, the Ombudsman, among the first, warned of poverty, domestic violence and other forms of violence, but of course he was also among the first to warn of the deleted, the Roma, the new minorities, homophobia and other problems we have witnessed in our society. The relationship between politics and the Ombudsman also opens up as a particular problem. As far as the dialogue between the two can go, the independence and independence of the Ombudsman can still be ensured. This is not so much the case with the individual roles of citizens and citizens, where dialogue must have its own design in order to eliminate the weaknesses and violations that make individuals turn to the Ombudsman, and with improved legislation, but especially in the part where the Ombudsman identifies himself as special subjects to which he chooses them, or when faced with public calls for value-added to individual current events, historical facts or political issues that go beyond his or her powers and tasks. It should be reiterated that the Ombudsman must comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international legal acts on human rights and fundamental freedoms in his work and that he can also refer to the principles of fairness and good governance in his interventions. In particular, in relation to the National Assembly, it points out that the Ombudsman cannot be called to account for the opinions or proposals he has made in the exercise of his office. However, the report under consideration raised a new issue. The content and format of the report has brought some new developments that are among those that have been particularly charged with dealing with the reports, and they want a great deal of approval. I am thinking mainly of the summary of proposals and recommendations at the end of each substantive set. For the Group of Social Democrats, they are an integral part of the regular report and cannot be removed from the context, they cannot be freely chosen and decided without criteria what we support and what we do not. We therefore take the report as a document of time. Specific proposals and recommendations will facilitate the monitoring of the implementation or non-implementation of these proposals. Therefore, it will also help the National Assembly to make it more transparent and clearer to see what the addressees of the proposals and recommendations have done. The European Parliament resolution on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2008 states, inter alia, that the European Parliament welcomes the exceptional cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions within the institutional framework and in relation to mutual respect for powers and special rights, and just wants it to be possible to summarise the domestic situation and to increase the role of both in the satisfaction of the people. As the role of the Ombudsman in the protection of the interests of the citizens of the European Union, in relations with the institutions and bodies of the European Union, has been strengthened within fourteen years of the establishment of his office, precisely because of his independence and the democratic control of his activities carried out by Parliament, this must also be taken into account in our work. I will not summarize the contents of the sixteenth chapters and all that the report said in the introduction, the Ombudsman, the individual chapters and cases of the Ombudsman's report will be discussed by colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group, so I will only stay on the plans for part of the Ombudsman's work in the future. Monitoring the implementation of legislation that we consider an important achievement, such as the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, on the Rights of Patients, on Mental Health, on the New Criminal Code. We particularly stress the importance of protecting children's rights, older people, disabled people and disadvantaged minorities, and especially of protecting social rights so that citizens and citizens feel their country legally and socially. Therefore, among the new projects, we expect much from the assessment of the impact of the economic crisis on the social and health situation of the population. In order to assess the role, importance and reputation of the Ombudsman, it will be welcome to provide a substantive analysis of the work carried out in specific areas at the Ombudsman's 15-year anniversary, in particular since a comparison will also be made with the findings of other national institutions of the Ombudsman. We promise that this will also give us a clearer picture of the movement of the number of applications received, and of their content, as well as their eligibility. The increase in the number of applications is not necessarily linked to the increase in eligible applications, for example from the European Ombudsman's report: in 2007 it received three thousand two hundred eleven applications, in 2008 about two hundred more, but in 2007 eighty-seven hundred and seventy were eligible and in 2008 it was almost seventy fewer. Thus, the share of eligible applications was 26.4% in 2007 and 23.5% in 2008. Thus, statistics alone without adequate interpretation do not provide a clear statistical basis for determining the state of human rights. As an interesting only if you look at the statistical annexes, the most applications were considered and completed in 2002 and not in 2008. In the Parliamentary Joint Social Democrats, we are aware of the importance of the report for the work of Members and Members, in particular for the assessment of the quality of the legislation adopted, and in this context, we take full note of the seriousness of the warning of the rapid change in the situation, in particular the inadequacies associated with the involvement of civil society, the length and manner of public debate. The report is also the starting point for Members of the initiative and the issue, in short, for all those activities which are inherent to the Member's work. And for the conclusion, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a recommendation to the 14th periodic report of the Ombudsman for 2008 and on behalf of the whole group, I express the recognition and thanks to the Ombudsman for his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Guardian, Members and Members of Parliament. Before limiting myself to the content of the report, I would also like to make a few words first of all to the unacceptable event when the report is being considered by the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. I must say that I was directly amazed at the events that took place on the committee, because the members of the coalition, members of the commission, simply took the right to convene a meeting with me as President of the Commission, because they were not satisfied with the result of the vote they had decided on themselves, at a closed session where we had considered the Ombudsman's report and where they had rejected all the recommendations I had proposed. Such insolent conduct cannot, and must not, be proud of anyone and shows above all how the coalition rules over the apparent incompetence of the government, which is now visible in most areas, completely loses ground under its feet. Not to mention that it is no wonder that, as a result of such behaviours that took place on the Commission for Petitions, Parliament is losing both its reputation and its credibility. A member of the Commission later wanted to show by press statements that I was fighting some sort of battle with the Ombudsman and therefore I did not want the Ombudsman's report to come to the National Assembly. This is a totally unrealistic fiction that was created in the coalition lines after they saw that they themselves had made a mistake and that because of their stupidity the report could not be included in the October meeting of the National Assembly. I myself have been fully acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and have not had any difficulty in handling the report at the October session, so there are malicious allegations that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I personally, I am acting against the Ombudsman, unjustifiable and even entirely unfounded, unless in this country, since the authority took over Borut Pahor, Borut Pahor should no longer be alerted to the functioning of the institutions, and in cases where this is necessary, be critical of the work of people who are in such functions as the Ombudsman. Such behaviour, that the Vice-President convenes a meeting in complete secrecy, that the staff members must be pressured, that they must act contrary to the rules of procedure, that they should sit in my office without permission and in it, while I am alone in the hospital, plotting a secret plan for the holding of a meeting of which opposition Members, who are not members of the commission, are not even informed, is unacceptable and is also criminal in some segments. Ironically, it is quite ironic that the Commission, which points out how unacceptable it is to exert pressure and mobility on employees, even if this is done from a position of power, happens exactly the latter. It is not surprising, therefore, that the fear and discomfort among employees in the various areas of work have been spreading so markedly recently. Of course, in such a tense atmosphere it is difficult to work, which also affects work processes and, as a result, the poor social climate as a whole. The Ombudsman also notes in her report, which we are considering today, that there is an increasing number of so-called mobile workers, whom the victim, thank God, is also increasingly recognized as unacceptable, even because of this awareness that it is a crime that can be punished even by deprivation of liberty up to these years. In her presentation to the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Ombudsman therefore stated, inter alia, that in the future, she would devote even more time to mobbin or bullying in the workplace, given the situation in which the country is located, as well as the impact of the economic crisis on the social and health situation of the population. This announcement by the Ombudsman of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors is, of course, welcome. We therefore have before us the 14th periodic report of the Ombudsman, where the Ombudsman's report identifies in which cases human rights were most frequently violated in 2008 the topics to which the highest attention was given in the previous year. We can see from the report in which cases legislation is not respected, when and why individuals most often turn to the Ombudsman’s office. In short, the report represents a kind of intersection in the protection, respect and violation of human rights that should never have been trampled, and should never have been affected by the various movements, factors, causes, any kind of interference with human dignity and integrity. The Ombudsman in the introduction of the report says that the analysis of the situation in the field of human rights is a very difficult and responsible task. Of course, all of us who are present at this meeting today certainly agree with this, since this means that the Ombudsman must deal with a particular issue impartially, objectively, especially with a strong sense of justice, and also that he must not adapt his position to any current political situation or to the problems of individuals and groups in any political way. The Ombudsman shall be the first person in the country to exercise respect for human rights in the protection of such persons exclusively and solely on the basis of the Constitution, declaration and resolution on human rights, international acts, conventions, laws and in no way after the possible dictatorship of policies and their representatives. This is the only way to increase trust in such an institution in humans. This is particularly important for all the most vulnerable groups of people, such as people with disabilities, children who are older, who do not have an apparatus for NGOs, the media, certain policies that would put pressure on them to achieve their objectives in a fair manner. To illustrate, the situation of deleted persons is practically addressed by the whole state, Minister Kresalova has been working more or less with the return of decisions and compensations erased almost a year after she took office as interior minister. There's a lot of media on this, too. While those who have been alerting their rights for years, for example, to injuries after World War II, do not spend so much time, even ink in the media is significantly less spilled than in the previous subject. Probably because they do not have the entire cycle of left-wing political parties, as well as non-governmental organisations and media supporting them in exercising their rights and raising their voices instead when they need this attention and protection. And that is why such a guardian institution needs to be impartially watching over whether an individual has actually been violated human rights. When Dr. Zdenka's respected guardian, Cebašek Travnik, was appointed to this certainly difficult and responsible work or function, I myself had great confidence in her, even given the obvious political definition of her predecessor. It seemed to me that she had been particularly concerned about the most vulnerable groups for her mandate, I am of course talking about children, disabled people, elderly people, pensioners, because during her predecessor's time we have witnessed him devoting himself more or less to the so-called marginal groups, and we have repeatedly forgotten the most vulnerable. And here we must admit to the current guardian that she has certainly taken a major step forward in caring for the most vulnerable groups. On the Commission, as well as today, she said that she would continue to improve or improve cooperation with both domestic and foreign institutions dealing with handicapped, older people and children in the future. Unfortunately, I must say that, in some cases, we would expect much more involvement and attention from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in some cases, such as the attitude towards half-lived history, post-war beatings, we would like to have a clear view of the Ombudsman's view of the revival of Communist symbols, the establishment of the Tito Road in 2009, which was an indisputable dictator, how he views outright hatred of the Roman Catholic Church, which, with the support of left-wing parties and the media, is even more likely to see the Ombudsman's view of the current events, such as the appointment of Zavgajevo as ambassador, is a man who has beaten human rights and is also a cover for crimes against his own nation. We are also interested in how the Ombudsman views the award of Mr Tomaž Ertl, who represents a symbol of human rights violations for Slovenians. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it would be expected that a person in such a position would come forward with such controversial and extremely unethical appointments and decorations, which raise great concerns in people and today are already strong objections. Because of its function, the Ombudsman has great power of speech and influence over its content, especially because of the content it covers. Therefore, it is still expected to respond when it comes to the obvious abuse of respect for human rights, as we have seen in recent months. It is more than obvious that there are really interesting things going on in this country, that I do not say strange things that want to put some truths on the head and revalue some social events, which is to be achieved with the considerable support of the representatives that this government and the political left have set up in all the key positions - from civil society to the media, the most important state functions. And all of this points to some abnormal state in the country, which is already in itself calling for a newly established plurality and openness. Why am I saying this? Because at last year's Ombudsman's report, I said that we would be interested in monitoring in the Slovenian Democratic Party whether the Ombudsman's next report, which we are looking at today, will be able to track the record of this, not a purely normal state for a country in which democracy and the spectrum of different thoughts are to rule. And then I said, quote, "Today, unfortunately, we cannot assert this and we can peacefully say that a certain part of the population, which is also entitled to a different opinion, is a violation of human rights." End of quote. And what do we find today? Not only is this still the case, but we find that the situation is even worse today. However, no record of this can be found within the report, although we would expect it. Therefore, as a respected guardian, today, since I have the opportunity, I ask: Do you personally think this situation, when virtually everything has one political option in hand, is normal? What is your position on the honor of Mr Tomaž Ertl and also on the appointment of Ambassador Zawgaev? The next topic, which appears within the report and is certainly very important, is the issue of media, more specifically, the issue of sensational reporting. The Ombudsman points out that the media have over and over again given the advantage of sensationalism, that they overly interfere with the privacy of people and thus cause additional trauma to those affected by the reporting. Above all, it is unacceptable that despite repeated warnings, the identity of children is still revealed in the media when, due to a desire for greater reading and ratings, family tragedies are being reported sensationally. Therefore, the Ombudsman here is clear and says that it is necessary to find as effective mechanisms as possible to limit such sensationalism reporting, since more than obvious media restraints are not working. The Ombudsman therefore welcomes the solutions in the new penal code adopted by the previous government and against which, by the way, today's coalition was against. The Penal Code provides the possibility of sanctioning children when harmful exposure occurs, which can cause major consequences and severe trauma to children and adolescents. With regard to the protection of children in the context of reporting to the media in cases of domestic violence, the above-mentioned law on the prevention of domestic violence has also been adopted, where a specific article deals with the problem. In fact, the victims or perpetrators of violence must not be subject to publicly available data on the basis of which the victim or her family could be identified in any way and the transmission of data may only be made subject to the consent of the full-year victim. The law thus imposes on parents, children’s caregivers, foster parents or foster parents the responsibility to protect the child from exposure to the public in the context of the implementation of their care. I have already said that the new penal code adopted by the government of Janez Janša also brings news in this area of child protection in the context of media exposure. It is therefore a criminal offence to publish the personal data of a child who is a participant in a judicial, administrative or any other proceedings or to publish other information on the basis of which his or her identity could be identified. The penalty for this is either a fine or a sentence of up to three years. Sensational reporting is also a problem, however, when it is only because of political interests that someone wants to be slandered in public, although it can only be speculation and flooding without any evidence. Let us mention only the case of Patrio and the false accusation that the former Prime Minister had received a bribe. A lie was thrown out in public just before the elections, but it was not supported by any of the slightest evidence. It's a shame what can be done in this country just to get someone in power. However, in the Ombudsman’s 2008 report, this unacceptable interference in a good name was not traceable. Such an important affair, but there was not a word within the guardian's report! In the 2008 report, the Ombudsman also highlights the legal position of journalists, who he says are often insecure and which affects the quality and independence of their work. In doing so, and I must also say that I agree here with the Ombudsman, the latest case of journalist Mešek, who was thrown on the road because he was not in the will of the new authority and whose case was also dealt with by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. Within the Ombudsman's reports as well as last year, there is a lot of room for recognition of the enemy speech. And here I absolutely agree with the guardian that there is a need to find a solution to how we will effectively prosecute and punish the hate speech that is increasing. He is increasingly present in various online forums where, unfortunately, online administrators do not perform their work and in many cases allow hate speech that interferes with different areas from political to sexist to homophonic and religious hate speech. These are all forms that Internet portal editors should actually recognize as inappropriate, and legislation should be amended in a way that would not allow such abuses or penalise a user who spreads hate speech. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we agree that this area needs to be regulated, but we must be consistent, and especially bear the same criteria for all, but not that in the political hate speech that takes place and is present, we condemn the one who usually comes from the right when we talk about political hate speech, but, most often, in the hostile speech of the left-wing politicians, we keep our mouth shut or pretend that it is only an awkward statement. The Ombudsman also recalls the hate speech that touches religious communities, in particular the promotion of religious intolerance to the Roman Catholic Church in online media and forums. Promoting also hate speech by the current authorities, here I am referring mainly to the writing of the Minister of Culture on the blog, where by her writing she went gravely into the personality of the Director of Television of Slovenia Jože Možine and the President of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia Dr Staneta Grande; and of course we could still list. There's a lot of these cases. The Ombudsman's report is, of course, faced with a number of other problems affecting the area of human rights violations and is such an important indicator, particularly in terms of what needs to be corrected, where legislation needs to be amended, where there is a need to be particular attention in order to find a suitable solution to individual problems. And from this point of view it is certainly a welcome and important document.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u272	Honourable Presidents, Government Representatives, Honourable Guardian, Colleagues and Colleagues. It is clear to all that the way to respect human rights is the path of the Cross. Why is that? Probably because we don't all understand them the same way, including the views, the presentations of the opinions of the sent groups show this to us. I understand that the Office of the Ombudsman takes and understands human rights as they must be taken and understood. It has long experience in this area, the fourteenth is already this report, which we are currently considering and in this part they can believe. They shall, however, draw up a report on the basis of the applications submitted, shall see and assess, on the basis of the applications submitted, the area in which the most infringement occurred in a given year, and shall, of course, conclude what is to be done further. If anyone in this report misses something, it will likely be the reason that this matter has not been given to the Ombudsman. If that were the case and it would make sense for this application to be valid and meaningful, it would probably be considered. Many of these applications are, and as a result, recommendations to the Ombudsman's report have been made. I think that all one hundred and fifty, which are properly justified, have a good reason not to doubt, at least we in the Group of Members do not doubt or favour which of the recommendations is more important and which is not. Although it has to be said that this year's report was quick, it was already mentioned in June, and the government's response report could have been prepared earlier, and some measures could have taken place earlier than if everyone were only catching their last hands, which is commendable for respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. We can see that even if the Ombudsman's report is not dealt with in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, this does not mean that individual responsible public officials and officials do not take these recommendations seriously, that the legislation is not being corrected, that the acts of law are not being corrected and that procedures are not being followed in accordance with these guidelines of the Ombudsman. Of course, on the other hand, we have officials from this country who do not take these recommendations so seriously. We have a case like this, unfortunately, even in this house. At the hearing of the Ombudsman's report, of some more than 130 recommendations, almost 40 of these recommendations have fallen out of line with the proposals to be endorsed by the Commission for Human Rights as a mother's labour force. What were the 40 recommendations for not finding a way into the final report to be adopted by the Commission? These recommendations applied to Roma, prisoners or, as some prefer to say, marginal groups, and it is necessary to know that these marginal groups are, by definition, those to whom human rights are likely to be reduced, because they are marginal because of their differences, they tend to be violated because they are different from the majority groups, so it is logical for the Ombudsman to devote himself to them. If we are all honest with ourselves, we will find that each one of us will probably have a personal circumstance in which each one of us can be part of one marginal group, maybe someone is limping on the left leg, the other is less visible on the right eye, and in no way can we say that we are all always majority, so in short we must also have an understanding for all marginal groups. The proposed recommendations to the Commission did not include more than 40 of those proposed by the Ombudsman, namely, in this new structure of the report, which is more transparently followed by the action taken by the competent authorities or other branches of authority on the basis of this report and better regulated by this area, this should be said. In addition, I will say that the 40 recommendations that have been lost have been translated into the proposed working material by some new ones concerning police and judicial conduct. In dealing with the working body, it has proved that the majority of the members of the Human Rights Commission understand the views of the Ombudsman as meractic and recommendations she has made as mermaids and therefore supports them all and in full. The procedural complications that you will be able to assess on your own also on the basis of a report presented by the President of the Commission in two and a half minutes, as far as it was available here, are those that encouraged the need to meet again under the second leadership, under the procedure followed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to adopt an opinion in the home working body so that today we can consider this report by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. Thank God, at least this year, even though it could have been at a previous session, perhaps in October, but surely it can be in November. Among all the opinions or areas referred to by the Ombudsman as problematic has been the public word or ethics of the public word for years. At the hearing of this year's report by the Ombudsman, we were able to see what progress has been made in the area of ethics. The president of the working body, who deals with this report by the Ombudsman, directly appointed most of the members of this working body to be stupid, of course, because they were supposed to do the stupid thing they were supposed to do later, although of course it was only for us to feel obliged, to do what the legislation requires us to do as the working body of the National Assembly: to express our due respect for the Ombudsman and to do what we have to do. Today, of course, these recommendations are here, in front of you, the report is ready. You yourself have also been able to dig deeper into the Ombudsman's report, with his transparency, perhaps your work has been easier than ever. As has already been said, some of the recommendations have already been implemented while writing the government’s response report, some prior to this hearing in the National Assembly, and some are happening now that we are speaking, a family code has been mentioned here, and it may also be worth mentioning the possibility of monitoring the daily informative broadcast for deaf people in sign language, and some other things would be found. Each speaker will likely find his own theme, which he would like to highlight as problematic. I think that particular attention should also be paid to the area of mobile, which has been growing in the last year, especially in the case of harassment in the workplace where the employer is a country, especially where the repressive apparatus of the country is concerned. In this 2008 report, you will find a particularly exposed case of harassment of employees in the Slovenian Army, not for any reason, but for the reason that they took advantage of Article 190 on working relationships, which gives parents some additional benefits if you want, and that parenthood is the reason for discrimination in the Slovenian Army, of course concern. Therefore, in the case of the other legal changes already mentioned, consideration should also be given to the compatibility of the labour law with the service law in the Slovenian Army and the defence law, because if the military does not understand who it protects, in short, the children of this country and its future, there is probably no help for it, and if it acquires its knowledge in such hot and hot spots all around the world. As we say, in the Group of Members, we are really pleased with this report, especially its new forms, transparency. As far as the contents are concerned, we commend the guardian with all due respect and consistency. We will make every effort to make the most of our recommendations on possible legislative changes to ensure that changes are made in the direction that ensures greater respect for human rights. We hope that the next report of the Ombudsman can be dealt with earlier than at the December session. We also hope that the next report will be cheaper than it is. In order for this to happen, all of us who can do anything to help do so must do our part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u274	Nice greetings, respectable vice-president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected guardian with co-workers, respected minister, distinguished representatives of many ministries! The 14th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2008 is before us and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the National Assembly must consider the Ombudsman's report for several reasons, regardless of the complications in adopting recommendations on the parental committee. Firstly, out of respect for the independent institution of the Ombudsman, secondly, on the grounds that we should point out and address the pressing problems that the report points out and thirdly, in particular in order for the Government and the responsible institutions to take into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman and to take appropriate action. We would also like to draw attention to a few warnings that have been raised. The fact is, the most pressing problems are drawn from year to year. Many, such as the backlogs, are not affected by Parliament, we can only warn and call on the ministries and judicial authorities to act. The Ombudsman reports that, while the statistical backlog has been partially reduced, it is worrying that it is being addressed by initiators who are still reporting on nine or more years of ongoing procedures. This problem is drawn from the report, from year to year, despite the fact that laws and measures are being adopted at the initiative of the judicial branch, and even a great deal has recently been adopted and perhaps even an unjustified increase in salaries in the judicial branch in view of the crisis. This is unacceptable and contrary to the constitutional right to the legal security of citizens - it is said, these backlogs - but in particular the right to be tried within a reasonable time is not met. Concerned are the warnings on social security and health, housing problems and the like, and we therefore support all the recommendations in this area. The requirement of the task is something that some ministries and other authorities are trying to explain the backlogs in meeting the individual requirements they have been asked to meet. Such clarifications should be given special attention by ministers and ministers and other responsible persons, as they clearly state that a particular service does not manage the problem in question. To all of us Members and Members of Parliament, the following finding of the Ombudsman should be inserted, which should be taken into account when adopting legislation and other regulations. The superficiality of the assessment of the interaction between individuals has determined that a new right is to be established is to blame for many uncertainties and inconsistencies that directly or indirectly reduce the right of an individual. In the view of the Ombudsman, new laws are adopted too quickly and too little is taken into account by the professional and other public. Once again, the Ombudsman recommends that public participation in the adoption of regulations be regulated by a specific law and that it also set out a range of participants, a time of discussion, a way of transmitting comments and an obligation on the part of the holders of such debates to identify them pending comments and proposals received. In the parliamentary group, we add that the Government should also take into account the public debates that we are having in the National Assembly, and we have recently witnessed two laws on how the majority of public debates have been ignored and even disregarded. I am talking about the family code and also about the disputed law on agricultural land. The State Election Commission, the Ombudsman's initiative for better information in electoral and referendum procedures, and a warning that some of the data missing were published less than two weeks before the expiry of the legislative deadlines, were understood by the State Election Commission as a question of where the State Election Commission's activity should go. We agree with the Ombudsman's finding, because the right to information and the right to co-decision the fundamental rights of citizens and also to the success of democracy. The National Election Commission may need reinforcements for these tasks, but we would certainly like more proper cooperation with the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has given considerable attention to religious freedom and religious communities, since already in chapter 1/1 - Freedom of conscience, he devotes considerable attention and space to this issue. Although the Ombudsman welcomes the decision of the Office for Religious Communities, which in November prepared a consultation with representatives of religious communities on hate speech and on the appearance of religious intolerance, the Prosecutor informed the prosecution of the alleged attacks on Muslim religious facilities and, in some other cases, of the suspicion of the violation of religious intolerance. We welcome the Ombudsman's sensitivity to religious freedom and particularly support her position and the expectation that, under the law on religious communities, it will be possible to exercise this right in social protection institutions in due course. In the field of health care and insurance, the Ombudsman faces problems both at systemic level and in relation to the individual and health service providers. The efforts to reduce the implementation of the law on patient rights cannot yet be confirmed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it seems important to mention a recommendation that everyone should follow. It recommends that as soon as possible the preparation of the adoption be supplemented by a Health Action Act, which should deal more appropriately with the issue of award of concessions and the adoption of a law on role-making, the award of concessions under the General Administrative Procedure Act on the basis of a public tender. Human rights include the right to a healthy, clean, unpolluted environment that greatly affects the quality of life and health of all people. While it is a new right that has recently been given special attention by the whole world, countries are calling special ombudsmen for the environment. We therefore support the proposal to establish as soon as possible a system of authorisation to carry out secret measurements, accreditation, a system of measurement control and the allocation of powers to carry out and verify the quality of these measurements. Finally, in the Slovenian People's Party, we support the Ombudsman's report, as well as all the recommendations made, while at the same time expressing to the Ombudsman all the recognition and commendation of her work as well as the compliments for the well-prepared annual report. However, we do not support the Commission's third decision, which is proposed in the Commission's report on petitions and human rights, which, in our view, has also been called wrongly by the Vice-President without the knowledge of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Ombudsman and Assistant Minister and Madam Minister, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues, allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Ombudsman's annual report for 2008. We have dealt with all the areas in the parliamentary group in June, but in the report or in the positions I will only present those areas of particular interest to us. So, in the DeSUS Group, we took an interest in reviewing the Ombudsman's annual report, which is the 14th in a row. The report was extensive, well-prepared, and case-based. In fact, the Ombudsman's Institute is set up to control the work of State authorities in some way and also to point out shortcomings in legal rules or in government services that need to be amended. We welcome the fact that the 2008 report contains, for the first time, recommendations to the National Assembly, but there are many of these, and I think it would suggest that these recommendations should be brought together slightly and thus given greater weight. We have focused in particular on social issues, where it is possible to see the decline in initiatives on poverty and social distress. According to our assessment, this is not a sign that the situation in our country has improved - that is, that people in distress have recognized that the Ombudsman's Institute is not intended for concrete material assistance, but only to advise and warn policy about inappropriate solutions. In the DeSUS Group, we are concerned by the decline in the number of initiatives on the subject, that people have given up hope that they see no more the point in alerting to their plight. At the same time, according to our assessment, there are still a lot of people who are still unaccounted for or unable to turn to the Ombudsman for help. We are aware of the Ombudsman's efforts to bring her mission as close as possible to the general public, namely to citizens and citizens, and therefore we feel that there is an appropriate reflection on the Ombudsman's administration and functioning on the ground. I'm sure that's what people want. However, we should also consider the official hours of the guardian in the field, i.e. in individual provinces. It is also fitting for us to consider making the biggest and worst violations of human rights public. I know that this would be relatively difficult for the guardian because we are aware that the individual is always very serious, but there is a second moment here, namely the public condemnation of the offender, which would certainly have a preventive effect especially in that the Ombudsman does not have the direct power to take concrete action. One of the most pressing topics, therefore, is the rise in poverty mainly among older people living alone with a low pension. The most risky groups are people with disabilities who receive the lowest monthly income. People who struggle with poverty also get sick because of inadequate living conditions and low living standards, making the situation they are in even worse. As a result, they are also socially isolated because of their shame, which drives them to the social edge itself. The fact is that poverty must be defined and placed in a broader context and the difference between official and actual poverty recognized. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Ombudsman's finding that it would be useful to consider a national strategy for the eradication of poverty and its emerging forms and the treatment of those in poverty. More appropriate and human-friendly programmes for the personal activation of the poor should be developed, and they should be encouraged to seek solutions. Getting out of poverty requires more opportunities, more opportunities, so we need to approach deregulation of the welfare system and ensure a much higher level of social minimum. According to the DeSUS Group, the increasing incidence of poverty must be addressed quickly and the rise in poverty must be stopped. However, we fear that, given the current situation in the Slovenian and world economy and the threats to the freezing of pensions, the number of poor will continue to increase. This means an increasing risk that social problems in our country will escalate to a wider extent. Social work centres are often mentioned in the report, more than an institution that does not carry out its mission well enough. But perhaps this does not mean that this institution should be reorganised, freed from bureaucratic and formalistic procedures and strengthened by an advisory function, with greater jurisdiction on the ground? And if we look at social assistance, we can say that some are very low, but it is unacceptable that in the current situation and in the information society there is no link between all the credit institutions and the institutions that offer this assistance. In this way, the possibility of abuse of all these social aids is also not excluded. According to our assessment, the special care given to an ageing society should apply to older people who turn to their guardians much less than other categories of the population. Older people are often unjustifiably excluded from social events and from the preparation and formulation of strategies directly affecting them. In our view, preventive programmes should continue to be developed to ensure the quality of life for the elderly and their inclusion in the social environment and beyond. In doing so, we must not forget the commitments made in the coalition agreement to establish an office for the elderly during the current term of office. One of the areas for the elderly is very attractive, this is the area of institutional protection, especially admission to retirement homes. In 2008, the Ombudsman received fewer complaints concerning waiting periods and the admission of older persons to institutional protection. However, according to our assessment, this does not mean that waiting types are shrinking, but that people have also learned in this case that the guardian has no effect on faster admission to home care. On the other hand, there is a fear that many families will take their parents out of the institutional protection system so that they can also provide their families with their pension with a greater existence. It has turned out that standards and standards for the implementation of individual types of household care services no longer meet the actual needs of residents of the home and do not allow both the provision of services as they would like and threaten the quality of services achieved so far, in accordance with modern professional approaches. Many older homes are also architecturally inadequate to meet their current needs, since they do not offer their residents privacy because of their multiple rooms. Due to the increasing incidence of dementia in our society and consequently to the increasing number of demented residents in our homes, the number of protected departments, but protected to the point of ensuring the preservation of personal dignity and the protection of personal dignity and the protection of human rights, must be adequately increased. A very large institutional protection gap is, in particular, a lack of capacity. And since our population is old and the government is not planning to build two houses in the coming budget, despite the coalition commitment, as requested by the DeSUS Group, this topic will remain unresolved for a long time. Although the government predicts that by 2010, 5% of people over 65 years of age should be included, it seems to us that this is very difficult to reach. Special attention should also be paid to the abuse of the elderly, and I am thinking of protecting and protecting myself. It is essential to introduce a system of advocacy for the elderly and to regulate the knowledge of the advocates in a systematic and legal manner. The report also gives rise to great concern and the activities of the Ombudsman for the rights of children. Child advocate - great institution, great idea! I think it is a species in the National Assembly to adopt the Children's Advocate Act as soon as possible, because it will be possible to ensure the performance of the advocacy function throughout Slovenia, not only in selected pilot projects, social work centres. Finally, I would like to touch another problem facing Slovenian pensioners. The fact is that when a person retires, the status of a person changes from an employee to a pensioner. This does not mean that a pensioner is deprived of his profession, education, knowledge, so the professor is still a professor, an engineer is still an engineer and so on. However, we have a special phenomenon when people who are retired are identified with an undefined status of pensioner. This, in our opinion, constitutes an intervention in the human right to a obtained title and profession, which consequently means the anonymisation of a very large group of people. This status is being cashed out in a way that makes it known that he is no longer employed, but he does not say anything about what he has gained in life, what he knows and how he can still use it in society. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Ombudsman that all records, definitions, status descriptions, communications, and so on, should include the education or profession acquired by an individual during his or her lifetime. In the DeSUS Group, we have a positive assessment of the comprehensive report, and we hope that it is not largely due to the increase in human rights violations, although the Ombudsman's initiatives have been more than in the past years. Perhaps I would mention only that the summary, clear indications of which of the Ombudsman's findings and recommendations have been made by which State or public sector bodies have taken the recommendations into account and which have not. This would specifically assess where progress is being observed and where it is to observe stagnation at the expense of human rights violations in our country. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we assess that the report is good, that it is a good starting point and guidance, a guide to all ministries and governments, and that is why we thank and congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u278	Good day to you all. But I will not boast of the beautiful aesthetic appearance of this book, because we have been given a photocopy, so that this photocopy also corresponds to the content and the way in which this report is received on the committee or on the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The coalition made an effort to take advantage of the President's absence from the hospital and then, in its own way, failed this wagon. But if we go to the report alone, I think there's some real meat on these bones. It is mainly a statistical process of various events and a description of what has happened, and finally what the Ombudsman has done, and this part is missing. In fact, it is described and written about what has happened in any decision, what has not been done, and what should have been done, that we all know because if something is not done, someone complains, and if we look at the laws, we see what is not done. But what did the guardian do? Nothing! With her four deputies and her entire supply of headquarters and her professional associates, she could do much more. The report makes it clear that the work of the Ombudsman is not effective enough. The fact is, cooperation with or without the guardian is also unsuccessful. This is pointed out by many NGOs as well as other organisations. Also, cooperation with parliamentary groups, Members or something like that could be better, in fact, it is not. The fact that the guardian is prepared to meet the parliamentary group just before the report is reported is insufficient. I also think that the Commission receives huge amounts for petitions, even from our own Slovenian national parties, of materials to which the Ombudsman should provide them. I think that the Commission is moving forward with these people's difficulties that we should discuss, but it's none of this. If we take the very beginning of this report, we see that from the six sides there is something about children's rights at the end, and I think that children are one of the most fragile populations in the country. We're doing everything we can here. First, the guardian stumbles against the National Election Commission, who works by law. Let the Ombudsman propose a change of law, but she will do something different. Then the lady still suffers from opposition to the construction of the mosque, but we did have a referendum in Switzerland that showed the situation in Europe. In France, analysis was carried out and with 80% of such a referendum would go through, in Germany with about 72% of the majority, so governments do not allow this referendum. There's something similar here. They also do not allow freedom of thought and expression in Slovenia. Just as the Ombudsman speaks of hate speech, one asks what is the 39th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of freedom of speech and expression. What is hate speech? If a person uses expressions that are in Slovenian literature and expressions that actually stand, like a Gypsy, should he say Roma? Why is that? The Gypsies themselves say they're proud to be Gypsies and not Roma. If we move forward, it's a whole series of things, but let's stop at one - the issue of minority representatives. In Slovenia, the Hungarian minority receives more than EUR 20 million for its operations. The Slovenian minority in Hungary receives about 600,000 euros! The Italian minority gets huge amounts of money, has its own TV, its own radio, and I don't know what else, the Slovenians on the Italian side don't get anything practical! Now they're kind of spouting some money so they can start working in the market theater again. And what does the guardian lady do? She doesn't care because it's not a marginal group. These are the representatives of the majority nation, who can be oppressed, who can walk on because they respect the laws, they will bow their heads in one way or another, and they will remain silent. It's our Slovenia! Of course, foreigners and asylum seekers - here all things must be given, only that they will feel good that there will be more in Slovenia and that we will give them everything that we will never and never give to our own Slovenian citizens. It's fucking sad! So I don't jump too hard, let's say we stop with health care and insurance. What about the doctors? So many medical errors, but only the requirements for improving the financial situation and making more money! And where is the Ombudsman here? She's not here. And we have a whole bunch of health crap - but the guardian doesn't care. And there's something parallel. If we go to court. A lot of bad, inadequate, unfair and unconstitutional judgments are in the Slovenian judiciary. And what happens? Nothing. There's nothing the nanny wants to know! Judges raise their salaries as much as they like, and of course our guardian lady does not care. Well, on the six sides here in the introduction, we come to the last few lines where it says about children's rights that must remain at the forefront. On the other hand, I remember that the guardian lady jumped up to the point of hiding the names of the pedophiles, because we can hurt them if their name is published somewhere. What about the kids? What about raped children? That doesn't matter! That doesn't matter. It is important to keep the name of the pedophile so that he can continue to "start his pig's labor". I think that this matter that we have before us is unconstant, bad, one bad statistical summary, a list of certain events, and we certainly will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u279	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u280	Respectable, respected guardian, escort, ministers, secretaries and everyone else! First, we owe the guardian at least two excuses. One reason is that we were unable to take any serious consideration of the report, which has mirrored all institutions and officials in the country. It is a report by an independent institution which is obliged to warn everyone working at the border or across the borders of regulations that they are doing wrong and that they need to change or to change certain rules that may make individuals and institutions aware that human rights are understood more wrongly, wrongly, otherwise than generally established and achieved both in the most developed countries and, I hope, from year to year, that this level improves with us. And secondly, it is certainly necessary to apologize to the Ombudsman and to give her all the support she had in the middle of last year's media attack, produced apparently by the then ruling coalition, when she commented on certain things, that is, on page 41, on page 41, you can read very well what the guardian should actually do, what she should not do, and that this is what is fundamental. And that the guardian can be told by someone through the media - power, that is - how to act to be right. Where it finds that something is wrong, it is better not to say that it does not record that it does not alert the authorities and institutions that it is necessary to act differently. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we understand the report as a whole. We understand it by not being able to deal with individual chapters in a way that, according to individual comments, the findings of the recommendation are accepted and forwarded to institutions and officials who should do something in a particular area, and other recommendations when they are not relevant. For us, every recommendation, every conclusion for itself, and everything, in fact, is a mirror. And anyone who has something to do with certain tasks in this area must consider it as such. We probably also have rules on how we accept this report every year, that we need to adopt recommendations, so it is right that we have supported all the recommendations made by the Ombudsman, who is over 100, in one decision and that we have added two more conclusions added by Members, two proposals in which we have made very important messages to the authorities of this country, and I believe that these recommendations will also be adopted. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that the National Assembly must also do certain things based on the recommendations of this report, because some things have been going on too long; for example, the implementation of Constitutional Court decisions in certain areas. We in the coalition and in the Liberal Democracy have committed ourselves as soon as possible, I think we are already delaying some of the realisations of certain decisions of the Constitutional Court, but I believe that decisions in the field of deleted as well as all others still to be implemented will also be implemented. On the other hand, we will, of course, listen to all the warnings, the recommendations that also relate to amendments to certain laws that may be too narrow, too weak to protect certain human rights or the individual's dignity to put all the energy there, all those laws; there is much talk about social, health, other areas, other laws. We do not think that this applies only to ministers, other civil servants and so on, but it also belongs to us to raise our voices with all responsibility or to prepare certain legal solutions ourselves and to try to adopt them in the National Assembly. At each hearing, in fact, a particular area, which is also addressed by the Ombudsman in the report, should be taken into consideration and the law taken into account when it comes to the agenda, what recommendations, what findings were made in the previous year or perhaps even years ago. And the country, all the institutions that should take care of progress, have failed, have not been able to resolve certain things at a certain time. Yes, as this report is now being prepared, systematised by individual chapters with recommendations is, in fact, a direct manual for addressing the subject in a specific social field. That is why I believe that today, without any controversy with the guardian, with her acting in the way of trying to discredit her, as well as with the previous guardians, this is not new, but, of course, when we are dealing with the report or with some of the Ombudsman's findings, it is unacceptable, in our view, that we are dealing with the job, with the guardian, with her methods and so on, with the preparation of the report. Once again, we regret that this has taken place for so long and that we have finally only come back in 2009 with this report before the National Assembly, but this year we have this report under consideration and in the Liberal Democracy Club we will support all three recommendations or proposals for conclusions that are in the report, because it is even possible that we go beyond just confirming the report and adopting recommendations, because we also see a lot of things, we find and it is also right to point out these things and then insist that things are being done as we think it would be better to be in the spirit of the highest standard of respect for human rights. Therefore, as we say, we will support this report with recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you. It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. Each of the debaters today will highlight those areas that seem particularly important to him, or he knows them better, or they are current. Interestingly, when considering the report in 2009, although it relates to the situation in 2008, we often deal with current topics that are happening today. That's not weird. Nevertheless, they may also be important to this report because they open up certain areas that we neglected years ago, perhaps we didn’t pay any attention to them, or we didn’t want to see them. One of these areas from the labour market and also in some way constitutional matter has been the topic that we have dealt with many times in recent months - the alienation of social security contributions. As I have already mentioned, this is not only about the issue of labour relations, but about the dilemmas that affect the rights of the individual. The salary is not made up of the net income that we receive from our personal account, but also from the gross contributions that go to the special funds or funds from which we draw rights. The constitutional dilemma, which we have also raised on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights, was that, or someone, such as a third party, the employer, in relation to the tax administration, to decide sovereignly whether to postpone contributions, to pay, when to pay them and so on, without consent, and without any knowledge of the directness of the affected, this is true of the worker. I am pleased that we have also spoken about this and have also added this point as part of the recommendations, which we have been following for the last six months. One such topic is religious care. There can, of course, be different debates and debates around religious care. I am pleased that the recommendation also mentions the smaller religious communities and the problems of religious care for them. Members of smaller religious communities do not have the same opportunities and rights and the rules of the game are not set, so I like that we have also opened this topic and will be current in the next period. One of the things that is also about all of us is health care, of course. I was surprised when I was looking for the waiting types on my search engine for nothing. Of course, citizens obviously do not specifically refer to the Ombudsman and that is why it is not in the report. That's the answer. As it turns out, the Slovenians are truly like the cranberry bee, a hardworking nation, a humble nation, even a humble nation, said a colleague before the recent, and endlessly patient. It would be interesting to calculate how many hours we spent in waiting rooms, it was not only the waiting types that Mr. Bogovic had warned about, for home care, etc., but in the day-to-day waiting in the infirmary, when you were scheduled for a certain hour and then it took two, three hours or even more to get to your turn. This is mainly a poor organization and an improper attitude towards patients. However, there have been good examples in recent times when doctors have been able to organize this area, and you may be waiting for 10, 15, 20 minutes. I am pleased that the report also raises the issue of concessions. We can read about the shortcomings in the award of concessions, rather than allowing the Ministry of Health to decide on the award of concessions on the basis of the needs of the public service network operators to publish a call for proposals, the Ministry of Health has continued to issue controversial concessions in the areas of individual applications, in particular interested operators. So they were primarily referring to those who showed interest in the so-called health lobby and less to the functioning of the network, which stems from the needs of patients. Many more things could be opened, and since time is limited and my colleagues must also get a word, I thank you for listening carefully and for the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respectable present. As I said last year, when we discussed the Ombudsman's 2007 report that the Ombudsman should be the guardian of human rights of all people, I repeat this year. Of course, in a way, I understand that the guardians point out the things that stand out the most and are in the eyes, especially those that the media like to report, which fill the loads of newspapers and blur the minds of citizens. The report is largely justified in some way by the importance of the institution. Of course, I would point out here once again that the guardian of the press is not going to expose that part of the story, which is interesting only for someone who wants to hear it, but to present the righteous story of truths and untruths to those who will be able to act and correct it. When you read the report, you get a horrifying sense of the injustices that occur to Roma, wiped out, criminals, police violence, law enforcement after prisons, injustice against foreigners, different kinds of beliefs, torture and inhumane conduct, spreading intolerance, and could even list them. When you read this, you can imagine whether the Ombudsman writes this about our Slovenia or whether it's a story from some country where violence and dictatorship are law. Of course, I didn't focus on everything in the report, because it's a big deal, but I only took the part where you talk about prisons in the section Restricting Personal Freedom. You've been critical of everything you've dealt with in prison, so that you get the feeling that these people who are on leave of their sentence are being treated by the charlatans themselves, the incompetent, the incompetent, the incompetent people, so much as not to say that people are being shut down in order to make excuses pay to these employees. I didn't see where you wrote that the efforts of people who work with delinquents in conditions like prison are something that destroys people mentally and physically. In the previous regime, these people had a bleached internship because the country recognized it - what do they have today? None of it, except for the guardian, who often sins their lives for unnecessary reasons. The institution shall have the prescribed laws under which it is implemented and the house order is prescribed, and it shall not be acceptable to anyone at any time. I talk to people who are in prison a lot of times, and I have to tell you to tell me stories that should be of interest to you, and you obviously don't get caught up in it. I will mention the case when the guard was at the entrance to one of the Slovenian prisons, he was stopped by the staff to talk to him and he didn't give them a chance. He said to turn to him in writing if they didn't like anything. This is just one example, but there are hundreds who are not interested in the guardian. It is unfair that the guardian deals only with criminals and the victims are forgotten by everyone - this is the part that would increase your report by another five hundred sheets. I'm not going to go after the points you set, but I'm going to try to explain in full that you're wrong about everything except the trifles. When the Age was built, the estimated capacity for 900 people was around 600, the same number as today, closed after other prisons, but always within the limits of the standards that applied at the time. What has the situation changed since then? Nothing, except that standards have changed that allow more commodities for closed persons, more democracy, in short, more rights, and thus anarchy that is not followed by any law anymore. The advantages were premature, and the state did not think of the consequences. The Ombudsman, however, adheres to the record, even though he knows that some things cannot be resolved overnight. All of this goes to the mill to lawyers who are happy to file complaints against the state and individuals who work through these institutions. Too liberal house order, which does not fill leisure time, is also one of the causes of violence among prisoners, the other is suicide and widespread discontent among law enforcement officers. Promoting a revolution in prisons encourages prisoners to become even more disobedient and willful. The complaint against 20 guardians at the Age helped to take advantage of the current situation in prison, caused by an under-thinking action by the administration and the UICS, and helped to make the impact of the guards fall below the level, thereby exacerbating the order and discipline of the longer term, which is difficult to correct. In this case, too, the Ombudsman did not take sides with officials who were later found to have been wrongly accused. There's a lot to talk about when you commit suicide. I'm sure that's what no one wants, at least the guards. Therefore, it is wrong to always blame those who are the least guilty. I haven't noticed anyone mentioning that the guards saved their lives during the flight, say, the 50th convicts who tried to save their own lives. No! No! We're looking for the culprit among the guards, why it happened, even though there are other causes. Most are the causes of family distress, divorce, very rarely due to bad conscience due to crime, much due to overdose, and in no case so far due to the staff who are to harass the convicts. It must be clear to all that the purpose of the punishment is to live in accordance with the rules applicable to all citizens after the end of the sentence. The enforcement of criminal sanctions and re-education was a fundamental purpose. The law, which is now in force, does not define the purpose of the prison sentence. However, the treatment to be carried out must only be by written consent of the convict. However, the principle of the removal of a criminal does not guarantee a reduction of crime. The penalty should act repressively and preventively by deterring offenders from re-criminal offences. This is another story known only by the Ombudsman. I would expect them to interfere for years with the enforcement of criminal sanctions, to propose a formula that will be acceptable both to the Ombudsman, the convicts and those who are trying to succeed the impossible - of course, according to the legislation in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Lady Guardian of Human Rights, House of Respect. Every year, the Ombudsman's annual report shows the dark side of our society. In front of them, you're the most responsible person in the country, that's every time you're in power, like to close your eyes. Members of the National Assembly are part of these powers. It is up to all three branches of government, executive, judicial and legislative authorities whether the Ombudsman's recommendations will be duly taken into account or, as has been the case with so many times, the recommendations will remain only on paper. It is the responsibility of the authorities to properly manage everything that makes many people in Slovenia needlessly suffer. We are also responsible for the people themselves, because we have been too trusting in the authorities, because we have allowed our country to be severely deprived of the labour, legal, social and health security of the population. Warning of human rights cannot, therefore, be left to the Ombudsman alone, even if he is doing his job well, which is why I support the Ombudsman's recommendations. The report also reports on the inadequate work of many officials and officials at state level and in congregations that avoid caring for those in distress, even though we pay them to take care of the weakest in society. Each time the executive power left a host of people to poverty, dignity, and mercy. The construction of sufficient social security mechanisms has not been taken care of. At least 240,000 poor people remain with us without sufficient social and most of them without adequate health care. There are many stories in the Ombudsman's report about people who have been pushed to the brink of society because they did not build adequate social networks because they did not build a sufficient system of legal, labour, social and health security because they did not know or wanted to protect people with appropriate laws. Because in many times our society has been affected by nepotism, clientism, corruption and other incompetences that reduce the efficiency of the economy and the country. Cases of non-action of the rule of law include non-compliance with different types of controls. This is what we face every day, even in the National Assembly. Thus, on Monday in front of the National Assembly cameras, it was understood from the Minister of Health's reply to the question that the Minister is not and will not act against doctors who violate laws that endanger human health and abuse public funds for private gain. The Minister has previously confirmed that such violations are taking place in practice, but on Monday we have learned that the Minister is not and will not act against those who illegally decommissioned health homes for the benefit of the private. A respected congregation is a suspension of the duty of a public servant or official. The failure of the rule of law allows corruption, reduces the effectiveness of health care and endangers human health. How many more Borov Nekrepov does this company need in order for the responsible ministry to be destroyed so that it no longer lands on the spillage of public funds into private pockets and the reduction of access to health services? We read that we are again preparing to reduce the rights of compulsory health insurance. Reducing access to health services is due to the privatisation and commercialisation of health care. This, the well-respected assembly, contributes to an even greater extent of human rights violations. A few 100 doctors and capital have recently written a law on health care in their image. Then the doctors forced another round of legal arrangements. The content of this law should not be discussed in this temple of democracy. That is how some members of the National Assembly felt when they voted against its contents in the National Assembly on Tuesday, even though it was clear from the reply of the Minister of Health to the question of the Member State that no analysis of the consequences of the law had been prepared, that the law had not been made on the basis of an adopted national strategy, that the bill had come about without the consent of the population. The way this law is drawn up, the well-respected assembly, is not in line with the guidelines of the World Health Organization. The responsibility of the members of the National Assembly to maintain and improve labour, legal, social and health security is high. Since the introduction of Article 82 of the Constitution, which states that Members should act independently of the instructions and for the benefit of the entire population, it depends on what human rights will be with us in the coming years. This, the well-respected congregation, is also in our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! With such an important topic for today’s situation, one hardly knows where to start and where to end, but of course, it is time that limits us both in time and in substance. But let me always be right to sweep the threshold first. What is actually going on in the field of human rights in this high assembly? It is likely that it would be appropriate to listen to any of the staff of the National Assembly who prepare materials and convene urgent or regular meetings of the working bodies or meetings of the National Assembly. Why I am starting with this content precisely - because it is right to call an urgent meeting of this Commission, which treats the content of this report as the parent working body. And it is also in this working body that human rights violations emanating from many documents have occurred, including from the working relationship. If anyone does, it should be the National Assembly who somehow sets an example of how work must be done so as not to harm or violate fundamental human rights and values. I am sure that if those who were given and charged with calling for an urgent meeting of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities on 20 November this year, they would say a number of things. This is probably not all that happens in our National Assembly when we talk about human rights violations. Labour relations, wages, annual leave, suffering in the workplace, these are all content, many others, of course, which fall within the contents of the Ombudsman's 14th report. If ever, it is at a time when Slovenia is more important that we also speak most seriously and responsibly about the violation and protection of human rights. If anyone does, it is the guardian who is the one who is most responsible today with his fellow workers and his fellow workers at this time and in this room to keep an eye on what is happening, to detect any phenomenon that has a detrimental effect on the violation of human rights and other freedoms. When we talk about violations of labour law, this is a topic that we could talk about for a long time. Just imagine how those 150,000 employees feel that the employer did not provide them with what they were supposed to do. And when someone who was convinced that he also had health insurance provided came to a doctor and found that he was not entitled to treatment through a medical chart or a card and that he wanted treatment, he had to pay for it himself. These are the stresses, these are the grasses of many people, because not all of them, 150 or how many thousands, have not been paid or provided, since not all of them needed medical attention. It's a big majority of them. And things are going so far that these people just can't get medical attention. The employer has not settled this obligation, a worker or a patient in need of medical care, has no money and what is left of it, does not leave, goes to the street, drinks some refreshments, most of the time alcohol, and of course the matter is getting worse and wider. Things aren't that simple, and I'm sure that's what the Institute, which we call the Ombudsman, perceives. The 2008 report shows something to be seen, but if it is all in the 2009 report, this report will be at least once more extensive than it is today. So brilliantly and so at an incredible rate, these numbers of human rights violations are spinning. I don't know if we're at some point in a vortex where we're just losing our orientation on how to get out of this crisis. Things aren't very simple, especially when we start to figure out the number of individuals in our country who have been in this whirlpool of human rights violations. In many areas, denationalisation is also the focus of the 2008 report. Here, too, the procedures are unfinished, even here inside are the shocking stories of our fellow citizens. It is a number of confessions from some families who live on the outskirts, as well as in cities, even in the centers. They have been in a position to have some space, their living space in which they have spent years and years, and when these judicial proceedings have been carried out for years and years, they are urged today to empty this apartment without anyone telling them where their replacement apartment is, without adequate services taking timely action and also asking those who are responsible - it is often the responsibility of those people in the first stage, i.e. in administrative units, 58 administrative units or how many of them we have in the Republic of Slovenia, and believe me that there is more than one case in every administrative unit in the Republic of Slovenia that records something similar. I come from the Ptuj administrative unit, where my family called for help today because they received a warrant to move out in the middle of the winter in January. Is it not a violation of fundamental human rights that goes beyond some material announcement of someone who has never seen or knew where a house or some land is in nature, but by accident or by chance it has been obtained without being fully verified, and now this family is being called upon to move out in the middle of winter? Speaking of constitutional rights. Some may also find such accounts to be funny, and I tell you, my colleagues on the other hand, at least listen to some confessions, if you find such a confession funny, laugh. But probably the one who laughs last laughs the sweetest. These are not funny things, these are things that require genuine and thoughtful compassion for those who are being undermined by these fundamental rights and freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia. Constitutional rights are also violated. Above all, we have recently observed that Slovenia is right in violating constitutional rights in a vortex that is approaching a strange story when we do not know whether we are standing in the field of the exercise of constitutional rights, whether certain things in this area should be changed or allowed to take them back to where they are going. Today, something has already been mentioned about whether Slovenian voters and voters deserve to be included in the pre-election period without anyone being involved, with some false accusations to prevent political parties from presenting themselves on the political scene, and someone who is right in the body most called to respect the story of lies abroad, in his annual report, when he discusses his area called corruption, does not in any way touch this content - in the case of Patria. It even goes so far as to make fun of the body that he is supposed to oversee in the National Assembly, but unfortunately this is far from understanding some simple words regarding the case of Patrio. But the Slovenians and Slovenians were misled by a lie just before the elections, as soon as possible, the matter - I think also in this area - has been concluded and we will all come to realize that this was a true lie. Is it right to act in the pre-election period also by manipulating our electorate and electorate, also one of the fundamental issues when we are talking about human rights. Unfortunately, I did not see that this was mentioned in the Ombudsman's report either, but it might be in the 2009 report. And something else about poverty. I recall from the previous term that many times in the National Assembly we spoke about poverty, we were also very critical. If ever, it is so much more important and necessary today that we deal with this area seriously and responsibly. What is actually going on with those who are responsible as an institution for protecting these human rights? Many times we expose social work centres, we have adopted legislation in the National Assembly, but in some cases it may be impossible for social work centres today: whether they have no staff or no resources, but the situation in their area is critical. All together, it is likely that sectoral legislation in these areas should be changed, but it seems to me that we are waiting for us to step on the ground, but we are not making the necessary steps in this area. I don't want to mention some specific cases that I believe that you meet with your respectable colleagues on your own, but when someone tells you that they don't have it, unfortunately it's a big number, but every day they have to buy four loaf of bread and it's a truly shocking story when they say that when they get this social assistance, that 14 days is still coming and then they're running out. I don't know if we've really come this far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u289	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u290	People don't have, I'll say, no bread. [[...]] I lived alone for a time when we really didn't have bread. Maybe after all this time we're back there again? When we talk about children, the guardian in the content of the report is also this area of separation. Of course, there are many inconsistencies in the protection of children’s rights. It seems to me that it will also be necessary to cut down thoroughly here into systemic solutions. There's the older ones here, too. I think that in one of the presentations of the parliamentary groups, much more of the content was devoted to addressing the elderly in our country. There's nothing that can help the deal in the coalition agreement if we find out on the other hand that there's no where and where to get the money so we can build these homes. Once again, we find ourselves in a situation where we find that unfortunately, so do children, we are exposing these weak categories somehow, where we find that they are most at risk with regard to human rights and fundamental freedoms. The disabled aren't exempt here either. Persons with disabilities are also a category that deserves special attention in addressing all institutions operating in this area. It is also more difficult for patients receiving some care, but these are details. Let me conclude by saying that action must be taken immediately and immediately. I believe that there are many areas where the Government must give priority to certain systemic solutions. I miss it. There's not enough of these systemic solutions for the current government. However, if anything, then some content of the law comes along, which is most often dealt with by means of so-called reduced procedures, where there is no time to get a possible bit more information from the concrete experience of those people who can help us greatly in the content of certain systemic solutions in the field of legislation. Make it as little a violation of human rights as possible. Let the guardian, with all her potentials at her disposal, take more care today than ever, including with individual representatives of the government, to make certain things a priority. This is a large number of people, many notable cases in Slovenian society, which are too many at the end of 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was going to discuss two subjects, but according to my predecessors, it might be right to say some thoughts that gave birth to me. Of course, thanks to the Ombudsman for this report and all of her fellow workers are first. I must say that we, Members of Parliament, who know our mission very well, our responsibilities and responsibilities, do not think as others do, that this report serves us in the debate, especially with representatives of the Government, further in our work, especially when we are talking about preparing for the modernisation of the public sector or not lastly, even when we are talking about health care and health insurance. What you also wrote in the introduction in general, I must say that, after all, it is also the starting point of what some are discussing when we are talking about the Health Act. The broad debate is ongoing, and today we have also heard or read from the newspaper that the reform of the health system is a responsible matter and content, and that is why so many more efforts are made by the Ministry of Health’s professional service, as well as by all the professional professions and the public, that before the procedure takes place and before Members can have the opportunity to discuss and for the first time, we will also touch on material on a proposal for a law that is likely to arise after the new year, so that we will have the opportunity to discuss the content that will be agreed on by both the professional public and the interested. Above all, we believe the Social Democrats, our starting points are enshrined in our programme, and I must say that we also recognize ourselves in the values enshrined in this law, because the Health Act is based on the values of health care, such as ensuring the quality of public health care, universality, solidarity, humanity, fair access, which is ultimately also dependent on the needs of the individual and economic sustainability that this law must represent. The basic guiding principle of the law, as stated, is that health services that are important to human health cannot be and must not be marketable goods. And with the right to health services, human constitutional rights to social security are also exercised, and this must be guaranteed to everyone, irrespective of personal circumstances, such as material conditions. That is why we will be able to make little less work in the following year when the 2009 report explicitly insists on the separation of the public and private health system, that there will be no spillage from one pocket to another, and that all authorities, or not least professional organisations, will carry out their work and that we will strengthen the public health system based on the public primary health network or health homes. Perhaps only so much that some believe in a broad debate, a professional debate and that we can engage politicians when the matter is so mature that it reaches us. It would be very wrong for politicians to first express their will, their aspirations without the professional public talking about it. That's why I might have to talk a little bit in the future, not so much in the past. But, as I say, the report that has been ahead of us for so long is also the basis for us to resolve and pay attention to the things that have been going on in the past, and we can say that they are also shrinking. Let me briefly mention another matter which has also stabbed me or also concerns the drafting of another system law prepared by the Ministry of Culture. It is a new law or a supplement to the law on Radio Television of Slovenia. We have also heard in one of the introductory debates how aggressive it has been for Mr Možino, the director of television, and especially for the director of the Programme Council, Mr Grando, and we may have forgotten the special warning of the Ombudsman's human rights and actions, for which, last but not least, they are both responsible when they took away the most beautiful part in the programme scheme, which could be said to be the maintenance of family customs or, last but not least, the preservation or example of the upbringing of our children and which has already been, I will not say a thousand years, but it has been rooted - I am talking about a time block when the cartoon was always before our television diary. This was done after a grave violation and the will of the Programme Council, the decision to replace it with a telenovela programme in this bloc or timetable. To the great pressure of the public, I will say to the public, to the families, or not least to the children, who influenced the fact that the two responsible finally gave in and again at the side of the programming scheme were re-prepared or drawn up drawings and that the telenovelas, which were at the expense of the funds that we could also read about in other reports, were drawn from purely other items. Of course, I would just like to point out how to think in the future about what role the Ombudsman of Human Rights should also play on television, which is part of, last but not least, the scheme or apparatus of our Radio Television of Slovenia, which our party has already pointed out in the adoption of the previous Radio Television Act and which has proven to be impossible and unsustainable to experience and practice so far. For this reason, it is only possible to review the direction or extract from the fact that such a chapter on the Ombudsman of TV rights could also be reviewed and a different decision could be drawn up, or a proposal emanating from this report by the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected guardian with co-workers, a representative of the government. We have already given a positive assessment of the report in the opinion of the Group, and I agree with one of my predecessors when he said that this report and the annual reports are a kind of mirror where we need to look at the officials we are responsible for carrying out some of the tasks, and some, particularly the state and local institutions, which must be responsible for creating such an environment where human rights will not be violated. And if I start with ourselves. The Ombudsman draws attention to too quickly and too little, too little, with due thought and too little respect for the professional and other public when adopting legislation. Only if we take a look at this time at the National Assembly. I used to count quickly: consider, if I counted correctly, 12 laws by regular procedure and 15 by short and urgent procedure. I think it's about that kind of picture all the time, but I'm not gonna say it's just in this term. In general, I would say that because we are often "betting" with this mandate and the previous term, and the next one will be, and so on - this matter is roughly repeated, mistakes are repeated, all these problems are repeated and it is difficult to talk about 2008 which is the report, or for this mandate. I am sure that the next report, which is very important, will unfortunately not be better. But we also always stress that there are certainly too many laws being dealt with quickly, following a reduced procedure. I would point out another problem: that we organise public debates on individual laws, but the practice of the last few such debates is such that, regardless of the debate that was professional, where the representatives of the profession were present, the Government adopted a document very quickly, in one case even the next day, in another month's time, with substantial disregard for the comments made in this public debate, some law as a proposal and forwarded it to the National Assembly. That's how I see the big problem here. Secondly, if I go to a few chapters - I chose a few chapters, a few things. For example, in the field of the Law on Mental Health, further to the Law on Health Care and Insurance. Here are some problems where even individual articles are substantively excluded from each other, and this has taken a long time for the relevant Ministry to make appropriate changes. Above all, the Ombudsman points to non-admission, non-preparation of sub-laws. I also think that this is an old problem faced by the Government and the National Assembly, especially with regard to illegal acts, is the Government. Slovenia has ratified the Convention on Persons with Disabilities. The Convention commits Slovenia to applying the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment and to preventing discrimination experienced by persons with disabilities in various areas of life. Eight-year history also has an unfulfilled request from the National Assembly to update the list of physical defects, which is the Ombudsman, interesting, recommendations already in 2001, the National Assembly then to the Government, and it is still being used - according to the information I have - the old, updated program, the list. Thus, the Ombudsman also recommends the early legal arrangements, the issues of the recovery of material war damage suffered by exiles, material victims in war and prisoners and forcibly mobilized into the German army during World War II. So, even this issue is still "standing", it was already the current previous amendment, but unfortunately we have not yet settled anything in this area. With regard to working relationships, the Ombudsman draws attention to the need to strengthen the functioning of the Labour Inspectorate and the inspections for the public service system and to take appropriate measures to prevent and torture in the workplace. It notes that the provisions of the Labour Relations Act are too loose and leave open questions both on how to identify suffering and on how to effectively reduce it. With regard to pension and disability insurance, we detect new systemic deficiencies each year and find that those to whom the Ombudsman has been alerting for several years in a row remain disorderly. So I hope that with the proposal of the new pension law we will also try to resolve these problems. The list of proposals and recommendations is also a debt in the area of social protection. This area needs a thorough ventilation of the work so far, perhaps even the reorganisation of the ministry. Not only do adverse economic changes bind them to such reflection, but also a long-standing delay in the resolution of urgent measures. It also refers to the rationalisation of the tasks of social work centres, the provision of sufficient financial resources and the immediate completion of the staffing deficit. For many years, social work centres have been tasked with new and new tasks, new burdens under unaltered staffing and material conditions. We are also pursuing the transfer of more appropriate solutions to the future in the area of home for the elderly and the social welfare institutions, where unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court remain. To that extent, it seemed necessary for me to call. The rest will be the other colleagues. For the end, I would say in particular, as I said in the introduction, I welcome this report. I think we need to take it into our hands several times and try to address the shortcomings and problems in the light of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u295	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we have come into a situation where we can discuss the content and recommendations of the Ombudsman and that there are too many games and questions on the petition committee that have been making our debate difficult for two months. Second. I am pleased that, in recent debates or perhaps in all but a few firsts, we are discussing the issue of the realization of human rights, because at the outset I had a feeling that this is a debate on the Ombudsman and her Office, not a violation of human rights in our country. We have overcome this with recent discussions, and I think it is the same. Surely the worst are those violations that diminish human existence, economic or dignity. Unfortunately, this is also in difficult situations where we are too much, and so far we have no way out of this to be significantly reduced. Otherwise, it must be said that any violation for an individual is the most serious; the one in which he finds himself is the worst for him, especially if he does not find a way out of this problem. So I'm going to say a few sentences about a question that's not the most important, and I think it's important that the nanny opens it. This is a question, not for the first time, that is the question of hate speech, the position of individuals in the public sphere, the unproven accusations of individuals, the easy treatment and evaluation of people and their conduct. I am talking about this because we are also in the National Assembly - after all today we had two such agenda items - ready to talk to each other in this way, or worse, to talk about someone who is not here in this way. This seems to me to be an important violation of human rights, surely Article 14, which speaks of the same human rights and fundamental freedoms that are guaranteed to everyone, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other belief - that I do not list any further - and also the question of Article 27 of the Constitution which speaks of the presumption of innocence. However, I stress this question because I personally believe that it has such behaviour in the public, in the National Assembly and similarly very negative and multiplier effects. That when we are watched, without any sanctions, society becomes divided in many ways without need - even on issues on which we can look for common points - and that people are also becoming hostile to each other in many ways, even unjustifiable. We simply do not want to admit that it is possible to have a different view and a different assessment of certain actions, that it is entirely fair to put this under question, but not to accuse or compare people with criminals in the last few days. These are gross accusations, perhaps even those he makes should consider, despite the fact that he may have legitimate reasons for making a wrong decision. Two more things for a while. I am pleased that my parliamentary group and coalition have helped us manage three things: widows after military insurers - and I will be very grateful if you will no longer speak from the SDS that it was a privilege or that it was the wives of JLA officers who attacked our country, which you often like to do, because these are also grave lies and insults to these ladies who were 70 years old and over, and would be their late husbands today also many years old and cannot be compared with the people who committed aggression against Slovenia. And second is the Law on Victims of War Violence and the War Cemetery Act, which provides some basis for aligning decisions with the views of the Constitutional Court and some grounds for fair settlement of graves. Therefore, all criticisms that this government coalition in the field of detection, marking, decent regulation of any opposition, concealment and similar to graves and postwar crimes are simply unrealistic. Unreal, false, without evidence and cause only mutual conflicts completely without necessity. And the last question, and this was the reason that I smiled when Mr Marinic said how we feel about some problems of housing rights holders in the area of denationalisation today, and I am adding to the household apartments that are being dealt with. But I smiled because I have been personally talking about this for 15 years and I have not been in my client so far, nor even in the coalition, whatever it was, and even less in the opposition and in your client ever heard that this is a serious problem - and for that individual, it is probably - and I will be very happy if, on the basis of the recommendations, we finally succeed in a few ten such cases, which are personally tragic, by the end of the day, we will be able to resolve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u298	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. President. Hello, everyone here. Unlike some of my colleagues who have been looking at this beautiful book very closely, I will say that the reading hours of this book, which actually means the fourteen years of an institution that has actually acquired tradition for many years, and I can see that from year to year this book has become more and more systematic, more transparent and more coherent. It is so telling that, say, Members who are present and who are very keen to listen, we also review, give a lot of guidance and guidance on how and how we work, whether the initiatives we receive in the offices of the Members are initiatives that respond to the Ombudsman's report or not. How important it is for the Ombudsman's report to say that even the Government, as soon as the report was issued - say, on page one hundred and ninety - when it was found that the inspection for the public servants' system was carried out by only one inspector, immediately responded and hired another inspector, because in fact this is very little for Slovenia. Of course, these instructions and instructions are convenient, and I hope that they will be useful not only for us Members, but will also be useful for State secretaries and ministers and all the others who work in ministries, because they have somehow mirrored everything that is done well and what is not. I have simply found that in the previous period, there was a long time ago in 2007 and 2009, when the pay system was quickly and hastyly adopted and when some wanted to turn before the elections and translate into payment classes - despite many warnings - many mistakes and injustices have been made. Since these injustices are actually wrongs to individuals, injustices to all those employed little people, I think it's good to keep this in mind. Even the Minister of Culture warned and said that such injustices had been done very much on RTV; I can say that even in small cultural institutions, in some schools, even in pension homes, and not least in some ministries. As this competence is exclusive and only ministries, I appeal to ministers and State secretaries to review, to undertake these analyses thoroughly and to see where the errors have been made. Some are systemic and systematic and repeatable, but some are actually personal and relate to an individual and have actually been done almost intentionally. How and how to protect an individual is the question, because in the system - we know how to decide, we know who is the decision-makers, and that only one decision is made, that complaints are actually those that are or are not taken into account, even if they are taken into account, the deadline for implementation in relation to the administrative procedure is very long and painful, the proof also lasts three years, the injustices - endless, and the prices paid by individuals and families are huge. For a month of 300, 200 euros, times 12 months, and that's a very big deal. These are great injustices, and I think it's good to look at it and see it. Last but not least, it's working relationships that we all feel. The mood in the collective, the mood in the team in which we work is very important. We're also talking about the suffering, the mobbing, and I don't know what it's all about. I think it is good to note that the protection of the person in the workplace is also important. As much as it is secured through legislation, the question - or we can find that it is not sufficiently or very weak. That would be a good thing to do and do in this area. The faults arising from the payment system and the transformations are great. Trade unions have been warned, ministers have been warned, and I hope that this is one of my warnings, which will count for something. Thank you so much for listening to me, colleagues and colleagues, especially my SNS co-workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Thank you for me, too. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President, for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u301	May I have your attention in the hall, please, at the back of the bench!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u302	friendly greetings to all present, to those who are not at work in Parliament. [[...]] I must say, I welcome this report from the guardian. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u303	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u304	I must say that I welcome this report, and the guardian and co-workers have prepared it carefully. To understand the problem, I must say that some see the problem in the thickness of the report, but certainly not in the thickness of the report, in our everyday conduct is the essence of this story. I must say, as a Member, I have put through quite a few such reports, but I am most pleased that this bench before me, in which ministers, ministers, secretaries of state, are sitting, has never been so full in these six years and has never been so full. I think that's a good sign. These are the people who can bring all these things together and take into account, in law and because I am thinking positively, I am sure that they are here to do so, and this is already happening in practice. Let us look at some of the stories that are most upsetting in this country: the problems of the deleted are being resolved, the courts are being reorganized and are paying particular attention to the lengthy procedures, the delays, the high costs. This is a concrete contribution. There is also a system within the police, which, of course, does not normalise, but provides security first. I think that these are the important things that need to be taken into account in everyday life, because otherwise these books will be thicker every year, and there will be no results. I must say that I am particularly happy and proud of the things brought by this message entitled "Television Diary in Sign Language for the Deaf and Deaf". The discrimination of certain parts of Slovenia and Slovenians has been highlighted by numerous reports by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman. Today this is no longer the case, words have become actions and on the third program, those who have such problems and have 100% disability can get quality information every day; and this is a great advance in this story. Just talking and the reports will be too little. I must say that when I hear the word justice, then you are as an individual, as a mayor or as an MP along with another word: duty. For example, politicalally, someone predicted that they would probably be in line with the laws in force in this country - and it is right that they would lose their housing rights. That's easy to say, but maybe this person has been paying bills for years and years, even though he has a solid income, he doesn't pay the bills, he doesn't pay the heat. He thinks municipal housing should be free of charge. And in practice, I have people who have 200, 300 Euros of lower income per month, and they pay everything, and some who are aware of only rights and duties, in these cases they do not. And that is why it is always important that justice and duty walk in parallel, hand in hand, and certainly the solutions will be better. We as the legislator and those who are doing this in practice - it is our job, above all, to act in such a way that, as a responsible policy, not everyone likes every moment, but to act as we think it is legal, fair and right. Once again, all recognition to the extensive, hard work. I'd also like to welcome practice. The guardian and her assistants don't just work in the office, they don't write reports. They come to the field in many of which congregations and there all day, from morning to evening, meet people with problems. None of those may have ever and never had this opportunity to present a concrete problem at such a level. I must say that at that time, we were also alerted and charged to do so for the elimination of any of these injustices. Here is another great added value of the guardian’s work, or guardian’s, to deal with specific problems. There are many topics written in the report - we have also talked about. I am pleased that we have also addressed environmental issues. The environmental issues are also addressed by this report. And that's where we need to be aware that we're walking on thin ice. There is something about the right to information, and there is, of course, another right, which we are pleased to see in this country, that civil initiatives are becoming law or even more, civil initiatives are taking a stand over the law, and I think that there is no way and there is never going to be, because otherwise we will be stopped by a number of key projects in the field of environmental protection and elsewhere, because today in this country, unfortunately, even before the holidays, we are thinking more negatively than positive, of course, there is no way in this country that no one is opposed to them. Two of them meet at a glass, say they've set up a civil initiative, and millions of projects fall into the water. Since the debate today was also a little political, it is also right that the ball should return to the other side of the table. Some have been warming up stories, such as about Patricia. It is certainly the right and, on the other hand, the duty of the relevant authorities to investigate the story, as well as the right of citizens and citizens to know where millions and millions of euros of their money went. Just as they have the right to know who paid the freebies and have the right to know where millions and millions of euros went during the self-sustainment period since the arms trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u305	Thank you very much. My word is Miran Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Guardian. The 350-page report, unfortunately there are only 3-4 pages on disability, a little bit about eliminating discrimination based on disability and even less, just a little bit on disability insurance, where there are fairly obvious injustices and irregularities. What can I say?Oh, my God! I'm a little disappointed. I will not go into detail, as the joint time of the Group of Members does not allow me to do so. However, because in the Slovenian National Party I am somehow obliged to deal with the problem of disabled people and on this occasion I would like to introduce you, the Ombudsman, colleagues and colleagues and the general Slovenian public with a specific problem within this sensitive area. In doing so, I agree with my colleague Anderlič's suggestion that it is also right to inform you of specific pressing problems and not to merely superficially assess the report as a good or a bad thing, that we are politically defining it, that here we are "understanding" not all because unfortunately we have no points, we have no meetings on this subject, which I think is bad, that it should be invoked once. All Members are aware of the emergency of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia and it would be useful for you to become acquainted with it, and please allow me to present to you and the Slovenian public one other side when we are talking about the most vulnerable group of people, this is about the disabled, and the problems they are experiencing, especially the problem of financing. As you are confidently aware, Mrs Elena Pečarič, under the formal auspices of the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, has delivered to all Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a rather shamelessly offensive filipika, which can be referred to as a perfidious construct of human wickedness. The main purpose of that letter is to completely discredit the representative and other disability organisations, to abolish the public foundation, this is the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, and to transfer these dedicated public funds to an integrated state budget. This is also the case with its servile reporting to serve as a backstage policy that is supposed to end the autonomous public funding of disability, humanitarian and sport organisations and in some way remove their representative representatives in the co-decision process on the annual allocation of these funds, which are never able to meet all the stated needs, which we know, because they are always somehow limited. With the aim of the above-mentioned Krečarič, it will act in a destructive manner, in the detriment of the regulated and effective public funding of the specific social programmes carried out by the disabled organisations, so as not to place at the same time the unnecessary public activities of humanitarian and sport organisations at risk. In the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, they are aware that Pecaričeva is diverting attention from the large substantive charge brought by the seemingly modest amendment in the text of Article 3a of the Law on Gambling. This article authorises, in addition to the two organizers of classical gambling, the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery, also the gambling casinos for which concessions are awarded by the competent state authority. From the practical experience of those European countries, such as Finland, where online gambling is already highly established on the market, it is clear that these games essentially interfere with the part of the gambling market covered by the organisers of classical gambling. This means that Slovenian classical gambling organisers will be able to withstand significantly fewer concession fees for good purposes, which are directed to the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations. These are problems that will prove to be very pressing in the future. While it is promised that these issues will be addressed by the development strategy of classical gambling, I strongly doubt this, because if this were true, the representatives of the countries would not have so unreasonablely rejected the reasonable amendment to the relevant article 3a, which was transmitted in the same text by the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the National Council of the Disability Organisation of Slovenia, they are completely distancing themselves from such billing, which Mrs. Pečaričeva has done on the Internet with well-known Slovenian policies, which has so far been freely processed by Karl Erjavac, Mr. Rupl, Janez Janša, Mr. Gregor Golobic, Mr. Pahor, Mr. Jožef Školč, and not to mention further. In this regard, they also point to the registered political party, the Equal Opportunities Party of Slovenia, set up and led by Elena Pecarič, and on the same websites begins destructive activities towards parliamentary political parties. According to our assessment with the same samples used to discredit representative disability organisations. So, let me finish. A credible humanist outcome from this situation is that the Republic of Slovenia consistently implements the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by it in April 2008 and is thus, in its position, a binding document in some way, and that Mrs Pecaričev and her organisation, the Association for the Theory and Culture of the Handicap, is in some way granting an eliminated social role, appropriate to their programming design and the minor number of persons with disabilities who are self-appointed to the disabled. Madam Ombudsman, with this particular notification, I wanted to remind you of something that there is such a problem within one of these very vulnerable groups of people that needs to be addressed at all levels. I think that this was an opportunity for me to introduce you, if you have not been aware of this, we have been Members aware of this, but unfortunately there has been no meeting convened on this subject, no point placed anywhere, and I think that in a humanitarian sense it is really our duty to clarify these matters so that they will take place in a manner that is decent in the civilized world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guardian, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Procrastination of the report is also a type of violation of human rights. Those who point to human rights violations, of course, want their complaints to be dealt with in a serious and appropriate manner. These complaints, either after the hearing or during the hearing, are summarized by the Ombudsman, and the report and the report we have are prepared in good quality, including the recommendations that form part of this report. Therefore, it is also impossible to land or it was impossible to agree to the wishes of some to select these recommendations from the Ombudsman, depending on whether individuals or groups like them or not. Are they among the Roma, among those who have been erased, among those who are somehow not an integral part of the thinking of those who wanted this included in the recommendations? Therefore, the consideration of this report in the National Assembly also contributes to respect for human rights. And as part of the debate today, I have also heard some comments, a description of some of the problems people are facing and are going to attach to them. The tenants, or tenants, were mentioned in denationalized apartments, or denationalizing excusers, who, after their return in nature, wanted to be evicted and thrown out of their homes. But what is somehow a mockery is that the predecessors of these parties in this Parliament of a long time ago, and certainly after their independence, passed the Denationalisation Act; the law that caused these new injustices; the law that was not good, according to our client's assessment. And today we face these consequences, and today they remind you of the same consequences. So before that, there was a smile here on this page when the warning was that we should seriously monitor the problems. Of course, we are aware of these problems and we are seriously following them, and we know that people have problems in several areas, not just in that. I also agree with the warnings that some matters are not covered in this report because there are no complaints. Of course it makes sense. The Ombudsman with his fellow workers is certainly not engaged in or recorded in the report if there are no such complaints. So these problems aren't detected, and we know there are these problems in society. Let me warn you about one of these. It's pedophile. So just because she didn't warn you doesn't mean she didn't. This is and it is right to talk about it, even if it is not in the report, because it is necessary to talk about it, to encourage those who are doing this to them, or those who know that they are doing it and actually prevent it. There was also talk about websites. There is a lot of verbal violence on these websites, there is a lot of hate speech, and it has to be condemned and regulated legally, regardless of where it comes from and where the hate speech is directed. No exceptions. We're not dividing ourselves into the right and left here, not the middle. Still, it is against whom this hate speech is directed. Especially sensitive are those who belong to and need to be taken care of by marginal groups. If we upgrade this hate speech with an invitation to the street, then we come into a story that has no happy ending, no matter who calls for it and whether this person is aware of his or her responsibilities. The municipal registrarship is mentioned in one paragraph. In fact, with special powers under the law, the municipal government came to life a long time ago, but at that time we warned that there would be problems. In the next report, some of these problems will be mentioned because people will complain because we gave the editors certain powers that the police had previously had. In adopting the law on red tape, I cautioned that there would also be problems with locking in on those who thought they needed to be. Finally, I had already said that, after a certain period of time, this measure would cease and it was necessary to unlock the one that was under that measure. Do you know what that means? So that we can end any change that has been made by the guards, we can pick up these linemen who will be chained up all over the city. Those who were chained to prevent their further aggression would, of course, not say good-bye after this measure has ceased and there will be problems. They will certainly, and you will see in the following reports, that we will face these things. The talk was about a mobile phone and this mobile phone is also mentioned in this report. Of course, it is necessary to prevent mobbing people in the workplace. But mobile isn't what was mentioned today that someone doesn't do what they're paid to do. And then the chairman asks or the Vice-President asks that this thing be done, and people rely on the mobile phone not to do it, because it's a mobbing over them. It's not a mobbing if they have to do what they're paid for. As it is necessary to stress here once again when we have the secretaries of bodies, committees, committees, not the secretaries of the presidents of these working bodies, but the secretaries of the working bodies who have the tasks and duties described and who must carry them out whether they are in the office of the President or the Vice-President of this working body. That's all. The report covers and also draws attention to nutrition, the obligation to serve detained persons. Of course, it is correctly written that some who, a few days earlier, are, say, refugees across the border or whatever we call them when they are brought in and detained, whatever term we use, should be provided with food and whatever needs go with it. But here are also mentioned guilty drivers who are detained. That's probably the right term. All right, but these reserved drivers probably don't go out of the party thirsty and hungry and probably don't have to take care of them first, but mostly the sobering up because they're being held. All we need now is to say they're taking them to dinner before they're held. So briefly about some of the problems covered in this report, which as a whole is very good and goes on to support it, but, of course, the recommendations that form an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr President, I believe that you are very well and closely following the meeting in the lead and that you have also found that we have now discussed everything, from weapons, from the work of the expert members of the committee and everything, so I will leave too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u311	After all, the general debate is on the report of MEPs and Members, Mr Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u312	Just because you have a habit of breaking up, I just said it in advance. Let's go to the dark. My theme, Madam Guardian, will be to limit freedom of movement, justice, police, internal affairs, as well as in the previous report. Of course, I must say that in individual parts I will be critical, and in individual parts I am very grateful for your work. In your section on restricting freedom of movement, you talk a lot about overcrowding in prisons and these matters, which, of course, is true. You are also talking about the measures taken by the former government in this area, in particular, alternative criminal sanctions. That's all right, and that's true. But if we remain - and this is also my wish, a recommendation for your next report - as regards the alternative suspension of criminal sanctions, it must be said that this year's situation is such if the two ministers cannot agree on how to proceed with the means, it is simply not. Since the Minister of Justice is not prepared by the Ministry of Labour to derogate from the resources that would allow this alternative enforcement of criminal sanctions, the law is not implemented. Since one minister is not willing to resign, so in this case, the Justice Minister of the Ministry of Labour, I believe that the Minister of Labour needs these resources in order to do so, the law stands and the law is not implemented. And that's not good. Of course, you are also talking about the mistreatment of guards and the measures taken. I absolutely agree with you, with all the things you write in the report. All such behaviour must be prevented. I'm a little less in favour of your allegations when you're talking about the medical care of detainees. That's the way it is. If contract doctors are provided, I think it is also okay that they are not necessarily permanent doctors who would be in prison. People in some remote places, including places where I live, have to drive 15 kilometers to see a doctor, and everything is fine. The doctor's not on the pressure button and he'd be at our house. So it seems to me that even those contractual ones, in my opinion, will be enough if there are no permanent ones. I think it's rather formalistic where you're talking about a detainee being brought to court by guards. Of course it's true, a coerced apprehension is a coercion. And a coerced apprehension by the police, that's clear. But only when someone doesn't respond. But that's an invitation and an immediate warrant to bring him to court. I personally don't see any particular problem in this for the main reason, because it's a detained person and she's already done something. We probably can't send her an invitation and then bring her in later. The Mental Health Act, I fully agree with you, everything you're writing on this subject is inconceivable. It is true, however, that it might be possible to point out in these claims, where there are cases of detention, treatment in psychiatric institutions, not only the legal aspect of all these procedures, which are there, probably also a medical aspect. I think you're putting too much emphasis on the legal aspect and too little emphasis on the medical aspect. These people can also be dangerous, for we know that. I agree, too, with the religious rituals at the Centre for Foreigners, this so-called quiet room built in the previous term or in the previous term. You're hailing the matter. I agree with you myself. How I agree with what you're writing on page 77, proposal two. And we're not aware of that in our country. There you say, the point is to prevent crime and not investigate crime. I just have to congratulate you on this. Because it's true. In our country, we're always doing what the police have done to investigate it, to investigate it. No, no, no. Things are different in the world. In particular Denmark, Scandinavian countries, etc., where they ask what the police have done or what the ministers have done, each from their own field of work, to prevent crime, not to investigate. So absolutely all my support for this work. But I don't think it's very good, you know, that an administrative error is what the report deals with, which is done by a prison worker when he miswrites the date on the travel pass and then the guards take this person on the wrong day to the doctor when the doctor doesn't work. I believe that something has happened to all of us, and something has written down that we were wrong. I don't think that's such a tragedy, because some person got all the care immediately after that or was in some normal time. Justice. What can I say? I hope and wish that all that you are writing about justice would be read by the Coalition Members and by the Minister of Justice or by the Secretary of State. That would be great, and that would be wonderful. Why? Look at 23% of the cases, and these cases are getting bigger year after year, it's on your desk in the field of justice. And you are in many parts, at least as a prisoner with your hands locked on your back, because justice is called an independent branch of power and you have no opportunity to act. All you can do is point out some things. Yeah, that's right, that's how we have the system built. But this government is sorry at every turn, and I can count a few cases, and I don't think it's necessary, because all Members know when they've pressed "for" and when they're "against" they're just turning into cotton. Every step of the way. Lawyers, which I'll talk about next, notaries, judges, etc. And then you don't get any answers. You ask the minister, and you say, Minister, what about the extra work of the judges, I asked myself last week - and you find out that the minister doesn't have the data. And he doesn't have them, because he can't have them, because the judiciary is an independent branch of power, gentlemen as it is. The Minister of Public Administration knows exactly how the additional work in the state administration is: no one can be paid twice. Whether he's got overtime or free time or whatever he's got. And it's what it is. As it is in the judiciary, the presidents of the courts know. But we won't get that information, nor will the Minister. Neither does the minister! Congratulations, again. Page eighty-eight, see what was written for you: "The independence of the judge refers only to the trial, that is to the performance of the judicial function." Can I read it again? "The independence of the judge relates only to the trial, i.e. to the performance of the judicial function." And nothing else. I deeply agree with you! However, in my view, the coalition MPs and the Minister of Justice prove at every step that the judiciary is independent of everything else. Whether he sits in a courtroom and judges or buys a salad on the market. It's independent, too, they say. But that's not true. And I agree with what you wrote down. And once this knowledge penetrates this society, the judicial branch of power will gain the reputation and go in the direction of the function it has in this country. But I'm really happy about what you wrote down, because I'm trying to prove it with a lot of sentences behind this microphone when I said they're independent of the trial, not all the other cases. But the Justice Minister claims, and the Constitutional Court also that they are independent of wages. You too say, look how shyly you wrote that several of your interventions gave birth to official judicial oversight. That's a pretty shy sentence. I think that every intervention you make should be like an impulse to the minister to "jump into the luft." If we are not already accepted by the opposition Members, I should at least accept you. The "louft should jump" when you point out a mistake. And there's immediate surveillance. No, he's dealing with other controls, he's dealing with the D.A.'s. Let me give you a single case, and I will refer this person to you on Monday. Look what happens. A man has 12 years of pending cases in court. But it's some kind of claim or something. I mean, it's for banal amounts, but in the 18's, it's gotten pretty big. He's coming to our office to do what he has to do. And after I look at those cases, I can't answer him as if he were going to the president of the court. It's a clear matter. We can't do anything else. And what happens to this man? A man goes to the judge's office in an official hour, and he's already rejected by the doorman. He goes to the office next time, he comes to the secretary. The judge upstairs has "that bull," you know, she's not going, she's the only one who can open the door from the inside, because the lady is independent or whatever. Finally, after all the requests made by this person to contact the President of the Court, after all the requests have been made, the Security Service will come for him and he will not be entitled to speak to the President of the Court. But the point is, the court claims that it doesn't have a document because it lost it when they moved. That's what this is about. And the final phase. Since he can't do it yet, the police come for him and take him out of court. I'll send him to you. I can't believe what's going on. Judicial backlogs. I fully agree with you. But this government, and I believe you will be monitoring this, prolonging it with many measures, such as the Offences Act that we have already adopted, and we are returning to trial again. Look, what a fine example you're giving, I have to say again, I'm sorry, because it's only in this report, and then nothing happens again. A lawyer accepts a client and will represent her in some kind of compensation. The parties say he'll get 2.3,000 euros there. What's going on? The court will award him 46 euros. Its costs are €980. Why did I say that? Because his lawyer dragged him over the water at the start of the thirst, if you call it that, and he promised him a lot, and he didn't do anything. If the court ruled 46 euros, then you know it was a banal matter, I believe it was a banal matter. But he paid 980 euros to get 46. Decisions on page 90, 91, when you speak of certain decisions of the courts where no action was brought by the lawyer. One person makes a complaint or something, I think we're talking about a complaint. The court says you have a legal exam. Everyone will say no. Yeah, how come you don't? Then we won't count it. You get a lawyer. Please! If it's a legal problem, Mr Secretary of State, you can arrange it, or it's the judge's own safety. I don't know what it is. Now it's my fault. I don't know what it is, and now I don't know how to tell you what I want to tell you. If this is the 2008 report and if you're also talking about lawyering, if you're talking about amending the law that was passed in March this year, then I don't agree with you because I don't know what you're talking about in here. I mean, what's this all about? I think you're talking about this year's marriage. First of all, you say the Law of Lawyers has been amended, but the government is just changing it again, kind of. I think you're talking about this year's law, which doesn't belong in the 2008 report, so I'm going to say something in spite of sharp criticism. I would like to see in the next report a comparison between Sturm's law, if I may, in pronunciations, say, and Zalar's amendment to the law on lawyering, which you know is that the Constitutional Court has said that it cannot have a referendum. In doing so, copies of the pasta, with press errors, have led Minister Zalar's explanation into a constitutional decision. And I'll tell you something else. When Minister Zalar spoke about these matters, he said that the Law on Lawyers was fully in line with the Ombudsman to support it. I was thinking, but I didn't say, now I don't know if he took a bucket of water thirsty or if you haven't read it. There was something. What's this all about? In the case of lawyers, the Minister of Sturm has drawn up a disciplinary commission in such a way that lawyers had no majority at any stage, not at the first, nor at the second stage. Minister Zalar fixed it. He corrected the way that lawyers today and at the first stage and at the second stage have an absolute majority in decision-making in disciplinary proceedings. You said you supported it. That's what he said here. You have magnetograms and you can look at it. I also have a feeling in here that you support it. Or you wrote this report at a time when it was not clear what the final solution would be. Next. For example, you strongly support the fact that there will now be representation by official duty and another matter, which has also been the subject of this law, so that it will be better now. And you support, that's how I understand, or you'll say I'm wrong. You're backing this by lawyers just setting legal tariffs again. I've never supported that. That's how I understood the text. That's right, because I'd be very happy if you answered. Anyway, I disagree with that part of your report, disagree with it, and criticize it. But I expect, please, I wish you would, because you are independent, that in the next report, however, we would have a very clear answer to the question of what happened to this law at the time of Minister Sturm and what happened during the time of Minister Zalar. Because what happened, I think, is catastrophic. And in my opinion, you should give your vote on this subject, it seems to me that this is not clear enough in here. Look, you guys keep talking, on page 103, I'm gonna say "crazy," I'm gonna write it down here. What are we talking about in here? We're back with the lawyers. Someone's complaining to the bar. This is the bar that's been ignoring your questions and questions from your predecessor for years. I don't know if it's any better this year or not, but in all the reports of your predecessor, including your last year, I see the total ignorance of the bar as if you don't exist. And what do you see now? Someone complains over the actions of a certain lawyer and the secretary of the bar or the secretary, I don't know what it is, decides it's not a complaint. That's not a complaint. He doesn't even relay it. And that's what you're warning me about. And I'm grateful to have you remind me of that. He doesn't even refer her to a disciplinary court. Not that either. And you don't get an answer from this chamber. I think it's catastrophic. And we're gonna be hearing this in here for ten more years or something! Is the minister gonna move or won't move? It's an amazing thing. In fact, you also write, on page 104, about the tariff and violation of the Code of Lawyers. You are very clear on this, I fully agree. You also find out what the minister has admitted, which I don't know how many times I've talked about behind the microphone, they just break, they charge more than they charge. Page 121. You're accurately describing the case when a lawyer refers to a client with the words "grandmother crazy." Sorry, that's not a violation. Nothing happens to him. They just don't react. Why aren't they responding? Because they belong to themselves. Of course, if they belong to themselves in disciplinary proceedings. Then how would we decide? Please draw a parallel to police procedures and complaints against police officers because your assistant knows them well. There, we know exactly that the absolute majority of complaints against foreign police officers, representatives of civil society, have an absolute majority. And we are by law in this term, and I think that in March this year we have passed the law again, that they should judge themselves, or that crows should not turn their eyes off. That's what we let them do. The Constitutional Court said, yes, that's the way it must be. That's an amazing thing to do. I support your two recommendations on page 106 if they relate to previous laws, to the so-called Smurf Act, but I do not support them, I must tell you that. Interesting thing, page 108. You describe the case of the initiator putting an objection before the court. That calls her, you find out - this case that I explained earlier that the court calls someone who complained to prove they have a state exam. And then the higher courts, which means that the courts of origin confirm that this is a mistake. But we can't do anything. It's over. You have the same case in Krka. The Krk court sets a bankruptcy award for the bankruptcy manager at a total value of 440 and several thousand euros, and forgets - the judge forgets! - that he's already fixed the withdrawal. And this man gets paid twice. The higher court in Ljubljana finds this, explains what time it is, and finds that unfortunately the appeal deadlines have expired. Unfortunately, it's gone, and someone's putting 200 grand in their pocket. This is the independence of the judiciary. Don't let anyone tell me I'm attacking the judiciary, away from it. I warn you, and I am obliged to warn you, and I thank you for your warning, but be even more loud about these matters. This must be done urgently, urgently, urgently, because it seems completely unacceptable to me what is happening. Independence of the judiciary does, but not when they make mistakes. That's bullshit! Two days ago, I think we passed the Offences Act on Wednesday, and I think we already voted on it, which made it clear that the higher courts are returning things to the first-degree courts. That is exactly what we have done, Mr. Potts, and nothing else. You're going to tell me about an individual case, but it doesn't matter at all. However, the argument was relatively clear. First - class judges judge poorly, some of them write too little evidence and so on, as the higher judges will cancel. That's probably true, and I agree with that. But that's no reason to change the law. This is why judicial mechanisms, control mechanisms are activated, identified and treated by such judges. They can also take their term. I would like to draw attention to the actions of the Justice Minister, who is leading things in the wrong direction. Police procedure. We don't have much to say here, as far as I know and know, the police have worked well with your predecessor, the police are more or less responding, you don't have a problem with them, so there's not much to say here. While noting the excessive media exposure in the matter of "pure shovel". What can I say? I think there's something else to be warned about if so. I really expected your vote at the time we adopted the Law on Lawyery in the National Assembly. I was expecting him. I missed him. I expected your very clear voice in the case of the Hude Cave or I missed it. But if the president says it's a second-class topic. You are also an independent state authority and have every right to say what you think. As is the case with Mr. Ertle. I very much agree in this chapter with your incontinence, with your difficulty in pointing out how bad it is to see police officers who commit crimes. I couldn't agree more. It happens a lot when you're driving down Highway 130, and it goes past you that you haven't even seen the number. This is a disaster. Administrative matters. We don't have much here because things are getting better. I don't think you keep writing about eraseds. You know, there's a lot more wiped out in this country, but there's another way. I would congratulate you for your progress, for everything you've done. The Ombudsman has been driving on his left in the past, and we need to know that he has been driving all the way to his left, and he has not been hiding it either. I congratulate you for walking in the middle of the road or for moving this institution and the reputation of this institution in the right direction, although sometimes I feel that it carries you a little further to the left, but we will survive it. There is great progress, compared to Mr Hanzek, that must be said. So much for your report. Besides, I need to say two more things we've heard here. I don't know, talking about how the editors are going to be, this problem is completely unrelated, because it's not the subject of what's going to happen in your report tomorrow. The fact is, abroad knows more than one police force. We know one police officer, that's the state police. There's no reason not to be a law on red tape, a law on local police. There's no reason why you shouldn't be working as a cop. You just have to educate them. The material injuries of World War II were also mentioned here. The last time I heard from Mrs Murska Sobota, she told me that I, as chairman of the committee, was the most competent one to be able to resolve this issue now. Of course, I made her clear, and I didn't go to a press conference. In the previous term, this lady was also with someone in the opposition at the time, and then the opposition adopted this lady and told her that she deeply supports the solution. And that's what they said on TV. They support the solution to this problem. Today, either you don't accept her anymore or you're giving her the wrong information to come to me. You're the one who can solve the issue of material damage to World War II. You have power, and we are the opposition. However, in this Chamber, to conclude, Mr President, it is permissible to talk about first-class demagogies, which have nothing to do with the Ombudsman's report. And all that. which is convenient, you have to say. And this is how some Members start and re-emphasize the 1993 arms affair. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, you've run three or four investigative committees. What did you find? Nothing. Apparently, you'll have another one before the end of your term, because you'll be fine with it, because the elections are going to be over, and you're going to be talking a little bit about the arms affair again, which might bring you a little bit of a dot. So that's a joke. What about the rest of the stuff someone was talking about, where did the money from the arms affair go? Hell, because you brought a whole bunch of money home when you had the wages of those you were on the commission of inquiry, what did you find? Then we'd have to find something! You were paid for it because you were members of the committees, three or four times who you were! No, it's a handy topic, again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Replication, correction of misstatement. Is this about correcting a misstatement?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u314	I was named after the adoption of the law on offences and let me just express my understanding. We have decided that in some exceptional cases where a fundamental infringement of the procedure occurred at the first stage, it is possible for the matter to be returned at the second stage, because otherwise it would be possible to get into a situation where the complaint would not be possible and constitutional rights would be violated. It was really complicated, just, Mr. Gorenak, to simplify so much and, as you say, to say by a farmer that the government has decided to return everything, but it is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u315	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Anton Kampush has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u316	Dear President, the Ombudsman, Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I must immediately join the statement of congratulations made by Comrade Gorenak about your good work. And that's what I'm joining up with. Allow me to speak a few words about the report, to see what the state of human rights is in in Slovenia. It is noted that the number of initiatives addressed to you is increasing. It is estimated at 10%, according to 2007. It is quite common that the cases concern the most areas of justice, delays in the courts, judicial experts, again the need for specialised departments in the courts, family issues. This means that there are quite a number of things that need to be improved. There are also many areas you have touched. One of these fell specifically into my eye, a hate speech. You have characterised it that there is too much of it in this House, in the National Assembly, especially in the debates on deleted and other debates. I really want to know what the next year will look like when you probably have to talk about some of the things that we are witnessing to them today. I will quote an ad that I saw in the newspaper, which reads: "I expect to see you in the spring in more Slovenian markets and streets as well." Whether it's a hate speech, you'll have to answer. These are the little things you have to go through. In this report, too, a number of important laws, such as the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, the Patients' Rights Act, the Mental Health Act and so on, have been introduced in 2008. We still miss the Long-Term Care Act, the ban on corporal punishment of children. At this point, I do not know that we are considering the report despite the opposition's protests, the SDS and so on. I can't find the real reason why the report wouldn't be dealt with. Unless we try to comment like this. The previous coalition has reduced wages for the Office of the Ombudsman. The officials in the office have set up lower than the officials in the ministries. The report of the Ombudsman Zdenka Cebašek Travnik in 2007 had to be sent by mail because the respected former Prime Minister did not have time for a personal presentation. Just tell me what the problem is. Is it fear, is it fear, or is it fear of unpleasant discoveries? I'm sure the time for disclosure will come slowly. The sooner the curtains fall. My intention today is to go to a Roma problem. I'm going to the Pomurje area where I'm most familiar with these things. In Pomura, there is an example of good practice in how integration is carried out, I think, the best in Slovenia. I can make it clear that we have received confirmation that the conduct of many individuals and public institutions is actually based on unacceptable prejudices towards Roma, leading to discriminatory practices, and that they do not see their neighbours or their neighbours as names and surnames, but, in particular, perceive their ethnic origins, link them to the way of life of this ethnic community. For this reason, I can clearly say that an even more comprehensive strategy for the integration of Roma communities in Slovenia must be approached. Despite the seemingly exemplary legislation, there is still a lack of clear definition of responsibility for individual tasks in the field of state and common concern for the Roma community. But so that it doesn't look so dry, I'm going to show you some examples of good practice in our field. As a first example, I will refer to the Municipality of Maribor, which has established a special working body to monitor the situation of the Roma community, although it is not obliged under Article 7 of the Law on Roma to provide a member in the municipal council. Another old one. In our administrative unit, I'm not going to talk about my congregation because they're teaching me that's not appropriate, we have two boys in one of the schools. And I can tell you without worry that you've become pets. Probably take one to count because they're slightly different colors, and on the other hand, because they're good people and they'd all like to stand by, help them. This is an example of our youngest. Great. And this is an excellent example of integration. And how to attract some groups, in this case the Roma community in Pomour, because I know her well, I have to say another case again. Can you imagine the Roma community in Murska Sobota also having its own voluntary fire company, called Desert?Oh, my God! Yeah, it's unusual. But the joke is, he doesn't even have any equipment, so it's just a society that's set up, and at this point he's got 30 members, 15 even qualified, and look what they've allowed. Since they have no equipment, they have nothing, they are already so modern that they have published a request on the website of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia, or which company wants to give up some equipment, one that they already have in such a state that they no longer use it. Many voluntary fire companies in Slovenia appeared to them. And this is a good example of how we should act elsewhere. I don't know why we should be afraid of them. At this point in Slovenia, as I said, there are a number of societies that have applied for this message and are undergoing excellent cooperation, and there are several types of cooperation in this area. This is a model acceptable to all, depending on time and effort, how much someone is willing to invest it. I'll say one more thing. Good practice, imagine, police to members of the Roma community. They have good relationships, they hang out, they're relatively permanently controlled. But they go so far as to be with them and sometimes some football "shoe". And that's the kind of partnership that has to be. Dear Guardian, I support the report and congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u317	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear guardian, Madam Minister, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! I support the Ombudsman's report, which in a very transparent way informs the National Assembly of the shortcomings in the functioning of individual institutions of the country when it comes to infringements of citizens' rights and the great difficulties in enforcing them. The Ombudsman correctly pointed to a time component that is not respected when someone submits a request, a complaint, an application, a request. What a matter will not be realized for many years, even when the Constitutional Court has ruled on the rights of those affected. In this regard, of course, I should point out only a few areas where problems are severe and the enforcement of certain rights by law is virtually impossible. The exercise of health rights first. This chapter is brief in the Ombudsman's report, but I must say that citizens rarely complain over violations of their rights in the field of healthcare in relation to operators. In the case of more than a hundred victims, one may complain because he fears that in the event of a complaint, resentment will fall on a system where it can no longer be successfully reported when seeking its rights. Let me draw attention to two bad practices here. Although it is already widely known that those who can pay quickly come to justice, there is now another story that those who are more wealthy pay insurance for fast, I can say, an immediate check-up with a specialist or insurance for quick admission to an elderly citizen's home. Where do you think you're gonna get faster? In that system, which is also paid by the poor, but which does not have the money for this insurance, and in this way the wealthier benefit the money of those who do not have it, in this system, which we jointly fund in solidarity. And such insurance is in the event that someone quickly gets the right in the public health system, unlawfully, unconstitutionally and seriously infringed human rights, not to say that citizens are severely discriminated against in this area. The same applies to admission to a home. Which homes? To those who are built with state money, or to those homes that are built in a public-private partnership? If anyone with this insurance comes into such a house in a row, they take the bed of a poor man who couldn't be protected. Therefore, this insurance is unacceptable to me, unless, of course, the insurance company builds its own home for its insurers of these types. The same applies to health rights. Furthermore, cases that have already been quite said about judicial protection, the exercise of rights to provide a solidarity basis for a person's worth living, I am thinking about poverty, which is not only a consequence of the crisis, but a phenomenon that is wider is growing slowly, but in the context of capitalist systems is growing. In doing so, it must be said that it is interesting that today the demands on the country to resolve these problems are imposed by those who have frozen the social rights of many through the Social Transfer Act in the time of relative prosperity in the previous mandate, thereby reducing the basis for increasing their rights, and today by calling on those same poor people on the streets to achieve their political objectives through revolutionary means. This is the contiguous thinking of those who did not vote for 0.6% of the minimum wage in the previous term. Today, of course, during the crisis, we would like to raise wages for 200 euros for poorly paid workers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is the problem and disrespect of the Ombudsman's institution, the Constitutional Court and, of course, the Court of Auditors and so forth, which I absolutely do [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u319	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u320	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The consideration of every report by the Ombudsman is always a real lesson for Members and Members of all the Council of State. At least that's what it's supposed to be. Members and Members should particularly consider those warnings in the report showing weaknesses in the legislation we adopted in the National Assembly. Inadequate legal provisions are often the source of human rights violations or insufficient safeguards to prevent such violations. Therefore, as long as we are engaged in amending or supplementing individual laws, in the light of the human rights of particularly sensitive laws, we should have before the eyes of the warnings, which are very systematically mentioned in the reports under consideration, as well as in this for 2008. However, consideration of the Ombudsman's report is always a real lesson in how, in fact, individual parliamentary political parties view the role of the Ombudsman, his independence and independence, and the importance of respect for and strengthening human rights in a broader sense. Today, too, we were not spared in this sense. Some human rights are human rights in the first order and others are human rights in the second order or are not human rights at all. At least some of the introductory discussions today have informed us of this and earlier developments on the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which we have heard a lot about today, as far as I am concerned, quite needlessly. How should we understand the evidence made here today that the Ombudsman has not spoken about certain events and procedures that have been the subject of political accounting and manipulation in our political public for a long time? Could we not take some of today’s calls to the Ombudsman for unacceptable political pressure on the Ombudsman, but let him finally understand what rights he must uphold, which he prefers to remain silent or at least simply ignore! Some of us who have also been Members in the previous term still remember too well the pressures and criticisms of the previous Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek. And by those who had political power in the country at the time. And why, of course? Of course, because he was tirelessly setting up a mirror in which they simply did not want to see and recognize each other. Even today, this debate is very good for you, Madam Honourable Guardian, only colleague Gorenak has given you some suspicious praise, just a little careful consideration. You've been told what you haven't clearly defined, and as a rule, on an ideological basis. Take all of this as a confession that you're doing well. I think it's just right for you to take it that way. As far as I am concerned, your report is very high-quality, and I support it, and as Members of the country's highest legislative body, it says a lot about what I need to pay particular attention to when adopting legislation. That human rights are universal and that they cannot be shared with yours and ours for a long time, and I have consistently respected that fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u321	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u322	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State, Madam Ombudsman. The reports that we are considering in the National Assembly seem to me somehow to be a review or a summary of the work, at least for myself, I can say that he also works a year at the office or in the field. Citizens and citizens are addressing with a large majority of these problems that you have covered in the report, including Members and Members of Parliament. There's a lot of that with me. Perhaps also because of this much more because I come from the part of Slovenia, the Slovenian Mountains, which are far from the big, white, flowering Ljubljana. Nevertheless, these problems are even more acute in these areas, but they are less noticeable in your report. It's not like we wouldn't do that, or we wouldn't accept them, or we wouldn't do that. These are people with problems, big, life, personal, family, and so on, who less turn to institutions. Of course, so much less if these institutions are far away, in Ljubljana. That is why many times my debate about local self - government, the congregations, and so on is also because people there have someone to turn to because it is simply closer to them. They will find out what more often than not, either because of age or because of such and other reasons. Well, as a result of this, consideration of this report in the National Assembly for those who are proposing legislation, namely Members, the Government, the Council of State, guidance and direction, that certain laws that can be amended should be amended in such a way as to minimise violations of human rights. By the way, you yourself have mentioned that legislation is changing just like that, ad hoc, all by the short process, quick procedures and so on, without the influence and possibilities of public participation. We had an example of a review of the amendment of the law, the ZOFVI, where about 5,000 teachers and teachers who taught us and had a sixth degree would stop them after 90 days plus one - and they could no longer be employed anywhere, so in education nothing else. Everything they've done has failed them, both professionally and on the human side we've demolished them to the end. These are mostly teachers and teachers who taught us. And when they organised themselves and tried somehow to influence the fact that this law was passed - by the way, for 50 administrators it changed, it was possible - but for these 5,000 teachers and teachers it did not happen. Therefore, the purpose of this report is certainly to change legislation in this direction. That is why those proposals coming from Members are also often based on the fact that we are dealing with these problems of people on the ground. That is why we also sometimes propose to Members, the opposition, and some legislation. Unfortunately, however, there could also be some analysis by the Ombudsman, how many such laws that would improve the situation of people and thus less violate the legislation have come from the opposition and how many of these have ever been taken into account. In fact, this is what we meet up with almost every session. This time, for example, the law on the protection allowance or the law on pension and disability insurance for farmers. I purposely mentioned these two laws because they were meant for this particular farmer's life to get that year's allowance there, or whatever he's called, even those who may not have paid in their lifetimes, but still have a hard time - not eight hours, but after a few tens and hours - to work and preserve this country, agriculture, rurals, in short, what we like to behave with. Nor is it heard of, for something good, but it is also because they live with 160, 170 euros on farms, great traumas, and many times their rights have been violated. Even because they just can't get to her. That is why there is little or very little or almost no problem of farming life in this report. Because this one doesn't really get to you. I have been thinking, and perhaps it would point to such exposed areas in the countryside in some remote congregation to organize, invite you there and meet these people as well. Madam Ombudsman, if you agree to this, I will be, as one of those with that blasphemous position of mayor - a Member - now one of them will have the advantage because the mayor is also a Member - and I will take you to one of the neighbouring municipalities, not to the municipality in which I am also the mayor. It is certainly clear from your report that I am pleased that you have also been crippled by globalisation, where the majority of the population, a large part of the population, has been left so without freedom and so without prosperity. And those who are left and have a job and work are left behind, or they find that they are also deprived of what is legally theirs, without paid contributions to disability and pension insurance. There is no justification if any company does not pay these contributions. No excuses! However, there is no less justification if it is also violated in companies where the majority owner of the country is. However, it is in the sky sobbing that this is done by the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the owner of a large company, but behind this there are some other stories that we have heard a lot about here today. This is, however, even more unacceptable and actually rejected, an act of rejection. You know, human rights violations don't happen tomorrow. Human rights violations took place systematically, from day to day, from year to year. This has been more so with the adoption of such and other legislation. And when it comes to adopting legislation that has violated human rights and is very much in breach of them, as I said before, even the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia can - and can afford it, nothing happens! I'm sorry. But the Orions will happen, and nothing will happen; but the Istrabenz will happen, and in the end it will be necessary for Bavcar to take care of the bread at the employment office, and nothing will happen. In short, the system doesn't work! Here it is likely, not the task of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, but of those who should correct the legislation in this direction in order to start the system functioning - that is, the Government. Unfortunately, many words and many promises in this year have not been made much in this area or were extremely small. Poor communication in health care between doctors and patients. But if they say anything, if they do, if they do, then I'm sorry -- I'm sorry about all those doctors who don't fall into this basket by any chance, and believe me, most doctors don't fall into this basket. No, no, no. The vast majority of them are good, honest, and truly doctors in the right place. Those few individuals, of course, enjoy this and then mutilate the entire medical supply. Just as the Minister of the Interior's mother affords herself - and nothing happens again. In short, it is unacceptable and, of course, in such cases, institutions should react and the government should immediately change legislation so that these things do not happen again. I am pleased that - although this is widely known - minorities in Slovenia, especially Hungary and Italy, who are indigenous minorities, are represented in Parliament and are provided with the greatest possible measure to protect them. Your heart is racing, but unfortunately we don't have it, and neither does our guardian, except that sometimes even someone says about how terribly these minority rights are violated - collectively as individuals or collectives do - to our minorities living in neighbouring countries. Even in Hungary, they will probably die out in one way or another, because there is only something small spoken in the Slovenian language when it comes to the exercise, and nothing else. What bilinguality and so forth! We therefore have more than enough to take care of and it is not wrong; it is only wrong that our minorities can say in a less transparent way to the native peoples from which they come, such a Hungarian minority in Slovenia, in order to take such a stand that the rights of the Slovenian minority must be protected in the same way or at least in the same way as the rights of the Slovenian minority in the use, or the Italian for the protection of the minority rights of our relatives in the coastal or mountain-market work. There is also much talk about social policy or social pressures. While I am glad that it is also written here that more work will be done in the future to protect the rights of children. Here I really expect the Office of the Ombudsman to respond to the protection of children's rights. As you wrote down, children's rights must also remain at the forefront of [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to deal with all child issues. [[...]] And no matter what the law does. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u323	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u324	It hasn't broken yet. The flag hasn't fallen. Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u325	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u326	If you're interrupting me, but let me tell you the whole story. [[...]] I think so. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u327	Just say it all the way. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u328	Thank you very much. There's not much time left to say good-bye to everyone. I would like to point out that as many as 489 people, farmers benefit from a lower pension of 100 euros and 13,180 have a lower pension of less than 200 euros, 24,662 receiving less than 300 euros. I did not see this in the Ombudsman's report, and I would say that it is unsustainable that €180 million is not paid in health and disability insurance and that he has released EUR 50 million in this area. The government is very irresponsible with regard to the farming population and cannot unify the pension, so at least it would give everyone the same, and that would not be enough for these 50,000 people to be below the poverty threshold. For the threshold of poverty is said to be around €480, even though we know that it is not enough for a person to live a decent life. It's not enough! I am very sad and disappointed that the 100,000 heads of the crowd, who have no right to work and have lost it at the expense of being privileged in society, did not have sufficient attention in this report. We have not condemned in a single word all those tycoons who were the demonstrators of the Slovenian economy and have contributed to the fact that we have such poverty today. We have closed good companies, and there is not a guardian of that either, with a single word of warning. Finally, I would also like to touch what is too much in the report. We do as in the National Assembly also with deleted, Roma - Gypsies prefer to say, they call themselves that - and with other marginal groups, while for our Slovenes and Slovenians we do not have enough tender eyesight and solutions. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Last but not least, why the national television of the regional programme still does not have a subtitled transmission when the programme is being implemented in Italian. We're all paying for this program. This is also discrimination [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u329	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u330	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, respectable Ombudsman, colleague and colleague. When considering the report, which is every year, it is possible to discuss in what way and how strongly we are fortifying the rule of law. It grieves me that there is an increase in the number of demands that are the subject of the Ombudsman's treatment. Here I wish that the rule of law is applied to all ministries, to all the authorities of the country that enter into relations with citizens and that they exercise their duties so that, of course, human rights and rights will not be violated at all. He himself would have touched some of the content of this report. First of all, I would like to touch on one of the points that I think should be imagined by the ministries whether it is also flying on them. Because it is clear from the emphasis that one of the Ombudsman's warnings is that certain ministries, under justification of the complexity of the task, are somehow excused for not being able to remedy any violation by drafting a law or a sub-law that would help to reduce human rights violations. And it clearly notes that this can also be due to the inability or incompetence of the body that is committed to resolving this issue. That is why I think this is a very important warning sent by the Ombudsman to the whole government. I would also like to draw attention to one of the very important areas mentioned in the report, which is the ethics of the public word. I am very concerned that the increase in this area is in the figure of 255. So it is a tremendous increase and an increase in those matters which have a basis in the so-called exercise of the right to freedom of expression. I believe that this right of freedom of expression has been exploited many times in recent times, and this has resulted in a lot of excruciating and insulting statements in the public and the impact of human dignity. Here I agree with the guardian that she sends clear warnings to the media. Let's just look at these "real shows" where you're allowed to talk at the lowest possible level, at a time of viewing where it's possible to watch the children of the smallest ages. Here I think the guardian's warning is extremely important. At the same time, I feel that examples are the most important guide. We, parliamentarians, too, can be struck by this criticism and warning, because we are in the media all the time, and it is very important, even how we do not know how to interpret words about the problem in relation to each other. I would also like to draw attention to an extremely important issue, an area which I think is well regulated in Slovenia. This is the area of treatment of people with disabilities, i.e. people with disabilities. I think that we have also regulated this area well enough with legislation, that we have a funding foundation and that by ratifying the disability convention we have taken a step further. However, given the smallness of the Slovenian nation, it seems to me an extremely important warning, which speaks of the need to ensure an equal relationship between all those who wish to study. It would therefore be very good to draw the attention of all ministries, both the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Higher Education, that the statutes and internal acts of universities and individual colleges should address this issue in a way that ensures that the principle of equal opportunities is realized. This seems extremely important to me, because in this case, of course, we can lose great potential in these people. I would also like to stop at warnings about the realization of the constitutional right to life in a clean environment. In fact, I think it is unacceptable that we are late to regulate those areas that would provide continuous and quality monitoring of all parameters or important and necessary parameters to protect the environment, the lives of people in a healthy environment. Here the guardian clearly reminds us of the legal regulations we have not done everything to ensure that these areas are fully covered. And in the end, he would touch only the areas of health. The Ombudsman very closely describes the problems of protecting patients' rights and, of course, commends the law. At the same time, it draws attention to one important issue, which was also evident in the adoption of this law, the involvement of the public in the stage of the adoption of this law. Here again we should consider in the Government a recommendation that is not new, which is old and has not yet been implemented, and this is to adopt a law that would define procedures and ways of involving the public in the process of enacting laws. The practice is different, and many times we are faced with the public always reminding us of the lack of integration opportunities. I also point out in this law that the Ombudsman also points out that people are not aware of their rights under this law. Therefore, despite the fact that the Government, in its response to the Ombudsman's warnings, should report that much has been done, but precisely on the basis of concrete cases in this area it can be seen that there is still much work to be done here in this area of the Government. I am pleased that this Government has changed the practice that has been established in the previous government, the state-of-the-art and uncontrolled distribution of healthcare concessions, by recommending that the continuation of concessions should be awarded only on the basis of public calls - of course, I support the decision of this Government not to continue with the bad practice of the previous period, to stop the award of concessions until it is properly regulated. Finally, I congratulate the Ombudsman and the entire team involved, on the quality report, on the very clear recommendations. I would like to be able to talk next year about a large proportion of the implementation of these recommendations and, therefore, I will support the report myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Before I go any further, I would like to point out that government representatives, if you like, can have a word with you. Mrs. Melita Zupevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u332	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to briefly touch on the matter that has already been discussed today, and it has been pointed out by the guardian herself. This is the decommissioning and decommissioning of the authority of state institutions and the spread of mistrust. It seems very important to me, and yesterday I experienced one such thing, which basically says a lot about what the guardian herself was talking about and what she pointed out. When I spoke, and I gave an example, if in this House we are aware of the reputation of the Slovenian Parliament, of this temple of democracy in public, I heard it from the last kinds, so suggested: "Who cares, then what?" And then - that's what we think about it. I'll explain why I'm saying this when some of you creminate and do all kinds of makeup with what I'm saying. The Ombudsman points out that the reputation of the institutions of the Government, Parliament and the judiciary is low. I am sure that this trend will be the same in the 2009 report, or worse. And in this temple of democracy, we are the ones who make a huge contribution. Very much. Every day in this hall, I hear about traitors, criminals, frauds, frauds. And we usually talk about the same groups of people. When we talk about judges, when we talk about lawyers, when we talk about civil servants, they are described as criminals, frauds, liars, lazy people. And no one in this House reacts! Nobody. Smile. That's our reaction. Smile. Whatever they want to say, this is what we are used to, this has become a domain in this House, that it is not a problem what we say, because the Parliamentary Chamber obviously bears everything. It is not surprising that the reputation of institutions is such and that we are witnesses to decommissioning! It's not weird, or it can't be. I think that we who are in here should have the first awareness of what words we use in this House. In every darkness. Believe me, I don't care, and I am often ashamed, and I will also speak from the point of view of Members sitting in this House. Today we've been talking about mobile phones and insults. I know that a lot of my colleagues on a lot of board are getting words like, "What are you talking about, what do you even know?" This is happening here, in this House, and this is the reputation of this House, and this is some road, some route that we set up, and you can nod off as much as you want, and you too belong to such people. You too! I'm crazy, this is a discussion, gentlemen, like you. That's the discussion. This is a debate in this House, about fraud, about lazy people and so on, that I will not continue. Mr Gorenak, by what you have just said, you have shown what the reputation of this House is, what words are used in this House, how we can tell each other everything that lies on our soul. I'm sorry, we can't. And a while ago, I think that at the beginning of this week, a public opinion survey has been published that has shown that this Parliament has the lowest rating so far. And in this House people, citizens and citizens hear statements about this, about individual groups. Not to mention deleted ones, not to mention same-sex ones with a special characterization, a special description that some persist in repeating. Persistence! And until we can, here, in this House a little more parliamentary culture and a sense of fellowness, then this process, which the Ombudsman points to, the process of evaluating the authority of state institutions and spreading mistrust, cannot turn this process in a positive direction. I do not know how we will achieve that we will improve the reputation of these institutions, that we will contribute something to this, because unfortunately in this country - or fortunately only the categories of people you see walk, but are also ordinary, honest people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u333	Mr. Gorenak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u334	Thank you very much. I will say this: words for judges, employees and so on, because the Member said we call them frauds, liars and so on. There is one question, Member, whether you have a problem with understanding, whether you are sitting on your ears, that is another option, you may be on some kind of coffee somewhere outside and you do not know what is going on here. At least you named me, and I understood it as if you were telling me that I was talking. That's not what I said. You're in writing, so read the tape, and you'll see what I'm saying. After my performance, I went to the nanny and at least after her mimicry, and after a few words we exchanged, I understood that she understood my debate as very constructive. And I don't know where you're in trouble because you don't understand something. But I'm not surprised, but you know that there are such contributions in the newspapers as you have now been in the press, if you've been writing the same way you've been saying. Then it's all clear. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me, I have the floor, and he'll give it to the chairman. [[...]] The situation is like this. No one has ever talked about fraud, liars, and I don't know what else, but at least me. And please be present in the hall, gather around, concentrate, and then speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u335	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. In the morning, I mentioned Gaddafi, his abolition of the Constitution when he came into power, and his laws. The process of dealing with this report on the home work body in some way resembled some revolutionary law. When my colleague Irgle was in the hospital, professional services came to her office and called a meeting. When I came from my office, we had a secretary and a secretary together, and the secretary of the commission was crying. And this was a typical case of mobbinga and human rights violations in the National Assembly, and let's imagine a little bit about that. In general, I would say that this report is very nice, extensive, it is more beautiful every year and it is quite a fine editorial art achievement. We can agree on that, I guess. However, some things appear year after year in this report. We can explain this by simply repeating some human rights violations from year to year. On the other hand, this fact can also be explained by the fact that the Ombudsman of the human rights of other violators simply does not detect, which of course would be bad. I have read all of these cases in this report, and I would also like to hear from the Ombudsman what criteria she took in publishing these cases, what editorial principles she had when she included them in this report, because I do not think that over-selectiveness in this regard is good. In the section of the National and Ethnic Minority and of the Sub-chapter of the Rights of the National Communities, you note that in 2008, you did not receive any initiative specifically to point out a violation of the specific rights guaranteed by both self-government national communities and their members. I think that this is very good, that this is great and that we can be proud of this in Slovenia. I miss your reaction and comment when Slovenians who feel discriminated against in this bilingual area also come to your address from a bilingual area. Do they warn that when they do not speak Hungarian or Italian in bilingual areas, they become second-rate citizens? See, Madam Ombudsman, you were also warned in writing about this by Maria Sever from Čresnovec, a university graduate lawyer who speaks Slovenian, English, and not Hungarian. However, she did not get a job at the Lendava Administrative Unit because of her lack of knowledge of Hungarian. She complained to you, complained to the administrative unit, to the Administrative Court, for nothing. Thus she wrote in one of her complaints: "I would like to stress in particular the fact that, in full respect for Slovenia, I respect the rule of law and recognize the Hungarian national community, that to the greatest extent possible all its rights are protected, that in the Republic of Slovenia it is treated in the same way as all other citizens, including the special rights which the Hungarian national communities undoubtedly belong to. With all due respect for the rights of the Hungarian national community, however, I would point out the rights enshrined in the chapter on human rights and fundamental freedoms in Article 14, which regulates equality before the law, also recognises that, as a Slovenian citizen, I do not speak Hungarian that everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs. I am a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that with such an exclusionary way of dealing with me only because of the failure to meet one of the tender conditions violated fundamental human rights..." writes Maria Sever and adds a number of things. Such and similar cases and problems in Slovenia should not, however, be covered with eyes. Apparently, no one wants to talk about it publicly because they're obviously afraid of any stigmatization. Second example, I would also go to the Department of Health Care and Health Insurance for 2008. Madam Ombudsman, I am missing a lot of media coverage, not to say the infamous case of Šilih of Slovenj Gradc, who reached one of the highlights in last year's report. Probably not an epilogue yet because it's been 16 or 17 years. On this occasion, you have been informed on several occasions, and your colleague on the left is from Slovenj Gradac and knows this very well. The Shilih family, because of their son's death, claimed that it was a medical error, took advantage of legal options in Slovenia and turned to the European Court of Human Rights. This court ruled the Shilikhs in favor. And, look, the Republic of Slovenia was convicted for the first time in history in the case of Shilih versus Slovenia for violating the right to life. This was in 2008, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. And this case did not find room in this beautiful book. You're talking about cases where the lost patient's medical records were found in the health care facility only after the guardian's intervention. Yeah, yeah, I do! But this case, an eclectic case, which has been written by Slovenian and European media for ten years and more, has not earned a hearing in this report! That's not all. Slovenia complained about this judgment. And for the first time, at her own request, she also appeared before the great Senate of this court. Interesting. And again, Slovenia lost here. Slovenia has been sentenced to EUR 7,540 in compensation for the costs of Šilich for a trial of 4,000 and several euros. The Slovenian State has not only disgraced itself or caused additional costs by this additional trial before the Grand Chamber, but has poured salt on the open wounds to the Shilih family. Interesting. Let's move on in this case. What else has the European Court of Human Rights found? In the civil proceedings initiated by the Shilikhs, only six judges were replaced at the first stage. Colleagues and colleagues, six judges have been replaced in the first stage! I think everyone who beats the Slovenian court on this first stage. The European Court of Human Rights notes that the replacement of six judges in one case alone cannot contribute to the effectiveness of the judiciary. Of course, this also points to the catastrophic situation in the Slovenian judiciary - forgive me for using the term "catastrophic" - which some of you sing so much. And of course, since no one in this country is going to get hurt, the situation is the way it is. When someone wants to tell or write the truth, they want to liquidate it. And when someone in Slovenian justice judges courageously by law and justice - they plant a bomb on him. There must be a lot of cases that you do not mention in this report and have them in your drawer. And it is true, as my colleague Pukšič said earlier, that people come to our office with various problems. Take a look at our website once, read some questions and answers, and you will find a number of topics that you can also address in this report. But I'd like to mention another case for the end. Madam Ombudsman, you have been approached by some of the staff from the Training, Work and Protection Centre in Montenegro, Koroška, who have been trained by a university-graduate theologian. Officials at the Social Chamber decided that graduates of the Faculty of Theology could not conduct a professional examination at the Social Chamber, so that these women could not make progress in their work position, through a finished college, a college which is also a member of the University of Ljubljana. I think that this is an unprecedented discrimination because the Social Chamber cannot be the one that arbitrarily determines the appropriateness or equivalence of a college programme, but is the responsibility of other institutions. In short, the range of human rights violations is much more diverse than what you show in this book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u337	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u338	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! Social Democrats have been very closely monitoring the work of the Ombudsman, and we have been participating in the consideration of each report since 1995, since we discussed the first report of the Ombudsman in the National Assembly. Mr Ivo Bizjak, who presented the first annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for 1995 and the partial annual report of the Ombudsman for 1996, was the first Ombudsman, to be remembered. And I would like to quote how he started his first report to the Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia. So he said, "I would like to express my regret that at the reading of this point I see the right half of the hall empty." Let me say that at the time we discussed this subject only a colleague of Dara Lavtijar Bebler, late Member Anton Delak, Roman Jakič, Dr Cyril Ribičič and I, no one else. At the same time, the first Ombudsman also pointed out that the place where the government was supposed to sit was completely empty. Today, of course, the situation is different. Representatives of the government, both ministers, ministers and state secretaries, have been involved in this report since the beginning. I will touch on one area of this report so that I will leave some time for my colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to touch the area, briefly, the areas of the environment and space. For 2008, 112 initiatives were addressed to the Office, which is 5 less than in 2007. In 2008, the Office dealt with 132 cases in this area. In the field of environment and space, it is noted that there are still many cases of long-term acceptance of spatial documents and non-conclusion with the envisaged regulation, thus being noted by the Ombudsman. It also notes that the number of cases addressed in the area such as interventions to make it essential, and this is very strong, has increased the number of cases in the area of space management. From 36 to 54 initiatives, this is quite a 50% increase. It is clear that citizens and citizens are very dissatisfied with their roles in local communities regarding spatial plans, the change in the destination of their lands and other matters affecting spatial issues. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to invite all the planners of the premises, which are many government departments, to speed up the work on the preparation of municipal spatial plans or the production of expert opinions and guidelines for municipalities, as we know that there are currently as many as 153 municipal spatial plans in the preparatory phase. If we find that these cases are 54 cases that went to the Ombudsman, there is more than 50% increase, but not all of them are dissatisfied. From my own practice, I say that practically every day when I am at home in my constituency, people stop and ask when they will finally give their consent to the municipal spatial plan in the congregation and the government. I think that this is one very important area and it is right for the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman to draw attention to this area and that we Members also demand that these procedures be accelerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u339	Mr Vito Rozjej has the word - he is not there. Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u340	For intonation, perhaps one interesting fact that I now had the opportunity for a few days to read vastly the records that Mr Tomaž Ertl was talking about, and I went all the hair up today, from this time distance, when I remembered how easily they were talking about the liquidation of the city's right hand, the application for the introduction of extreme resources and everything else. This is very interesting in the light of what we are saying today. Today, we would say otherwise, we would talk about grave violations, systematic violations of human rights and hate speech in the part where it was a mockery of other thinkers, anyone who was politically different from the structure of the time. But, ladies and gentlemen, has anything really changed, at least in the work of the Slovenian political public?Oh, my God! I will give three examples, just for a picture of what is missing in this report, because, as Professor Fairfield's textbook says, "Sometimes what is missing is more important than what is presented to the public in some media or in some report." The first case is, of course, from 2008, because it is 2008 when there was a pre-election meeting to discuss the pension problem. And one SDS representative responded to the invitation and was given the opportunity to speak. Later it turned out that it was basically organized as an SD meeting, and then, because they wanted a little plurality in front of the media, they invited others. But it's just for information. Well, then what followed. The colleague who attended this managed only to read but to quote from the magnetogram what Mr Gaspari, the current minister of the Government, said when he advocated that "what some pensioners would have in their hands the entire fund", namely the transfer of the entire fund to the state of Slovenia from the pensioners who had until then, this was somewhere in 1997, had a valuable fund in their hands and managed it with large assets. In short, it would be called home-made hate speech. But what followed is interesting. That was in 2008! What the report is talking about! Then came the literal roaring of the crowd, like 100 people there: "He must be killed. Shoot him, we didn't get enough of them in a ditch to rot there..." and so on. 7 journalists were present, no one wrote about it - interesting! And then there was the chant, "Kill him and throw him out!" And then that fellow left that meeting. So much for who spreads hate speech in Slovenia and what is the tolerance of a certain part of politics in Slovenia. The president of the Retired Society, former SD Member, was also present, and you can ask her what this thing looked like. Well, then another picture on the same subject. We could read a comment in the Saturday annex of one of the largest central newspapers in Slovenia, where the following conclusion was that as far as human rights are concerned, everything is now ideal, but the worst human rights violation in Slovenia, but the whole history on Slovenian soil is the fact that some have been transferred from one register to another or, as originally stated in that comment, "so-called deleted". I would remind you that in this story only someone who did not respect the invitation, including the then President of the State and the leadership, can be in trouble to regulate their status in accordance with the rules of the new State either on a permanent basis or on a temporary basis, or to apply for citizenship. Only 600 tolars have to be given. And declare this the most terrible systematic violation of human rights. You know, this is especially interesting if it happens in the year that the Huda Cave is discovered. And I'm going to show you one picture of her because the painting says more than a thousand words. These, ladies and gentlemen, are pictures of women who have been mutilated and killed. There are no Nazis here, and all the other "ists" that we often hear about are official fairy tales, there were women buried alive, there were some bodies in a pose when they crawled up against that meter and half of concrete with which they were covered by the slaves. And why am I bringing this up? This is because often in 2008 the same syntagma of "bone counting" and "bone digging" appeared again in this space as well, and a similar expression from the arsenal of hate speech. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about the consistency of respect for human rights, it is the first and fundamental in respect of those who have been deprived of everything - all human rights, including the fundamental right to life. And at least show them consistent respect and consistency in respect for human rights. From this point of view, by the way, the award of the medal to a recent man who was at the head of the Udba, the secret police of the totalitarian regime was certainly at the symbolic level the gravest violation of the human rights of those, even those who cannot even defend themselves anymore, and in ridicule of all the victims of the totalitarian regime, there is a separate state of Slovenia on Slovenian soil throughout the whole. I am very interested to see whether the Ombudsman's report will take this form next year. Speaking of stories, let me finish where I started. When I read the statements of the then Head of the Udba, Mr Ertl, I could read how boldly he spoke about where we would come if we had some kind of street democracy - so he spoke about the gatherings of people, the democratic assemblies we were meeting at, asking for the freedom of the closed four and for democracy in Slovenia, the pluralism we are living in today, and for the independent state. Of course, there is an obvious hate speech here too. Why am I ending this? Ladies and gentlemen, because that is exactly what we have been listening to in this room, and not just in 2008, we have been listening to it today. Some are apparently heirs to this hate speech or, rather, what someone learns, someone then knows, and the rumors of their former teachers cannot be gotten rid of. But, please, let us all be aware, including the right to democratic assemblies, to peaceful assemblies, to freedom of expression of public opinion, is a constitutional right, is a human right that has its place, its protection in the Slovenian Constitution and, of course, dictates that we have an appropriate, positive attitude.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u341	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u342	Thank you for your word. I consider the Ombudsman's 2008 report to be a well-prepared document for a good and serious debate, although the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights has shown little opposite. Nevertheless, the guardian and her team should be commended for the work they are doing. It is true, however, that the Ombudsman can only point out violations and that respect for human rights depends on many other factors, especially the functioning of the rule of law and the provision of basic conditions for a decent human life and the provision of basic conditions for work and living, which must ensure a decent life and that is the most we can do for human rights. It follows from the report that in respect of respect for human rights, the situation is improving from year to year, but that problems are recurring year to year at the same level, but I will count only some: long-term procedures before the administrative authorities of the courts, lack of confidence in the health system and ensuring sufficient number of doctors in the non-urban field, lack of trust in the functioning of social institutions, irregular conditions in respect of the functioning of the legislation and employers' relations with workers: the problem is in obtaining housing [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] for the socially weak; too little attention to older people who are in nursing homes as well as others who live alone or within families and could still be listed, but I am running out of time [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u343	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to express my support for this report and to congratulate the Ombudsman, because this extensive work covers a very wide range of issues and I believe that it has not been easy to bring such a wide spectrum into one publication and to record just all the details relating to respect for or disrespect for human rights. We know from practice that this respect depends on too many factors to blame only one segment of society or only the state or only state institutions. We know that rights are violated everywhere from the family from the base cell to the state. I particularly welcome the Ombudsman's efforts to establish children's rights, in particular those children in difficult situations where there are judicial proceedings where parents are involved, where children themselves are involved, where there is actually a separation and long-term conflict and conflict between parents. I think that this particular category of children is particularly exposed and it is important to ensure that all institutions that monitor the situation of these specific and extremely sensitive groups or categories must do their work as effectively as possible. The warning that Pilate's decision to the Centre for Social Work is repeatedly postponed, I think it is very useful and that, in fact, it has already worked, even though, as we read, the Supreme Court has not given all the right and expected answers. It is probably also a matter of legislative action towards a clear determination of the jurisdiction of courts, centres for social work and, in particular, the protection of children who are subjected to strong psychological violence in precisely such cases. I am also grateful for the chapters dealing with the rights of migrants or the rights of asylum seekers. It is an extremely exposed community, which still has not found the right legal framework in Slovenia, as in some other countries. And that's why there's been a big misunderstanding. Even though the Government and the Ministry of the Interior are working to resolve certain situations where such or other human rights violations occur. In 2008, we were also informed of some isolated cases of foreigners who were living in Slovenia without documentation, lived in centres or asylum homes and were always in distress, awaiting expulsion. It was from these centres that the next step was the exile, even though some were married to Slovenian citizens, that we were informed. I also informed the Ministry of the Interior a few times later, and I think that the Ministry of the Interior has also acted accordingly. But obviously it's a need for a systematic resolution of such issues. Tomorrow we celebrate the day of migrants. December 18th is also a world day of migrants and I would like to join on this occasion in calling on the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia to ratify an international convention, which has been established, if I am not mistaken, in 2003 and the main concern of countries for the protection of the rights of foreign workers, who are repeatedly subject to specific forms of exploitation, as well as to illegal disregard for labour law. Statistics show that it is precisely these workers, particularly from poorer countries of origin, who are subject to four times the illegal activities of certain companies or owners, employers, precisely because of the irregular status. If Slovenia ratifys - and I also want to point out the need for early ratification, I think the papers are ready and only have to join this ratification - Slovenia will also be better equipped with law and convention to prevent or at least limit such phenomena. There are also some other social groups where some other elements of human rights violations could be found. There was also a lot of talk about bilingual areas. I myself believe that even though the formal status of our minorities is constitutionally recognised minorities, there are many real minorities that have no legal protection - we have only three minorities listed in the constitution, one is partly discriminated against, I think it is a Roma minority. Their problems are being solved, but I have repeatedly warned that this minority in the National Assembly does not have a suitable interlocutor. And this has elements of human rights violations. While he can communicate with the Government and the local community, where he also has a seat, he still has no competent body in the National Assembly, where he could express his distress. Even when we consider the progress report on the protection of the Roma minority, I do not know which body will be responsible for this. It will probably be again the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights. Let us therefore evaluate one of the ethnic communities to the level of petitions and human rights, while in fact it is an entity with its cultural and national identity. But let us not forget that in Slovenia there are many other minorities who live here, which we can already label as indigenous but do not have any rights. And sooner or later this taboo will have to be dealt with and guaranteed those rights that go to every minority. It was said that colleague Friday mentioned the phenomenon of discrimination in ethnically mixed areas, which this time affected a citizen of the majority people. With all the understanding of the crisis and the problems described above, it must be said that the rules in national mixed areas are very clear. For such jobs, priority is given to those who also know the language of the environment, i.e. the language of nationality. That's normal. I do not know under what circumstances such a decision has taken, but I suppose the advantage has been given to those who know Hungarian or Italian in those environments. I was also aware of the problem of bilinguality in the police department these days. The police want and also want to implement the rights of citizens properly by training police in national mixed environments with the knowledge of the language of the environment. It must be acknowledged that they are working very hard, but they themselves point out that they are facing one very specific obstacle, that the issue of the bilingual supplement, an appendix that allows the skills of police officers, which is also applicable to the second category of public workers, is that journalists in bilingual homes who have to translate from one language into another and are not adequately paid for, although the law says so. I was also informed by a Roma journalist working under the Roma Radio Slovenia programme. That question has not been resolved there either. Therefore, this debate should also be an incentive to be an opportunity to think and resolve these inconsistencies as soon as possible. That's pretty much it. Finally, I must also regret the fact that, in such an interesting, important debate on such an important report, there is once again political controversy, ideological and cultural confrontations with the Ombudsman's issues, which are very political, which could be put to, for example, the President, the Prime Minister, us, politicians. But I don't know why we should be burdened with past questions, with Mr Ertl or the Russian ambassador, Madam Guardian. Maybe curiosity is justified, but it seems to me that someone wants to take every opportunity to do so. Today we were also faced with other laws, with other debates, and in every debate this laziness was present. It's obviously a "light motive" that some try to sell to the public through the National Assembly, with all legitimacy, I don't deny the legitimacy of the opposition to do what it does. However, I find it unrealistic because so many of these specific issues are in this report that it would be nice to use this day to clear up some of the open issues of this report. In general, I am glad that the debate was very substantive, mostly I think that it was also of quality and that the Government will also in some way encourage resolution, although not all questions, because I repeat, these issues are not only about countries, I think that we need to act in the direction of changing consciousness, attitude towards different, attitudes towards hate speech, attitudes towards children, attitudes towards women, attitudes towards same-sex couples. I'm afraid we're going to be witnessing the talk of intolerance and hate speech again in a short time when feelings will flare up when we discuss the family code, where someone will try to overshadow the essence of this family code, this is the protection of children against violence and all other abuses. And we'll hear again probably, I hope not in the National Assembly, but the social climate is one where we can quickly use it to shoot homophobic arrows or whatever we know. In times of crisis and social distress this is easier, it is possible to encourage debates that are emotionally tense and that are negative against others. I hope that, at least after this debate we have had today, there will be a level of awareness of respect for the human rights of all minorities, all marginal groups, all citizens and citizens, all workers, our workers and also foreign workers, which we will also need in the future, as they need and exploit in all developed countries, in order to establish a system of protection of the rights of all citizens and citizens, workers and groups as a democratic and social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u345	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u346	Thank you for your word. In my debate, I would like to define housing issues, which are also an integral part of this report in the Ombudsman's annual report and, of course, points again and again to the pressing problem that exists in this area. In fact, I would like to support in some way these findings, which are set out in the report, that we must first try to refresh and prepare a new housing programme, which, of course, should also try to take into account the current situation. Last but not least, we have met with intensive market construction in the last period and, I hope, significantly less intensive housing construction for rent and thus providing opportunities to address the housing problem to those who do not have enough resources to solve their own housing problem. However, the fact is that the housing programme should certainly record binding solutions for both the sources of construction and, of course, in the field of tax policy, some solutions that should not change during the period of validity of the housing programme. For we have met with the fact that, at the time of construction and investment in dwellings, tax legislation has changed and, at some point, the Income Act has stated that investment in housing or housing problems is no longer taken into account as a relief. This was an extremely difficult situation for anyone who wanted to solve the housing problem. Above all, this was live and present in 2008 and, in particular, these problems are becoming even more difficult in times of economic and financial crisis, where, of course, job security is very questionable and difficult and, on the other hand, there are some obligations. Therefore, this current situation should certainly be examined and taken into account in further solutions. I would also like to raise the issue, which is also mentioned in this report, with regard to the price of the beneficiaries for the subsidisation of rents. The censorship for subsidisation was significantly higher years ago than it is now, and this also causes very large problems, and especially today in this economic crisis, when the possibility of income generation is significantly lower than it was in economic growth. And here too, it will be necessary to really change these criteria as soon as possible and to allow greater subsidies for rents, especially those who do not have enough income to pay these rents. However, in the case of operations, I would also like to draw particular attention to the role of the Centre for Social Work, especially in those cases where, despite regular warnings to the tenants, this does not respond and there is no need to complete the form for subsidising the rent and, in the final stage, there is a decision to be made on the part of the tenants. An extremely difficult, most difficult case that can happen in solving this, but I believe that we should somehow make it very clear in the housing law or any other provision that in such cases it is necessary to establish by a social work centre a kind of guardian to such a tenant who will at least make sure that he can be provided with a subsidy to rent and thereby mitigate this problem. The question of housing units is open from the moment we wrote it down in the law, but it is not being implemented successfully. Here, too, I think that the actual Ministry of the Environment should be more actively involved in this problem and, of course, for the most difficult cases, try to provide criteria under which accommodation units can also be provided to temporarily solve some housing problem until a more adequate housing is provided. Another particular problem seems to me to be the problem of an extremely high number of children in a particular family. Sometimes it's a ten-member family. And according to the criteria, it is extremely difficult to provide a rental apartment, or a space that would be sufficient for all the criteria, and such a family could reach a suitable home. In these cases, too, the housing law should certainly provide for more efficient solutions and, above all, resources so that we can also have such housing in stock, which would then be suitable for extremely large families. Houses are also one of those unsaved. We have tried to resolve this problem with a concrete law in the previous term and also with the amendment to the law on the conclusion of denationalisation. The case was not successfully resolved because the proposals were not accepted. At this point, the Ministry of the Environment should approach the preparation of an appropriate law in order to equalise housing and allow everyone equal access to housing rights. With regard to other issues, of course, I think it is extremely important, however, because this is not in the conclusions and proposals in the report that we should still not forget the problem of tenants in denationalised apartments. This is still a living problem that remains, and it should be re-examined in order to arrive at a solution as soon as possible that would be appropriate for both the owner of this apartment and the tenant. Above all, I would like to point out the problem at this point, when the beneficiary has received a returned facility in nature, there is no resident in this facility, and for the time that this facility cannot be used today requires compensation in accordance with the Denationalisation Act. If, of course, such an owner does not have any desire to provide future housing in this facility, I think he is unjustifiable to this compensation, or if this compensation is paid, it is part of the purchase provided by either the municipality or the state in order to actually build an adequate apartment in the future in these same areas. This area is also one of those that has come to the fore in the process of denationalisation and on the plan, and I think that these cases should also be dealt with separately in the housing law, which I think should be prepared and written down in the appropriate solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u347	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u348	Thank you very much. As it has already been said today, the point of the Ombudsman's report, as said by colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler, is the lesson of all Members and Members, I wish these lessons to be as useful and effective as possible. It's not a coincidence I'm talking about this. Let me quote one of the quotations at one of the meetings of the National Assembly this year. It also refers to the attention of the Ombudsman. I'm talking about an enemy speech that is unfortunately also present in the National Assembly. I quote, "...that's why I say they're speculators, and they're terrible speculators." The Ombudsman's report is extremely extensive, but every year or several years, a problem of human rights violations appears to be as current as it may be. He spoke more about this today, colleague Kontic. As an example, let me also mention my case, which I have detected: the lower leg of the highway. I am not sure that in this case the human rights of those people who in public have been given much talk about being the main obstacles, the main culprits for continuing construction, or whether there has really been something else in the background and human rights have been violated. In local communities, however, it is also extremely important to take account of Agenda 22 in order for municipalities to implement the policy of disabled persons in municipalities together with disabled organisations. And in order to become congregations of disabled persons, appropriate care for the solution now, regrettably, of inadequate institutional protection for the younger disabled, whose needs are different. Of course, it is important to balance the possibilities of disabled people. I will vote in favour of the Commission's recommendations for petitions and human rights. But I also welcome all of today's debates, of course without a hostile speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u349	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Breda Pecan's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u350	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to draw attention to the issues raised in the Ombudsman's report on the phenomenon of intolerance and hate speech towards religious communities, in particular to religious communities that do not fall within the framework of our largest religious community in Slovenia. Here I would point out that the Ombudsman could be pleased to note that the problem of the construction of the mosque in Ljubljana is finally resolved, despite the very impatient opposition of many political actors in the municipal council of Ljubljana. In addition, I would point out that these intolerances about religious affiliation, as well as ethnicity, with regard to the origin of individual groups, are increasingly occurring on the global Internet. In this regard, there are no real reactions by the authorities that should pursue such manifestations of intolerance and hate speech on the basis of official duty. Not to mention that even individual authorities, I will say in concrete terms, even some in local communities simply avoid taking any action or even correcting themselves in doing so. I think that, in particular, the state prosecutor's office, which may be familiar with the appearance of hate speech every day from the media, or from the writing of the media or, as I have already said, from various websites where even the public approval of the Nazi and fascist treatment of Jews, Roma and the call for similar methods to be used in relation to the "deleted" and so on. The fact that the Attorney General, in response to the Ombudsman's report, says that this is inappropriate and that it is not their duty to pursue such phenomena on an official basis, I think this has already led to an absurd situation. In any way, I am joining all those who have expressed all the praises to the Office of the Ombudsman and I wish that next year the report would be more satisfactory because of changes within the individual law enforcement bodies, especially the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, or that the Office could find that things have improved significantly in at least this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u351	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u352	Thank you so much for saying that. I have already said most of the things about the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Since I've only got a minute and 12 seconds left, I'd just like to say the following. Today, largely from the coalition MPs coming from the SD, much has been said about how this institution, which we are in today, is losing credibility and how this institution is also losing credibility. However, it is likely that the same Members who spoke about this did not ask themselves why. And if I come from my own experience with petitions on the Commission, I can say that this is true. The meetings are convened by the presidents, but I am not the only case, and colleague Gorenak has had this experience. He walks around the offices of the National Assembly, pressures the staff of the National Assembly to convene meetings, as the guardian might say more about it, as it is obvious that the mobile phone is present in this institution. Earlier, colleague Friday said that some who had called this meeting had also cried because they had to invoke under pressure something they had imagined in the coalition party of the Social Democrats. And one more thing, my colleague Yuri said earlier about Zawgai and Ertle. However, I believe that the Ombudsman can also answer such a question, even though it is political.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u353	Ma'am mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u354	Thank you for your word. Dear Mrs. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik! The praises you have listened to are, on the one hand, to embarrass me, because the Ombudsman should actually be critical in his work and not expect commendation because he criticizes. But these are praises for the work done. However, I think that the future needs to be ensured that the Ombudsman is reached by all those who are affected by injustice. And once we figure out that these typical problems are as small as possible, we'll do [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Any of the government's representatives want a word? Here you go. Mrs. Bukovec, Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u356	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to respond to the part concerning our ministry. These included farmers' pensions, how low they were. Reform is being prepared in this regard, and matters will also be settled in this part. However, I must say that they are so low because contributions have not been paid over the years. As for the second, the Member referred to life in a clean environment or the need for monitoring. In this regard, I must say that we are committed to implementing or ensuring the same level of protection of animal and human health in the field of safe food. And in this area, we also plan extensive monitoring and coordinated measures throughout the food chain, which we call from field to table. This includes veterinary and phytosanitary control and food trafficking, then control in food production and processing, feed and others. As far as the spatial plans and delays in this area and the inconvenientities of the municipalities are concerned, I must say that this year's ministry has greatly strengthened its human resources, with three of us now going to nine professional colleagues working in this area. In fact, this year there were an extremely large number of congregations, almost 400. Let me say that one of the roles of the congregation is thoroughly processed by a professional associate for a week. This is an extremely extensive work in this area, which we have been overcoming or answering in recent months in time for questions or answers to the congregations. We're working really fast. We are working in this way with the Ministry of the Environment. Both ministers, both our Dr. Milan Pogačnik and the Minister of the Environment, are solving open professional issues. I also believe that cooperation with the municipalities is taking place. Any congregation that wants to come to an interview has this opportunity. This certainly makes the situation much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Since human rights are also an important right to a reasonable worker and because today, honourable Members and Members, there is still a vote on important issues and, given the long debate, it will be late at night, allow me to promise you, only on behalf of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that we will respect everything you have said today in this debate. The current government, not only does it care very much that it eliminates human rights violations, but with respect for the Ombudsman's institution, it will show it that it is important that citizens and citizens do not experience problems in the country's procedures to the extent that they do not trust in the future at least a little more institutions that are obliged to protect their rights. In our work, I hope that when the 2009 report is prepared in 2010, we will report on our work and the desire to remedy the violations that the Ombudsman will detect for 2009, which will be the first year of the government's operation. Thank you to the Ombudsman, and thank you to the Members and Members. What you said today will be an important landmark for the government in its further work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u359	Anyone else want a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Madam Guardian of Human Rights, would you like a word? Here you go. Mr Member, I remind you that there is no time for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u360	We've still got [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u361	We're done with the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u362	We've got 12 minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u363	We have concluded the debate. Here you go, Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u364	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, who have insisted on this long-standing hard worker and have brought the debate on the Ombudsman's Report to a point where I may comment on what you have said. I'm aware of the late hours, but this is my only opportunity in the National Assembly to say any more opinions or opinions and allow me to take advantage of this time. Maybe it'll be shorter, but still. With regard to the views of the SDS on the alleged non-responsibility of the Ombudsman on certain current topics, in particular those politically motivated, I would like to clarify that I do not deliberately advertise myself in public when I am expected or even required to be defined by those who are not or cannot be the subject of the Ombudsman's treatment under the Ombudsman Act. Article 4 of this Act states that the Ombudsman is independent and independent in his work, and therefore it is difficult to understand the requirement when independence and independence are expected from the Ombudsman in the same breath, while at the same time requiring a definition of highly political topics. What is policy and how to understand it in the context of the protection of human rights has been well explained in his report by the first Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia mag. Ivan Bizjak, whose political definition was known during his term of office. The concept of policy has been precisely defined and written "that in this difficult relationship between the Ombudsman and politics it is important that the Ombudsman has a fundamental purpose before his eyes, this is the solution to the problem. The Ombudsman may be the ally of responsible and susceptible authorities who look into the intestines of their operation." That's the end of the quote, mags. Bizarre. The Ombudsman's report stems from an unworthy political position because such a report is required by the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Both I and my coworkers would like the National Assembly to respect the independence and independence of the guardian ordered by the law and also the provision that the Ombudsman does not address issues addressed by the investigating labour bodies of the National Assembly. It is precisely these provisions that aim to preserve the Ombudsman's independence and independence. However, since this is an extremely complex topic, I propose that the Commission treat it as a point of content for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and perhaps later for the National Assembly. Perhaps such a discussion would contribute to a better understanding, including in the relationship between Members and the Ombudsman. And one more thought. In cases where a certain topic opens up in the National Assembly, this means, in my view, that it is not a marginal group that does not have access to politics and the media, because the things that are happening here are increasingly interesting for the media. Now I'm going to go in the order of the debate, maybe skip something. It bothered me that Member Jelinčič came to the meeting with a copy of our report, or at least he indicated that he had not received the book. I must say that the same day that we brought the press report, we delivered 110 copies to the National Assembly and later, as much as you needed, and we will do so if you want them. I'd just mention it. And whenever the Members have expressed their wish or expressed their wish for certain information or to meet with the Ombudsman, we have realized this. We also invited the SNS Group of Members to respond personally to a public letter from the party president, who was also very critical of my personal account. Next. We believe that the Commission is likely to forward all the role of the Ombudsman for petitions. The President of the Commission can report on this, and I think she will be happy to do so. I strongly reject the Member's finding that we have not done enough in the field of children's rights. We will be pleased to present to all interested parties the details of our work in this area. I am sorry that only a few Members have been able to attend the international conference on children's rights, which took place at the beginning of October of this year and which was also attended by Commissioner Hammarberg and was also extremely surprised by participants from abroad over the conference itself and the content that we have presented outside it. Then the conclusion or suggestion that the guardian propose an amendment to the electoral law. The Ombudsman forwarded many proposals to the State Election Commission and some of them even took into account. Recently, one of the members of the electoral commission wanted one of our opinions again. Now a few words about the problem of minorities, especially Slovenians living in other countries. I would expect Members to know that the Ombudsman does not have any authority to regulate the rights of residents of other countries in other countries, even though they are Slovenians. I am also sorry that my statement against the public publication of pedophiles has been distorted. I don't have any mercy on them. I am sorry that the Member is not aware of the suffering of children who are publicly recognized as children of pedophiles. Otherwise, a very good article was published in a well-known Slovenian magazine. Interested parties may be provided with information on this article. I am afraid that Mr Majhenič has not read our report, as he would know that the issue of employees in the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions is described in detail on pages 193 and 194. Nor does it seem to know that Slovenia is a party to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment. He does not even know the law under which the Ombudsman is obliged to carry out the tasks of the State preventive mechanism and, of course, to report on these controls. The rules on accommodation options were laid down by the State itself. The Guardian warns of the human resources crisis in prisons. We're in contact with the unions, we're checking the working situation of the employees on our visits to prisons. In our report, we clearly point to the need for a high-quality and effective trial. And that's what I said today in the opening address. It would be good to listen to one of the employees who had human rights violations in the National Assembly. So far, the Ombudsman has not received any initiative. If we get it, we'll deal with it in accordance with the law. As a guardian, I am aware of the seriousness of torture and bullying in the workplace, and we are preparing a special project, together with colleagues, where we have already recognised a number of shortcomings and inefficiencies in existing legislation, which in fact does not give almost any legal certainty to victims. It's a housing issue. I have also pointed to this in today's address, not only in the annual report, so I expect that the housing law will change as soon as possible and allow those who have lost their apartment for social reasons to find the right solutions. Then, having regard to the public's comments on the drafting of legislation. I can see that the situation is improving, but we cannot yet be satisfied. But this improvement refers to this year. I would like to point out that, at the time of the drafting of the laws providing for acts under the law, we have warned that such a way is not appropriate and will lead to problems. Unfortunately, our predictions have been fully realized and, to the greatest extent, in the Law on Mental Health. I also agree with the Member who has proposed that social affairs be dealt with as a matter of priority. The Ombudsman has specifically engaged in the preparation of some of the key laws for the enforcement of health rights. Unfortunately, many suggestions and warnings from the guardian remained overheard. I have asked the Minister of Health to discuss in writing today, in which I would like to further explain to him the views of the Ombudsman on certain items in the proposal for a Health Act. I must say, the Ombudsman's influence is possible before the law comes into play. And it is clear to me that once there is a bill in the National Assembly, the Ombudsman no longer has the right to comment on it, not in any way affecting it. Unless, of course, a Member wishes to clarify a matter for his decision. I agree with Ambassador Potrić, who says that the worst violation of human rights is the one that affects human dignity. And I've warned you about this a number of times. Interestingly, the media have come up with more detailed questions to explain to them what human dignity really means. For concerning this, they do not learn about the dignity of man in any educational institution. The guilt created by the new pay system will be monitored regularly. In fact, we are already doing this, and in our findings we have already informed the Ministry of Public Administration. However, the long-term deadlines for proving injustices and correcting them fall within an area that we have written in the framework of an unacceptablely long decision-making period. I'm reading. I wrote it down. I wrote all this to myself during your debate to commend the fact that there are ministers and secretaries present at the debate. There's never been so many before. I consider that a good sign for the future. Then it's about the disabled. They're only supposed to have three to four pages. However, I would like to say that I agree with Ambassador Györek that it is a real shame that so far there has not been a reference to the issue of persons with disabilities and their financing. And I hope that this proposal will receive greater support and you will be able to speak about it. I am also convinced that we will actually be writing in this year's report on the ideas and nonsense of the editorial service. Now for Mr Gorenak's debate. I have to say that, according to my opinion, he prepared himself very well for today's debate, that I didn't say he was constructive, but he asked me if I resented him, and I didn't. And I think that in his debate he has opened up some of the very heartwarming things that we have written about, but of course all of what he has said cannot be confirmed. But the topics he was talking about are actually very hot, especially with regard to law enforcement. The conditions for carrying out health-care activities in prisons are linked to legislation, i.e. not to the goodwill of individual prison staff to decide whose prisoner the convict can or may be released before any inspection. We have found that the arbitrary conduct of the employees almost led to the death of one prisoner because his problems were not taken into account. Therefore, it is important that we monitor these things and see these irregularities as a system error, not as a mistake that we will impose on this individual employee, but as a warning that security guards should be installed in the system so that such deficiencies do not occur. However, with regard to alternative sentences, I am pleased to say that this complication was resolved this year, precisely because of the Ombudsman's intervention with the Government. The previous warnings to individual ministries were not effective enough or insufficient. But it is true that this solution has only just now begun to apply. There's something else about the area of justice. Perhaps the statistics in this report are not well displayed and have warned us about this. According to the Ombudsman's initial period of action, justice was somehow under one code. We are aware that the number of cases is then very large. In the next report, although the code is the same, we will show a separate area of justice, police and prison sentences. Next thing, the co-operation of the Guardians and Members. Once again, I invite you to direct yourself to the guardian of the people for whom you assess that the guardian might be able to help them. In this way, we will work together to solve the problems and actually show people that institutions that care about what is going on. With regard to the Law on Lawyers, we have written a draft law, critically, on page 102. But Minister Zalar and I have agreed that the Ombudsman cannot be a member of the Disciplinary Commission at the Bar Association. Ignorance of the Bar on the Ombudsman's issues is a serious problem. I must say that we are a little bit better this year, and we will also write about it, of course we get the answers, but we are not happy with them. The Ombudsman does not have the authority to oversee the Bar, in fact, the lawyers. In one part, he has a lawyer’s office, and we have talked about it, and somehow we have ensured at least basic cooperation. On the one hand, it is an independent profession of lawyer and, on the other hand, it is a matter of control over their work. And since we believe that this control is flawed, we are particularly alert to this second part. I am pleased to hear from Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler that the Ombudsman's report is a help to Members, or at least to her personally. What you need to pay special attention to in the adoption of laws is the highest recognition of our work and of the ties through which we together realize the protection of human rights. An interesting topic is the principle of Member Puksic. He was talking about people from the outskirts of Slovenia. I have to say, I do contacts with people from the periphery as a guardian in a number of ways. Formally, we visit certain individuals at home when we assess that such a visit would help clarify the case. We've left a few times, and we're leaving. We pay particular attention to environmental issues, where we really need to go to a location. And we're gone, and we will. And mayors can report on this, including mayors of small municipalities whose country rarely remembers. And we also go to the homes of the elderly citizens and also to the invitations of the municipalities and also to the invitations of the chiefs of the administrative units, where more mayors are gathered and we talk to them. I also held working meetings with representatives of minorities and the Roma community. Wherever there is a need to talk to the guardian or my associates, the deputies, we realize it as soon as possible. An analysis of which human rights laws have come from the opposition and which of the positions such analyses of the guardians cannot be made. You'll have to make it your own. But the Ombudsman does an analysis of the laws according to which rights are well protected and which are not. We are currently working on the analysis of laws relating to the regulation of children's rights. The problem of reducing the reputation of public institutions is serious. I have to agree on that. Of course, I cannot agree with everything or how you somehow remind each other, because it is to detect a rather harsh statement. I am counting that this is part of your working jargon and that this is the way I will say, after such long sessions as today, you are also maintaining a slightly higher level of energy. Mr. Miro Friday pointed out the mobbing. Yeah. What he asked, however, is how we choose to present cases in the annual report or what editorial principles are. Among all the cases that the Ombudsman has dealt with and completed by the end of the current year, we select those in which we find a violation of certain rights or show that the individual’s complaint or initiative may have been unfounded and thus show that a number of times the body has acted properly, even though the initiator has claimed otherwise. With regard to the incentive, which I do not recall because of the lack of knowledge of Hungarian language, I would like to say that we have a law on conditions of employment in bilingual services. And this law must be respected. And I am sure that the fellow Members who are representatives of minorities will be happy to explain this to you. There is also a problem of this type from the bilingual area, namely, the issue of a bilingual charter, but that was this year and we will write about it. The case of Shilih was also the last episode this year. I cannot speak publicly about the case without the permission of the initiator. All I can say is that the case will be written down and that we have sided with the family, which your family can confirm if you ask them. About the employment of graduate theologians. I don't know this case either. The initiative, I don't know if she came to our address, so I could see if she knew anything else. However, I can say that we have an employed young colleague who is a graduate theologian and has been chosen by a public invitation to tender. I must say, I was a little upset by what Ambassador Grimes said about the incident at the pre-election meeting. It made me angry, not what he said, but what happened there and the fact that it happened at all. The guardian was not aware of this event. And I don't remember any initiative coming to our address. However, I would expect the reaction of both political parties, with both political parties having relatively good access to the media. About minorities and what Ambassador Yuri said. I have already proposed several times on various occasions, including in a discussion with the President of the Republic, that the issue of all minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia should be dealt with more appropriately. I hope that this call by the National Assembly will be defined. I also talked about the inadequate status of the housing law and the solution to the housing problem in today’s introduction. I also wish that the law, which needs to be thoroughly amended, should come as soon as possible in your parliamentary bench. And look, I've come to the end of the records that were made in today's debate, and it's over. I give myself these five minutes for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u365	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 21:00 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u366	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen. Before we go to the votes of the National Assembly on the proposals for decisions, we are moving on to the CLAIMS OF THE CANDIAT COMPOSITION IN ACCORDANCE WITH 17. A member of the Law on Love in the National Assembly becomes a messenger for the remainder of the period of office instead of a messenger who was given the mandate. Having terminated the mandate of Damian Pernet, the State Election Commission forwarded to the assembly the finding that the Member's mandate had been transferred to Alojzi Potočnik. It was examined by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which also gave written reports to the National Assembly. You received the report on the bench. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? The mandate-election committee, does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want a word? [[They don't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote of Members and Members. Please check the operation of your voting device. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the delegation of Aloyzi Potočnik, born 11. 6. 1951, with permanent residence in Kranj, 16th Street. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I wish my fellow Potočnik a successful work in the parliamentary benches. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Chambers. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly should vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 28 to 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. The amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 3 and 4. In the event that this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 3 and 4 are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 to 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. No amendments were adopted for the second reading of the amended proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u367	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not support amendments to the Capital Act adopted in 2004 and properly regulate the relationship between the city and the country. This law brings nothing by content. As a result, the Ljubljanaers will not breathe any cleaner air, it will not regulate traffic in the city, and it will not settle any other issue that will make it possible to raise quality life in the city. On the other hand, the law brings an outflow from the state budget in one part to an undetermined amount, as this will be the subject of an agreement between the Prime Minister and the current mayor, and in the other part approximately EUR 15 million per year. In this second part, it provides an outflow to provide conditions for the work of diplomatic consular offices and administrative bodies, of which we know that it has neither the city nor the municipality of any jurisdiction. This arrangement is unique. No other country is aware of such arrangements. However, as we know now in the capital law, many countries know. On the other hand, it should be asked whether it is right for a certain congregation to co-finance in a specific way the needs that are regulated everywhere in all other congregations on the basis of such or other invitations. Is it right for the richest municipality in the country to receive funds to regulate kindergarten, school, infrastructure protection, etc. by way of invitations to tender? That's probably not right. In Ljubljana there are many institutions, representations of state authorities, ministries and so on, all of which are advantages and not weaknesses. This environment is one of the most developed environments in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore these additional resources will not contribute to anything. In only one part, they will reduce this budget gap, which has been managed by the current mayor from around €57 million at the start of his mandate to raise to about €200 million. Of course, nothing will change in the content. The activities that have taken place in recent days, when purchased by the state of property, which are publicly good, the fusion castle for 15 million euros, are already somehow a prerequisite for what will happen under this law. It's something like if a country buys a road from the city that runs through a tunnel. These are unreasonable decisions that do not lead to Ljubljana developing faster and that it will take place those activities that are in the interest of both those who live here and the whole country. For this reason, we will not support this law's parliamentary group or amendments to the law, because, as I have said, it is not about changing the law on the capital, but about the law on payment of pre-election promises to Mr Jankovic from the taxpayer's funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u368	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the first amendment of the SLS Group to chapter eight. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Mags. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will certainly support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party. This amendment brings the key part of the text of the resolution back to its original state, as it was written in the basic version of this resolution. In this part it is very clear that Slovenia does not want gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. By means of the amendments, this text of chapter 7 or of chapter 8 was amended so that the doors for the construction of potential gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets are locked. Therefore, under certain conditions the construction of such terminals is possible. It is now up to us to decide whether we are not going to have terminals in the Gulf of Markets under any conditions, both on our side and, of course, give an appropriate signal to our neighbours, or consciously decide that we will have such terminals in the future in the Gulf of Markets. Well, it's up to us. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that such terminals are not appropriate at this end, so we will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Does any other parliamentary group want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u371	Thank you, Mr. President. I will strongly support this amendment, because the very situation around this chapter of the resolution has convinced me that it is important and even crucial. I thought that the resolution was also good with a compromise formulation, but this amendment would be a hundred percent better and clear. And that is precisely the clarity of many people's minds because they believe that in that compromise form it would actually be possible to interpret the whole resolution or that part, that chapter differently. Well, I'll vote for the amendment. If colleagues feel that there is no significant difference between the two formulations, I do not think it is a question whether we support or not to support this amendment. Why not support it if it gives added value to clarity? So I hope that this text will be the same as it was at the beginning. When we took part in the press conference, representatives of the coalition, we had a text with this text before the press, and when we announced the resolution, the resolution was this. And with this amendment, that text comes back. Everything else is a strange game.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u373	I would like to correct, I think I can give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I would also like to say that this resolution has not been tabled by the coalition but has been tabled by four Members. Thus, the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the amendment and the resolution if the amendment is not adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment of the SLS Group, as this brings back the original text of the resolution on which the coalition was coordinated. Then came the president's amendment to the Committee on Environment and Space, and we were never in line to not support the SLS amendment. And if we are actually against the gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, we must not be disturbed by an amendment that accurately says that it is the Gulf of Markets and does not talk about narrow densely populated bays. If we are actually against the gas terminals, we will easily support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. This is not only about the Primors who live there, it is about our sea, it is all about Slovenia, because at the moment the children on the Fat Rite are safe and in a healthy environment. Many of them can only afford the sea through the Red Cross on the Fat Rtice, and we must also think of them. And if the government has a clear position, as we have heard before, and a well-known position, if the government has one, let us make it clear. That's why I support the SLS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u376	Thank you very much. I vote. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 26. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. We move on to a motion for a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy as a whole [[...]] [[May I have peace in the hall?]] In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. [[...]] Procedurally, please, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u377	Mr President, I ask for a 10-minute recess before the vote, and they can still use 10 minutes to laugh, that is half the health.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u378	I'm asking for some concentration in the hall. It is true that it is approaching the end of the year, that it is an overcrowding mood. First, we'll finish and finish the explanations. He wants to explain his voice to one of the parliamentary groups? He doesn't want to. Do they want to explain the voice of the Member or Members? I see the hand of Franz Yuri. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u379	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased that today we will vote on the resolution that some Members have written down and proposed to the public and the National Assembly. The resolution is now in its original form, so there is no reason to doubt the content of this resolution and, of course, I will definitely support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? First, please, Franci Kek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u381	Thank you for your word. I will support the resolution and I think that anything other than support for this resolution - can each one's own thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u383	Thank you very much. I will also give the resolution a "yes". The basic idea and strategy is certainly good and positive, the northern part of the Adriatic must be protected and protected, but in old practice we do not need to take this moment too much, because we do not decide on terminals today on the energy supply of Slovenia, but on the protection of the northern Adriatic, and this resolution, as it is, makes possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. That's why I'm concluding my explanations. I'm interrupting the session for five minutes, and we're going to continue with Prej saying five, and now he's fixing it to five. [[...]] We'll continue at 22 and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u385	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. Does Mr. Contic want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We are moving on to a full decision on the resolution. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 28th item of the agenda - dealing with the 14th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the 14th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2008. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our parliamentary group will not participate in the vote on the recommendation to the Ombudsman's report, because you have come in an inappropriate and unacceptable manner to address this point. What happened was that, in dealing with the working body, it was only to correct the mistakes of the coalition in dealing with it and, above all, to vote on the working body. We will also be obstructed because there is no respect for the agreement when it is agreed, even in the presence of the President of the National Assembly, on the Rules of Procedure Commission, in order to first clarify all procedural matters concerning these complications concerning the report of the Ombudsman. However, despite all three coalition members, members of the Commission, made a request for an urgent meeting of the Committee and then, within minutes of the conclusion of the regular meeting, in a conspirative manner, as has been the case for a period of time, also called on it, with pressure on employees in the working body, as well as on the cooperation of the staff of the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. In short, it was some kind of reference structure. No reference was made to the appeal by the President of the Commission for petitions and no members of the Commission were invited to the meeting for petitions from the opposition. In short, everything that has happened has happened as the coalition has done, quietly, beyond the rules of procedure, even past the agreements, in a cooperative way. The decisions that have been taken have also been made practically without discussion and without the opposition's participation. This is why we will not participate in the vote on these recommendations and forecast obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u387	Thank you very much. I would like to add that there are no business uncertainties. By way of explanation from the Commission for Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. 2005 it is clear that on the question whether the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities can re-examine the Special Report of the Ombudsman, although the debate has been concluded and the vote taken - the answer is simple: it must, until it adopts the recommendation. I note that the SDS Group has announced, in accordance with Article 65(2), that there is no vote on this item on the agenda. Victory, Jelinčič, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u388	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Despite the fact that the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group does not have its own member on the Commission for Petitions and so on, because we have only five Members, we cannot participate on all working bodies - yet. In view of what is going on in this committee, how this Commission is being led, how the rules of procedure on this committee are being misused, how it is directed towards confirming what is being determined and decided by the coalition, I think we simply have to protest. It is also a fact that the case or document presented by the Ombudsman does not correspond to the actual situation, does not protect or defend the rights of the majority people, but protects and defends the rights of certain marginals of that or other kind. It is our view that the Ombudsman must be the one who will protect the integrity of the Slovenian people and of Slovenian citizens and those who respect the laws, those who pay taxes and those who are so-called, as Mr Pahor would say, "candient cytizens". I do not think that this way we should be allowed to accept documents that are not in fact different from reports, who all came there and what the problem was, of course, only by letting go of the name and surname. This is not the work of the Ombudsman and we will not participate in such a vote. I'm announcing the obstruction of the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Once again, I note that all the business procedural rules have been clarified and without a dilemma, and I note that the SNS Group has announced the obstruction, the absence of a vote at this point, in accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, second paragraph. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. On behalf of the President, the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. At the end of the day, this is on the confirmation of the official cleared text of the Wage System Act in the public sector. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Public Sector Wage System Act is confirmed." We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. It's a day's work, it's a mental-loving thing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members or members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia, the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a Vice-President of the National Election Commission, the Proposal for a Decision amending the decisions on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the three Boards of Inquiry and the conclusion of the termination of the President of the National Assembly Working Body. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 1 December 2009, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that a mag. Jadranka Sovdat. Does the representative of the proposer wish to further explain the proposal? Please, Dr. Erik Kerševan, Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u390	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The election of a new Constitutional Judge is undoubtedly an event of exceptional importance. The successful election of a Constitutional Court judge in the National Assembly is an important message that a democratic and legal state works well. The election of a constitutional judge is not a political project, but is an expression of confidence in a particular legal expert by our country's highest authorities in order to carry out its work professionally, in a committed and, above all, fair or fair manner. The Constitutional Judge must be, above all, a just judge. It must promote the most fundamental of all legal values, equality, freedom and human dignity. By its decisions, the Constitutional Court must therefore give everyone the opportunity and the opportunity to freely pursue their life objectives in the context of respect for human rights. The Constitutional Judge, as one of the highest judges in the country, is bound only by the Constitution, i.e. at least by formal rules, but bears the most responsibility for his work. That is why his personality is also important in addition to the expertise of the Constitutional Judge. The proposed candidate for the Constitutional Judge of Mags. Jadranka Sovdat is undoubtedly a recognised expert in the field of constitutional law. Moreover, by her personality, she confirmed her commitment to work, respect for fundamental values and human rights, and consistency in their realization. Her advocacy for justice and a just solution is known to a wide range of legal and other experts. It is therefore very important and encouraging that the candidates have already expressed their support in the process for all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. This shows the recognition of the candidate’s competence and personality and also shows the possibility that, with mutual respect between institutions, open dialogue and respect for the word, challenging procedures can also lead to a successful conclusion. It also points to the problems faced by the Constitutional Court, where, due to the abundance of cases, among them a lot of bureaucratic and unnecessary work, the Constitutional Court is burdened with ensuring constitutionality in the Republic of Slovenia. Only the greatest commitment of constitutional judges and other employees in the Constitutional Court still ensures effective protection of constitutional rights, but that situation needs to be improved as soon as possible by adopting the necessary constitutional changes that are already in preparation. These will also provide the Constitutional Court with a future opportunity to work more effectively and to decide on adopted constitutional initiatives and complaints within a reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u391	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is delivered by Jože Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u392	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. On 25 November, the parliamentary group held a discussion with the candidate, and on the basis of the discussion, we assessed her as a mag in the parliamentary group. Jadranka Sovdat is eligible as a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court. The parliamentary group will support the candidate in the secret ballot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u393	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u394	Thank you very much. The Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges are an extremely important constitutional category. We know that the Constitutional Court is the supreme branch of the judiciary. You know that we have been relatively dissatisfied with ourselves on many occasions this year, in particular on 5 May, with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the representative of the proposer said extremely nicely, and I will refer to him, he said that somehow they are not a political category, which we can very deeply agree on. It is true, however, that the history of this National Assembly and the decisions of the National Assembly in history are not the same. The National Assembly was also able to bring the former President of the political party to the Constitutional Court - of course I am talking about Mr Ribič. Surely the Constitutional Judges are bound only by the Constitution, but in the political workforce that we have witnessed in the past, the situation is clear that the Constitutional Judge is also bound by personal values. However, if personal values are unduly linked to a political party that belonged to it or even presided over it in the past, it is likely that it can also put it in this direction. I am pleased that the candidate is not such that the candidate is a professional representative - she convinced us too - and I believe she will do her job very properly, and I believe that it will contribute to the balance of the Constitutional Court. The current composition or even composition of the Constitutional Court was the recruitment in line with the political will of the National Assembly, which was mostly years after independence, I am talking about most years after independence, but the left political option. It is no wonder, therefore, that we are often dissatisfied with their decisions, because they simply "drive too much on the left", I would say. I believe that the judge, the candidate Mrs Sovdat, will be one of those who will make an important contribution to receiving more balanced decisions from the Constitutional Court in the future, more deliberate decisions from the Constitutional Court and not from the ones we have experienced on 5 May, when unfortunately they have not done much more than copy-paste variant of Minister Zalar. Her expertise is likely to contribute to this, and the possibility of conversation was, and it is right to confirm it. Sam, of course, I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u395	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič, SD, Robert Hrovat, SDS, Franci Kek, Zares, and Guido Kres, SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are going to make a decision in such a commission. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly defined. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for her, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will be placed in the ballot box, which will be on the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament who will assist me in the vote, please report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 22.40 p.m. and will last until 22.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 23.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u396	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We continue the session and the adjournment of the 33.A item, this is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Sailors of the Sovdat. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 17 December 2009. 77 ballots were distributed, 77 votes were cast, no votes invalid, 77 votes valid. 74 Members and Members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. By a majority of the votes of all Members elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, Mag. Jadranka Sovdat, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u397	Your Honor! I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u398	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u399	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! I thank you for your confidence. I will be faithful to the oath I made before this high assembly. Allow me to wish you happy holidays on this occasion, and in the year ahead, I wish you enough political wisdom to make good decisions. However, I also wish you health and personal happiness in the circle of your families and friends. Good luck! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u400	Thank you for all of us. Congratulations to the judges and I want a successful job! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which Dr. Timotej Jagrič can discharge the functions of Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The discharge shall take effect from the date of adoption of this Decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members or members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Next move, you're standing by a group of MPs. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. He's quitting. Jože Tanko has the word on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u401	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Among the 29 proposals that came in time, we believe it was our ability to select a better team. Regrettably, the coalition has chosen from this selection highly politically oriented persons who will find it difficult to represent the interests of the public, the audience, the interests of the plural society and, of course, the public interest, and their work will likely be focused primarily on the implementation of strong political views. This choice certainly represents a strong step towards politicisation of the public broadcasting service and also paves the way for political takeover in radio television, and it is likely that this selection of new members of the programme board will also give professional support to the incomprehensible solutions brought by Shirca's novel of the broadcasting law, which they have already distributed at all levels considered. We can also expect political regulation or political pressure, including political orientation and pressure on the third programme, or perhaps even people will be sought for its abolition. This will probably not prevent a retrospective of the press achievements of the current minister, which we have seen several times on this programme. Now, if we just take a brief look at which personnel were chosen from among the audiences and audiences: Alexander Bassin was mentioned as an SD candidate for the Minister of Culture. For example, Mojca Shebart Kovac was either a candidate for the LDS for the school secretary. Among the candidates we love today is Sergei Pelhan, former Minister of Culture. There are also some signatories, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u402	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u403	In short, we are talking about the majority of these proposals being members of the SD and the Liberal Democracy, as well as former members of the KSF. [[...]] In short, audiences and viewers have proposed highly politically oriented, politically colored candidates to represent their interests. I must be honest with you that in the Group of Members we oppose the majority of the candidates selected by the Commission of Commissioners from this quota, because when we read these names, we do not detect civilians either, but it is a politically highly targeted, sophisticated and carefully chosen selection, and it is a red-coloured one. We will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u404	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Following the debate of Members and Members, the word shall be cancelled; Franco Juri shall be cancelled. [[...]] Franz Pukšič, please, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u405	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, president. I will not give up the debate, for one simple reason, as has already been said - the coalition has a majority and has been able to make the majority decision, and among the 29 candidates it chose the 8 which it thought was the most right. So it is in democracy and the coalition has this opportunity and also takes responsibility. However, I cannot believe that it is possible in democracy to make the opposition subject to a ballot. I myself replaced the fellow Member Jacob the Presecnik on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and when I got into the hands of a ballot on which it was a public vote, because, of course, there were 29 candidates, it was written a letter, it was written on a letter, although I replaced it with, "Jakob the Presecnik". So, Franc Pukšič is not Jakob Presect and Jakob Presectnik is not Franc Pukšič. But Franz Pukšič replaced Jakob the Intercessor. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] Well, when I found that out, so, you fixed it, you crossed it out, and you wrote it the right way, and you took your voice into your hands, I saw that someone in the coalition had already surrounded me with two candidates. [[...]] Well, and since that's true on the voice mail, I can show it to you. When I protested with the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, he demanded that I return this ballot, but it was precisely because I could prove credible and show what had happened that I did not return it, and then I received a second, blank, so clean, not a pre-encircled voice. So there were already two candidates on this ballot under order number 1 and order number 3. Those who did or did so did not have enough to at least apologize for the act. In short, this does not seem democratic to me, and it does not seem to me that those who are filled with the mouth are just learning and talking about how someone else and some others do not work and do not work democratically.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u406	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Is it a matter of procedure, Mr. Saiovic? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Well, I must say, because I was the chairman of this committee, who voted that the error was immediately observed, the Member is concerned about the reasons, but I must say that he had great difficulties in understanding the relatively simple voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u408	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that appoints Alexander Bassin, Gojko Bervar, Peter Geršič, Dr. Mojca Kovac Šebart, Dr. Tonček Kregar, Sergij Pelhan, Dr. Anton Ploj and Peter Rudl as members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 17, of the RTV Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if it is voted for by the majority of the members of the National Assembly, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 20. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was accompanied by a mandate-holder committee for the consideration of the meeting. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act: Matevž Caserman, Dr. Peter Pavel Klasinc, Dr. Jernej Pikalo, Igor Vidmar and Vlado Vrbič. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is Jože Tanko SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u409	Thank you so much for your kindness. For everyone's explanation, that mistake was made earlier by Mrs. Pukšič [[.....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's okay. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u410	Peace in the hall and no comments from the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u411	Here we have the second part or appointment of the Radiotelevision Supervisory Board. After receiving the material we received on the parliamentary bench, we found that the structure of the Supervisory Committee, as envisaged, was not in line with the law, because the MPs in the National Assembly were not represented in accordance with the law, and the relationship between the coalition and the opposition was damaged in this supervisory work. We have also addressed a letter to the President of the Election Commission proposing that this appointment process should be changed and we have proposed that this item withdraw from the agenda and that a new deadline should be set for the sending groups and that at the same time the Social Democrats' Group or any other coalition should withdraw one of the monitoring committees of the Radio Television. Although sufficient time has been available and an internal call has been made to the parliamentary groups, the majority of the Commission's mandate-holders have decided not to extend the deadline and will not take this proposal into account. We have thus come up with a proposal that is particularly detrimental to opposition groups or opposition parties. It is especially surprising to see the stiffness of the coalition, as well as the stiffness of the coalition. It is only necessary to say here that the President of the Mandate-Election Commission and his parliamentary group have taken the lead in this regard, and this proposal has not been supported by our Group of Members. That is why we are not going to support this proposal, because, despite the possibility of correction, there was still a possibility that this matter could be settled at this meeting today, the coalition did not agree to this change in time frame and any proposal. In short, the proposal does not comply with the law, so we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u412	Thank you very much. The word is Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u413	Thank you for your word. I'd give up, but given that I've got a valuable judgment that I'm one and a half, I'm going to try to explain the matter in a simple and softer way. This is one of the examples of how things are done conscientiously or conscientiously within the National Assembly, especially in the parliamentary groups that are taking certain things with their left hand or simply do not wish to do things. In fact, we adopted the calendar on the Mandate-Election Commission for the proposed candidates and candidates to the Supervisory Committee on 15 October 2009, which is more than two months ago. The deadline for submitting proposals was 12 November 2009. On 26 November, a meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission was convened at which we considered this proposal, which was held on 10 December. And look at the fraction! The SDS Group shall come with a proposal to withdraw five minutes before the twelfth, one day before the meeting, 10th, and the SLS Group shall come with a proposal at 12.35, which shall be due after the deadline for the submission of additional proposals or the amendment of the agenda. Once again, dear fellows, this may be a good enough lesson and a lesson that next time you have to carry out your duties, which require you to sit in the National Assembly and be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u414	Thank you very much. Franco Yuri has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u415	Thank you very much. At the appointment of five members of the RTV Supervisory Board, Slovenia said exactly what the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission said, as far as the deadlines were concerned. That's what we said there, and we confessed, and we also said "mea maxima culpa." But whether this is worse and if the coalition would like to respect Article 26, which states that the National Assembly appoints five members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. They have taken into account the representation of political parties, but only coalition parties. In this case, the ratio is 80 to 20. If we had also taken into account what we missed, however, if we wanted to, you could take this into account, because this deadline is the time that was agreed within a group and-or, or nothing would have been wrong with that until today, until this hearing in the National Assembly, we could have made up for it, or that day, if we wanted to. However, the ruling coalition, as colleague Tanko said, by leading in this direction that this does not happen, by the chairman of the committee and other SD members is nicely said to be incorrect. But it's not true that I had any problems with a voice like that or any other. True, some have experience in falsifying results.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter. But, please, procedural proposal, Mr Sayovic has not given it before and has broken the rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u417	Mr. President. I'm gonna break the rules, but I want you to let me, I want you to record this explanation of the magnetogram. [[...]] Because at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the recording devices were involved at the time we voted, and they could not record my apology to Mr Puksic and my recognition of my error. But, Mr. Puksic got a new vote sheet, he could have expressed his will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u418	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u419	And he was wrong on that list. [[...]] But I never claimed to be infallible. I admitted my mistake, apologized, and thank you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u420	Thank you. That's a violation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u421	that this is now recorded by a magnetogram [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u422	the rules of procedure. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u423	Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u424	But I would ask you not to remind me of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, but I do, especially those who, on their own, like to violate too many. Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How nervous about one apology; but well, that's an integral part. See, what was said in appointing members of the RTV Supervisory Board, those appointed by the National Assembly, of course, is not entirely true. Article 26 defines the composition of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, i.e. the RTV Act, states: "that the National Assembly appoints five members, taking into account the representation of political parties", and otherwise could not act as all those who were proposed were proposed by the parliamentary groups within the time limit prescribed for that purpose. So, five candidates were proposed, five candidates were named, and five candidates were appointed to the Mandate-Election Commission. There has been no confusion and nothing special about this vote. However, it is not possible to talk about the relative representation of political parties, because this is not in the law and it would be very difficult for political parties to make a proportional representation because there are too few cities in the National Assembly if all parties wanted representation in the RTV Supervisory Council. Another story that's just as important. This law does not state that the relationship between the opposition and the coalition must be because this relationship does not exist and has not been taken into account in the previous composition of the Supervisory Council and could not be taken into account because it is not actually recorded. But most importantly, we had to propose candidates, and we proposed five, as much as they were called. So, subsequently, when the deadline expired, it was found that maybe someone else could propose a candidate, of course, if we agreed on the Mandate-Election Commission to repeat the procedure. It's like someone came to the elections on Monday, and the elections were on Sunday. It would be hard to change the election score. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u426	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orazem - cancels, no, the flower of Zalokar Orazem? [[...]] He's quitting. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia Anton Horvatič, Miha Klun, Marko Laznik, Amalija Lukner and Mag. Lenart Šetinc. Would you like, Mr. Chernač, procedurally or would you like an explanation of vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know why you have such a problem giving me your word. I'm not gonna say anything catastrophic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u428	I am very happy to give you my word and no problem. You've got it and you've got it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u429	I will simply say that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will not support this decision for reasons already explained. The representation of political parties and the relationship in the National Assembly is not 4:1, but it is 3:2 and so this supervisory council should also be composed. While we have already talked about the opportunities the opposition had in the previous term, it is likely that the previous opposition has been explicitly invited to participate and participate in a number of supervisory councils of all public societies in which the state has its share, and this right has also been fully exploited, which is a democratic standard that would apply in this mandate, especially in the fact that the law has not changed in any way at that time. This composition, which was confirmed on the Commission’s mandate, does not follow the provisions of the law and is contrary to the provisions of the law, since 4 : 1 is not a composition which is in accordance with the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. For this reason, the Group of Members cannot support such a decision. However, the additional reason is that it is unacceptable for some of the half-filled votes to take place in advance, which also shows how these matters take place in this mandate, when the SD, LDS and Zares rule us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that this decision should be changed because it does not contribute to the implementation of democratic standards, especially in the public institution of RTV Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u430	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Within the SD Group of Members, Dusan Kumer. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] two explanations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u431	It's hard for me to land there. Thank you for your word, Mr. President! I'd like to repeat it again for the public and also for some here, including my forerunner. Now or she really doesn't know or doesn't want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u432	No arguments, please. There is no doubt in the explanation of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u433	I said because of the credibility and credibility of what we are discussing today. Article 26 of the RTV Act states, and differs from those proposed by the five in the Programme Council, I can also read Article 17, but I will read Article 26: "Proposals of candidates for five members or members of the Supervisory Council of RTV Slovenia appointed as the National Assembly, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly." When a public call was opened on 15 October by 12 November, the delegations proposed. There were only five proposals. Why did only five proposals come, why did not eight come? I said earlier: because of the unknown operation and functioning, in my opinion, of the parliamentary groups that came forward - not after November 12th until November 26th, before we convened the meeting for December 10th, but December 9th - five before the 12th. Please! The proposal came on 9 December at 13.35 and 12.34 respectively. So, after the deadline when you can invest for the next day for the session. Tao is all the conditions - legitimately, a proposal that we have adopted on the Mandate-Election Commission has been legally created and I suggest that we do not talk here about a proposal that is not within the scope of the RTV law that does not meet the conditions of the law and the criteria on RTV. It's just not true, it's fiction and it's a lie! And it's nothing else. So once again, fellows, I ask you that this should be a lesson for the second time, that things need to be taken seriously in these matters. It would be nice if there were eight proposals, because I don't even know why there were only five proposals for eight of them. I don't know why. But no one complains there.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u434	Thank you very much. Franc Pukšič on his own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their vote? He doesn't want to. Franz Pukšič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u435	I said that on behalf of the Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u436	It may, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u437	President, I understand you, it's a long day, and there's no planning in this house. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u438	Dear colleague Pukšič without compassion, there is no need [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u439	and I understand you, and I do not blame you, so I am compassionate, because I am of the farmers of the Slovenian mountains at home. [[...]] [[...]] If I was from somewhere else, I probably wouldn't be. The Slovenian People's Party to this Decision appointing five members of the RTV Supervisory Board will not support this decision. Some say that some lies have been wasted in the debate, and I say that is not the case. The deadline set is simply a simple business term. Colleagues and colleagues, if they wanted to, could take that into account. As stated in Article 26, it is true that it says'representation of political parties', but the only god in here is the SD, which decides which political parties will be represented, and they have taken this right. To talk about late - we said, but if we wanted to, we could take that into account. So we're not saying that we didn't miss the business deadline, we missed it, but if KVIAZ wanted to, I could accept it and sort things out. By the way, did you forget that a judge named Šubic, who was supposed to write a verdict in 15 days, forgot about it or didn't write it in 9 months? And those two who were convicted then for five years and some other years did not serve a single second in prison. But they brought our Elan back to where he is today - that is, to the bottom of what he did not deserve. So talking so much about this business term, being so smart, it's just no connection. It is true, then, that you are the ones who will decide and determine which political parties will be represented. That's how you've been working on all the KVIAZs, even when the opposition has given enough candidates, even then you didn't take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u440	Thank you very much. Please, Jože Tanko, explain your voice on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u441	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal that we have submitted to the Mandate-Election Commission for the withdrawal of this item has been forwarded to this decision from the agenda within the time limit. Mr. Kumer, in business! Ten, five before twelve - in a business term. The second thing that was, was the deadline that was forwarded to the parliamentary groups, the instructional deadline, the internal deadline. And as the Mandate-Election Commission has decided to set a deadline for the submission of proposals, it could also extend the deadline for the submission of proposals, without problem, if the will were in the coalition. If we continue, this Supervisory Board has 11 members, 5 of whom are appointed by the National Assembly, 4 is appointed by the Government and 2 employees. It is said that there are 9 people politically appointed. Of these nine people, the coalition will name them 8. Far from any decent representation in the National Assembly or coalition in the National Assembly! Here we need to be warned that the structure, at least in the part where opposition proposals can be taken into account, is not adequately represented. We have pointed out this, but unfortunately the coalition roller is one who has disregarded these well-intentioned initiatives and for these reasons it is impossible for this asymmetric proposal to actually allow the political parties to be represented as much as possible in the Supervisory Committee - we cannot support it. In this part, SD has two candidates, LDS one, really one and SDS one. That's what it says, that's what this structure is and we're going to be against.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u442	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 26. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Decisions on the Resolution and Appointment of the Vice-President of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Janez Srebot as Vice-President of the State Election Commission and to call him Mag. Kobler Mountain. Provision 1 of point 1 shall apply from 3.1.2010. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the three conclusions on changing investigative commissions. If you agree, I will only read the first part of the prediction to know what it is about so that I do not read the entire text, although believe me, I can already think of all these texts. We therefore turn to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who have participated in the preparation and implementation of investments and leases, rentals or other comparable transactions financed by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We vote, the vote is on. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Committee of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who were responsible for the preparation and implementation of the count of so-called “exploded” in 2003 and 2009. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, and the members and alternates of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of clientism and the corruption of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of Gregor Golobic. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to an examination of the conclusion of the termination of the presidency of the National Assembly. Ambassador Willi Rezman resigned from the DeSUS Group of Members and the National Assembly took note of the following decision on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: First time. It is found that Ambassador William Rezman has ceased to be a member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. As a result of the termination of membership in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, William Rezman shall cease to serve as Chairman of the Committee on the Economy. Another time. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I thank William Rezman for the work done by the chairman of the committee. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow after the votes cast. I'm adjourning the 12th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00.
