ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Alenka Jeraj and Mag. Anton Rop. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 42 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order for asking questions shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask a supplementary question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Mag. Zlata Plosteiner, Minister without a license, responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, and Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first three questions, as already said, will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. Mr Franz Bogovic will first raise the question on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u2	The Honorable President. Dear colleagues. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers. Nicely greeted. In recent days, energy has been one of the most up-to-date themes, and changes in global and European markets have certainly encouraged a new provider to offer electricity to consumers on the market, which is 10% cheaper than previous offers. We have also heard a lot about the reorganisation of the Slovenian energy system in recent times, which means the maintenance of energy pillars. On the other hand, it is also clear that everything is already agreed for the final installation of a 600-megawatt thermal power plant and that more than obviously this project also needs a state guarantee in order to achieve this set objective. During this economic and financial crisis, we are seeing a significant decrease in energy prices, and consequently electricity. Slovenia's electricity supply is also significantly higher than it has been in the past, and it is estimated that only 10% to 15% of imports will be needed this year, while prices are significantly lower. We note that since last summer, when a decision on the construction of Block 6 had somehow been taken, much has changed. In addition to the above-mentioned facts, the energy and environmental package within the European Union has also been adopted. And the result of payment for CO2 quotas also means pressure on prices in the future. This raises a serious question as to whether there is a need for a thorough strategic reflection on the development of energy in the future. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you whether you agree with the following arguments: That now is an appropriate time and that prior to individual energy decisions, a strategic reflection on the further development of energy must first be drawn up within the Energy Council and written in the form of a strategic document such as a new energy programme. Secondly, we also have an open debate on this document in the National Assembly, where we talk about it and make certain decisions. Thirdly, on the basis of such a strategic document, decisions on further steps in Slovenian energy will be taken, which means that the validation of individual investment guarantees and the possible reorganisation of the Slovenian electricity system will only be carried out after the consideration and adoption of the national energy programme in the National Assembly. Experiences in recent years have given us the responsibility not to repeat some mistakes in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Pahor has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u4	Your Honor! In your question, you rightly note that energy is one of the most up-to-date social and economic themes, especially in relation to environmental issues and not least climate change. And as you yourself have said, I repeat, the economic and financial crisis in this area has not passed. Prices have fallen on the global market, which is reflected in current lower electricity prices as energy and energy prices are market-dependent and subject to fluctuation. Nevertheless, it is clear that energy needs will increase faster than production, and therefore it is wrong to believe that energy prices will remain at these low levels. Slovenia is no exception in this regard, and I, like the entire ministerial assembly, are well aware of this. That is why the government immediately began to take seriously the issues of these strategically important dilemmas. The aim is to ensure greater energy independence, greater energy independence of Slovenia. The Ministry of the Economy has already launched activities to develop a national energy programme. The drafting phase of this document, or so-called consultation document, is currently under way and will be published in the Green Paper. This will certainly be an opportunity to get to know him, polemize him and form the necessary consensus in the professional public, not least in the Strategic Council, in the Government and in the National Assembly. We will look for this consensus with all as experts, institutions, organisations, and non-governmental organisations promoting green energy. When the programme is ready - and we will make sure that it is done as soon as possible - we will coordinate it in the National Assembly, taking into account the advice of Members and Members. In your question, you also mention the decisions of the former government to build important energy facilities in the country, including projects already established by the Resolution on the National Energy Programme and the Resolution on National Development of Projects for the period 2007-2023. What I would like to say at this point is that the key advantage of Slovenian electricity production is that Slovenia has a very well-balanced electricity production according to various possible sources of energy, as it represents about a third of the energy produced, about a third of the thermoenergy and about a third of the hydropower. It is essential that Slovenia retains this advantage and therefore the following are key priorities in addition to those already mentioned and adopted in this high house. Of course, it is our opinions that must be the subject of a broad consensus: it is the construction of the second block of the nuclear power plant Krško; it is the extension of the operation of the first block of this power plant; it is a successful decision on the landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste. We intend to continue to build a hydroelectric plant on the central and lower Savi; we are studying intensively the possibility of a hydroelectric power plant in Mura. In the national energy programme, all these projects will be adequately embedded in the energy development strategy in Slovenia. Finally, if we want to provide the Slovenian economy with a more competitive position - and, as you know, this is the main focus of our government policy, especially in terms of energy supply - then the Government considers, in particular in these times of crisis, that investment in energy is a good decision. For these investments, the government will give priority to projects that will have greater energy efficiency to increase the share of renewable energy sources and those that will contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. Thank you very much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a further question. Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u6	I'd just like to ask before asking a supplementary question, even for an answer. What dynamism does the ministry, the Energy Strategic Council, have in mind, and with what dynamics will decisions be made in this area? Because I'm afraid that if this strategic reflection goes on, it won't be necessary in a few months. It can happen that those who decide on this today in the electricity sector will make commitments that are at the top of a quarter of the commitments we have for the highway cross and that in the National Assembly, something will not be decided much more, as the investment potential of energy can be fueled. This is a black scenario and I think this case is very responsible and it is right to go back to the National Assembly. However, in most things I agree with you and myself that Slovenia has the highest priority in the field of energy precisely in that, despite some attempts in the past, Slovenia has not decided to sell any part of its energy and is still in Slovenia and to a large extent in state ownership. I think that this is one of its basic advantages, but it must be taken into account - and here we also agree that, unlike last year, when the sounding of electricity in Europe was immeasurable and virtually every source, irrespective of the price of electricity, regardless of the environmental impact of this source, was welcome, I think today is a good time to think clearly. In this part, I ask once again the following question: Will we discuss this in the National Assembly before the responsible people in the electricity sector sign contracts that will have more than a billion or a quarter of the highway crossing obligations?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u8	Minister Lahovnik and I have repeatedly discussed the issue of whether after four months of government work we are satisfied with the dynamics of dealing with these issues. No; we want to accelerate the preparation of all the necessary documents that will be subject to expert and political judgement. We both understand that the current crisis is a real opportunity to focus our attention on the energy field, and some activities are already taking place here. I answer your questions. We will speed up the preparation of all the documents so that it can be spoken of by the profession and, ultimately, by policy. We will have our first discussions in the framework of the National or Strategic Energy Council. The Ministry of Economy will prepare the first proposals for these decisions, we will consult within this Council, within the Government, certainly within the framework of the professional public and not least in this National Assembly. So, before we take decisions, they will be subject to consultation and exchange of views in this high assembly. Once again, the dynamics are too small in terms of our expectations and desires, and we want to speed it up. Part of this discussion will be held tomorrow at a meeting of the crisis group of ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u10	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is said that the second paragraph of Article 246 and in assistance to the President and to all of them that these reflections will be carried out as quickly as possible, I propose that Members be assisted with this work in a fruitful manner. I therefore propose that this is one of the points that we are considering at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Franz Bogovic, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 31 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister will now be raised by Mr Jože Tanko, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! The human resources broom used to clean your government by offices and companies works without interruption. So far, 85 persons have been replaced before the end of their term of office, and all have been highly educated and trained, all replaced, without any argument, although many times you have said: "Before any member of the Government or Government would fully decide on a possible replacement before the end of their term of office, there should be a written reason for this." Let me remind you that none of these discharges have been carried out under this paradigm, i.e. for a legitimate written reason. But this is not the only problem with your predictions and your statements. You said: "We have established KAS and now appointments will take place through the KAS, which are independent of the Government and will provide professional assessment of the personnel for individual functions. They will be chosen only by the best." Then, January of this year, so two months ago, you claimed the following [[Quote]] :"In the future you will be able to follow a practice that will be different, I assure you, because this is a matter on which the new policy of the new government stands or falls, a new paradigm. I stand behind her, and behind her are my ministers and ministers." But the ministers, even from your party, are not behind it. They're recruiting past the KAS or they're ignoring the decisions of the KAS and making their own decisions. Your demands to correct mistakes are mocked. The last example is the appointment of the Director of Slovenian Railways and the irreverent, ironic behavior of your client's right hand, Minister Vlačič. That human resources matters are going crazy, there is also a protest and withdrawal of one of the new supervisors of the Slovenian Railways, who was appalled because he did not see the director and his programme in the supervisory board at all, and not the one they appointed at the same meeting. Before that, Minister Kresal appointed the director of the police past KAS. The appointments of Kad, the Court and the NLB were also passed by KAS. Dear Prime Minister, your paradigm of different personnel is dead, not alive. It was destroyed by your closest and most responsible colleagues and the Government as a whole, which also decides on these human resources decisions. You used to say, "We're standing or we're going down." I want to know: How long will it take you to find out that this paradigm of yours is not being implemented? And second of all, I want to know: Are you even able to keep your word? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I ask for your answer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u14	I have the answer in writing, but I'm not going to read it, but I'd like to say a few things in my own words. First, if I assess any government policies in the first quarter as successful, I assess human resources policy. This represents a significant change in the practice that has been applied to governments before ours. There have been important changes that you need to notice. A Human Resources Accreditation Council for the Economic Area was set up and, following its example, another six for other areas. If you ask me today if I'm satisfied with his work, I can tell you very clearly that I am. He basically fulfilled our expectations for which he was placed. The Human Resources Accreditation Council is a consultative body of the government. When he was founded, no decision went through him. When you mention the decisions that were made before him, I did not insist on any of them as perfect. Even today, I am not saying that in this new standard, and this is a new standard in this country's human resources policy, you will have to admit this, there are no shortcomings because this is such an important innovation in the behaviour of the country, it is likely that this system will have to be complemented with time. But surely we keep our promise, we go in the right direction, and we can also accept self - criticism that this new high standard is not without irreconcilability. As regards your comment on the selection of the Director-General of Slovenian Railways. The Supervisory Board had two paths. One: invitation to tender. Second: good practice. In any of the decisions, even in this case, the State or the competent institutions have not acted unlawfully. Even in this decision, he decided to take one of the ways, in which case, for the path of good practice. Personally, I think it would be more useful if, as a rule, the Supervisory Board, any, were to decide on the way to the public tender. What was concluded at the last meeting of the Government, honourable Member?Oh, my God! In order to take into account the recommendation of the Government, the Governing Council, that a public invitation to tender should normally be made, only exceptionally can good practice be followed by a prior agreement from the Government. As far as political personnel are concerned, where you are confidently saying that they belong to this or that political option, let me tell you that you know. I don't! Because I don't take the right to wonder about their political orientation. It is important for us to apply the principle, and that is what we are doing to give the best of the best. The people who are selected go through the KAS, go through an evaluation of the advisory body, or meet the criteria they have written themselves, ultimately it is the responsibility of the competent ministers or ministers to propose solutions to the Government - and in principle almost always adhere to the KAS recommendations. We have put in place a new standard, we have changed the policy which proved to be a major obstacle to further development at the time of transition; perhaps this bothers you, not me. There are inconsistencies and there are also instances when we need to re-examine them, but we will continue on this path because it is significantly better than the one followed by the previous government and the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u17	Complementing the question, not to complement the question, to complement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. You rarely experience in the National Assembly that someone looks you in the eye and tells you the truth. The cases I have already listed; Nova Ljubljanska banka, Slovenian Railways, Police are examples that show that things are not going as they are actually said. But if we look at what kind of personnel are then called in these control councils, I find that we also get results that completely undermine all of your axioms or your paradigm. In the supervisory councils, you appointed a number of important representatives of your parties, your former MPs, former ministers, candidates for MPs, local officials, party officials. And I can give you names from Social Democrats: Dr. Max Tynikar, Dr. Matey Kožuh Novak, Dr. Andrej Godec, Vitomir Pretnar, Jože Glazar, Dr. Bozidar Voljč and so on. From Zares: Mag. Janez Digger, mag. Vinko Logaj, Marjetica Mahne, Dr. Tomaž Kalin. From Liberal Democracy: Rudi Mogue, Draško Veselinovich, Danica Purg, Damjan Lah, Dr. Bogomir Kovac, Zoran Thaler, Andrej Gerencher and so on. From DeSUS: Forum 21 was contributed by Borut Meha and Dr. Petr Kraljič, the ZKS Central Committee of the former Executive Secretary for Culture Josip Koshuto, the Liberal Academy of Dr. Mojco Šebart Kovac. And these days we are also looking online at a letter from the head of the Liberal Democracy Group, where he announced the replacement of the director of the Directorate for Agriculture or Forestry, and he wrote: "Our objective cannot be too direct accounted for by the director of the Directorate." It says everything, and it's so easy to do it. You also said: "Follow closely what will happen, and you will get assurance that the practice is different." However, when we find out this practice remains worse, no government has as much political staff as yours, and all others have been staffed differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u20	I must say, you have gathered a lot of courage to look me in the eye at the last sentence. As far as Nova Ljubljanska is concerned, the bank's example of good practice was used before the Human Resources Accreditation Council was established. After the establishment of the KAS, the choices proposed by ministers or ministers of the Government never passed. Second of all, the railroad. In railways, the Supervisory Board did not pass the rules. I would like him to decide on a public invitation to tender. He had a chance of good practice and decided to do it. After this decision, which was not illegal, the government acted immediately. That's why I told you, when we eliminate inconsistencies, we're going to eliminate them very consistently. We have decided, and we have agreed with the conclusion that after the meeting, the Supervisory Councils will first reach out to the rules of the invitation to tender and only exceptionally, with the prior agreement of the Government, can take the path of good practice. Police. As far as I know, the Minister has a duty officer and that's for the official council to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The last thing you said, too, shows that things are going differently than they were predicted. Otherwise, significantly different from your predictions. And I can tell you that with your answers, I am not satisfied that you have not responded to the main points. I therefore propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, decide on the reply of the President of the Government to the question put. The expertise that your governments and your ministers are expected to provide to the board of directors, financial, economic and others, is questionable because this is not the case. You accused your predecessor of recruiting for political loyalty. You said you'd change that - if we didn't make it, that's what we're falling for. And you also said whether they are yours or ours is a question we should never ask ourselves. The question that must always be asked is whether people are capable. If I sum it up logically, then your government will not be politically incapacitated. But I've read to you at least 30 people who have been politically recruited. And these two of your sayings will go after my assessment of the bluff's anals. Carefully, you said, follow developments in the coming months, and this is what you put on our hearts in January, and this shows when we started monitoring that it is actually politically staffed and also coming into these organs only from the personnel of your option. During the previous term of office, the coalition provided the opposition with a third in the supervisory councils, as it was aware that opposition control was also extremely important. Your government did it. It broke the old practice and introduced a new one that prevented the opposition from looking into the systems. You're intruding, as I said, exclusively on the political line. Exchanges take place as announced by your client colleague, who always had a key with 600 names, and not so, according to the paradigm you predicted. By now, almost 100 people had been resolved. The SD, Zares, DeSUS, former MPs or unsuccessful candidates are coming to their seats. And this completely deviates from the prediction that you will establish a new human resources paradigm and that your government will not be in charge of political affiliation. It's happening the other way around! Your government is in charge solely of political affiliation, beyond the rules you have set yourself. The Minister of Virant in the last Magu also draws attention to the permissiveness and duplicity of such practices. I expect the coalition to be able to discuss and deal with this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The facts and probably this debate in the National Assembly will not be prevented again. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 31 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Mr Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. In Slovenia the problem of medicines is getting worse. This issue is most evident in the field of generic medicines, which are essentially too expensive. Despite the fact that the Rules on Prices of Medicinal Products for Human Use provide that prices should not be higher than 85% of the average price of generics in Europe, pharmacies prescribe or charge prices much higher, in some cases they charge even 70% of the margin, which is unacceptable. The fact is that in the developed world generation prices range between 70% of the original drug in the first generation and only 25% in the second or third generation. With us, these prices were "distracted" and when the government said years ago that we were essentially protecting our own pharmaceutical industry, it was clearly a lie. Because out of € 130 million, Lek in Switzerland will carry about € 120 million. It is true that we must thank Mr Drnovšk, who sold Lek despite the opposition of the Slovenian National Party, but it is. After all, the protection of Krka is also questionable, where despite the recession, the administration pays 700 000 euros in 2008 and the head of Krka has about 40,000 euros in monthly income. There's a lot to change. I ask, Mr President: When will the matter change to this extent that what happens now that doctors are purchasing and writing medicines by trade name, even though they should write generic names? This could, of course, result in the replacement of these medicines. I also ask: When will it be regulated that pharmacists at the pharmacy will have to issue the medicine that is the cheapest in accordance with the regulation governing prices? I think there's a lot of questions here, and I'm going to ask you one more question in the other half of my question, and now I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I ask for your answer, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u26	With regard to pharmaceuticals, Mr President can ask more questions than I can give answers, but I suggest that he consults with the competent minister. But now I'm going to answer as best I can. The scope of determining the prices of medicinal products and their financing from public funds is regulated by laws and regulations, which are also harmonised for the European Union Directive. The determination of the prices of medicines and the financing of public funds is within the competence of the Member States, i.e. Slovenia. We are in line with the recommendations of the European Union to regulate those prices of medicines financed from public funds. The systemic measures we are trying to achieve as low as possible in Slovenia and thus maintain the sustainability of the health system are: firstly, the rules governing the prices of medicinal products; secondly, the system of interchangeable medicinal products with the highest recognised value, which has introduced competition with equivalent medicinal products manufacturers of original and generic medicinal products fighting for a higher market share by lowering the prices of medicinal products; and thirdly, the negotiations for lower prices of medicinal products between the payer and the provider of medicinal products and public orders for hospital medicines. We have introduced a benchmark model that takes into account the producer's drug prices in Germany, Austria and France. Given that French prices are on average at a third of European prices, this model provides us with relatively low drug prices in the original products. For generic medicinal products, the average price of generic medicinal products in those countries is used, taking into account that, compared to at least most European countries, we are significantly smaller markets and that for all medicinal products, in particular generic, we are subject to the legality of economies of scale. In Germany, which has about 80 million inhabitants, the same generic medicine offers up to 30 producers of generic medicines. Due to the extremely high competition between generic medicines, the prices of generic medicines are both among the lowest in Germany. The prices of medicinal products in Slovenia, which are regulated, represent only the maximum permitted prices. On the basis of the last amendment of the medicines law, it is possible for the payer of medicinal products to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to reach lower prices in negotiations with the manufacturers of medicinal products than the prices set out in the Regulation. The aim of regulating the prices of medicinal products at this level is to maintain a balance between achieving the lowest possible prices in Slovenia in relation to prices elsewhere in the European Union and maintaining medicines on our market. This is how the efforts of the competent institutions of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Ministry of Health and the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices are carried out in order to achieve price reductions mainly for the very important medicines of generic medicines manufacturers and innovative medicines of originator medicinal products producers, which represent huge costs from public funds. The price ratio between generic and original medicinal products in Slovenia on average does not deviate from the ratio in other European countries. However, the number of drug manufacturers who market their medicines in Slovenia compared to many European countries is still relatively small, mainly due to our small market. Slovenia represents only 0.5% of the European Union market and this does not contribute to a decrease in prices on the basis of competition. With regard to the question of too high pharmacy margins for generic medicines, let me explain that there is no pharmacy margin in Slovenia, neither generic nor for the original medicines financed from public funds. The Pharmacy Act introduces a service system that maintains the added value of medicines at the pharmacy service level for these medicines below 10% of the total value of medicines and is one of the lowest in the European Union. For medicines in the open market, which leave us with about one-eighth of the value of the entire drug market, pharmacies freely shape the value of their services. The financing of a health insurance pharmacy provides mechanisms to ensure transparency and control over the use of public funds in this area, such as the annual arrangements and the procurement of hospital medicines.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr President, it is obvious that you have been written by Ministry advisors who are, in fact, "believers" of the Krka factory. However, Mr Primožič helped in this matter, because some of the quotations from this implementation are entirely his. The fact is that the Directives of the European Union are not being taken into account or taken into account. It is not possible to import medicinal products in parallel. The rule is written in such a way that it seems possible. But when a man wants to do something, it's impossible. Then in our hospital, each of us gives public orders to buy drugs. I can show you how the country of Montenegro does it. There is a complex invitation to tender for the purchase of all medicines, stating the company, with price and everything, and then with a score at the end of which medicine was selected. On 33 pages! And they say Montenegro is among the most corrupt countries in Europe! Yeah, well, then where are we? I have done here for at least four countries, Denmark, Germany, Poland and the Netherlands, analyses of the prices of their generic medicines. There is not enough time, so I am looking forward to sitting down with Mr Minister and we will settle this matter once. I hope that you will take into account the well-intentioned ideas of the opposition, at least in this section and at least on this issue, because I think there is much to be saved for medicines. Every year, Slovenia could save at least €40 to €50 million, with minor corrections and, above all, by keeping to the rules of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u30	It is true, Commissioner, that I have not prepared this answer, but I take full responsibility for the content I have given.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Given the complexity of the subject and the fact that the matter is very important, not only in the context of the "spar programme", but also in the context of the treatment of our citizens and citizens, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose a broader debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zveg Jelinčič Trimenite to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to the parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 31 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the questions raised at the 2nd and 3rd meetings of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of the Environment and Space, will first answer Mr Sam Bevik's questions regarding the long-term procedures for the adoption of spatial acts to place state roads in space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. All the nice greetings, in particular to the Member who asked me the question and asks what stage is the procedure for adopting spatial acts to place the new road and tunnel links between Primorsko and Gorenjska under the 4th development axis, what is the timetable and how we will speed up the procedures for the adoption of the national location plans on the 3, 3A and 4 development axes. First of all, I should explain that 45 State location plans or State spatial plans were adopted during the period 2005-2009, nine of which deal with the problem of state roads which are not motorways. However, the Member's claim that no State spatial plan relating to roads on the 3rd or 4th development axis has yet been adopted to date. I can say that the preparation began at the end of 2006 for the construction of the state road Cerkno-Hotavlje and the suburbs of Gorenje village with the publication of the preparations in the Official Journal of November 2006. As part of these preparations for the State Spatial Plan, two variant studies were also developed. In the context of these studies, it was found that the most appropriate southern variant, which runs through Sovodnja and the tunnel under Kladjama, would be the most appropriate one, but unfortunately, the proposed variant was not agreed by the municipality of Gorenje vas Poljane or the municipality of Cerkno. Therefore, a decision was also taken in autumn 2008 to optimise both variants in such a way as to take the local community's comments into account as much as possible and to re-evaluate such studies in the context of the new variant study. Let me say that in the new study the variants are also included a variant which the municipality of Gorenje vas-Poljane considers to be the only suitable, namely the variant of road breaks from Sovodnja in the Idrijce Valley and from there links to Cerkne. The contracting authority of all these professional bases, including the study of variants, is essentially the Directorate for Roads. I can say that an invitation to tender for the acquisition of these manufacturers is being made at this time. Following new studies, the preparation of State Spatial Plans will continue with the development of a complementary draft State Spatial Plan, which will be publicised again. After the public decommissioning, a proposal for a State Spatial Plan will be drawn up and on this basis a State Spatial Plan Regulation will also be drawn up, which will then be prepared as such for consideration by the Government. However, since the planning of the road between Cerknje and Hotavljavi was complicated, it was also in the summer of 2008 that, in agreement with the municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane, a decision was taken to plan the bypass of the municipality itself. In this regard, the municipality has already adopted a decision to initiate the preparation of the municipal spatial plan. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. To supplement the answer? Please, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. Mr Minister Karl Erjavac would like to thank you very much for a thorough answer to my question, which I asked at the end of January this year. I would appeal, however, that a step forward should be taken in the spatial decision-making system itself and that additional legislation should be adopted to allow the facilities to be placed in space more quickly. This is not just about state roads, but also about other things that are problematic, such as remotes and so on. Because since the first space conference to place the tunnel between Primorsko and Gorenjska, it has been a long time. This first spatial conference was held in September 2006 and if it goes at such a pace that we do not take into account the possible civil initiative that can happen, we will lose too much time and we will not be able to draw on the European funds that are available in this financial perspective. I therefore call for the acceleration of all these procedures for the adoption of spatial plans and the placement of new roads into space. Thank you very much again for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The question to Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac will also be raised by Renata Brunskole regarding the timetable for the preparation of spatial plans for the 3rd development axis in Dolenjska and Bela Krajina. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you. Given that you, the President, have already told yourself about the content of the question, I will not repeat it. Perhaps, however, I could use this opportunity in view of what the Member of Parliament has said. Let me say that we are collecting all these comments and conclusions with regard to the new adoption of the Spatial Planning Act and that it is likely that changes and additions to this Act should be made after this year, in particular in order to speed up the procedures. In fact, a lot of European funds are linked to these positions. We note, however, after a detailed examination, that something else can be rationalised in these procedures, so that the National Assembly can expect us to come up with such a proposal this year. As far as the question raised by Mrs Brunskole is concerned, this construction of this transport link of the 3rd development axis in the area of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina is an essential condition for the start or progress of economic development. Let me say that the preparation of the State Spatial Plan is in the stage of making the most appropriate variant, the proposed variant from A2 to the south takes place on both sides of the New City, as the 3rd development axis on the eastern bypass and also on the western bypass. Both roads will join together at the Poganci connection, from which the route goes south and behind the tunnel of Gorjanec splits again into two legs, the first leg to go towards Metlika, while the second leg to Vinica. I must say that the local communities here support the proposed solution, so it is coordinated, but the problem is that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has given a preliminary negative opinion because, according to their position, the route should be removed from the part where the most agricultural land is. I must say that the project tasks have been designed and, according to our known information, there are also procedures for the award of public contracts. If the spatial plan is not complicated in the further process, we can somehow count on a regulation within 24 months. However, the specific future plan will be able to be drawn up by the Ministry of Environment and Space when all procurement procedures for the production of detailed professional bases are completed. Before this deadline, there is no point in drawing up, because we do not know how these calls will run, given that we know that there are always many possibilities for different complaints here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u40	Nicely greeted! Thank you very much, Mr Minister, Mr Karel Viktor Ejravec for his answer, by perhaps missing the answer in this answer. When you talk about public procurement in preparation of documentation somehow, I don't know if it really represents a major obstacle, a possible obstacle to the complaint - any kind of complaint - in order to delay the procurement process. So I'm wondering if it's possible to answer: Is this a public order or is this procedure already under way? In fact, it is now about six months ago, on July 3rd last year there was a unity of local communities, and it seems to me that we will soon reach one year of this time and we are still somewhere at the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u41	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your question. I must say that this is being prepared by the Directorate for Roads, but there is no problem in asking how far these procedures are and you will receive a written answer to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Environment Minister will answer Mr Dejan Levanič's question on the issue of housing. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for asking. It was a question of the possible establishment of a so-called temporary housing fund following the Swedish model. I must say, something about this is also written in the coalition agreement. I must say that, together with the Ministry of Finance, we are considering this possibility to do so already in the third package of so-called anti-crisis measures. So I think it would be possible to do this because we are already studying certain things in this segment. However, I would like to say that, despite the fact that the Housing Fund in this economic crisis also wishes to encourage some way that construction in this area will not be completely halted, I would also like to say that construction is expected to start this year in Ljubljana, Brdo, where construction permits for the construction of 400 apartments will also be available sometime in the middle of the year. However, it should also be noted that the possibility of reshaping the Republic Housing Fund in the sense that it could be more capital-efficient because all these projects are also linked to certain investments and if we are to achieve a greater momentum here, the Housing Fund should be recapitalised, which is not possible in the form it is currently organised, because such recapitalisation could heavily burden the budget. So as far as this is concerned, I can tell you that there are activities going on here. I hope that within this third package of anti-crisis measures we will already have a concrete proposal prepared and produced. However, I must say that we are also exploring some other options, in order to ensure that more apartments are available. You know that there is quite a bit of this state-owned housing fund, which is empty, which is also in poor condition, but we also see the possibility that these apartments could be renovated and leased in this context. However, I must say that certain activities are also ongoing, such as this year's public call for subsidies to young families, or it has been the first time that they have resolved their housing issue by purchasing them. Then, from 1.1.2009, we established the possibility of a subsidy for those who are in market apartments and who have the right to a non-profit rent. This is how we try to move things forward in this area. But it is true that there are many different numbers here. Thus, for example, the official census shows that in 2002 there were around 78 000 unoccupied dwellings in Slovenia, that there were 13,000 in Ljubljana alone. Very different numbers appear here, and it will also be necessary to determine exactly what the real manna of these apartments is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Minister, thank you for a thorough answer and a great thank you for being prepared to solve the housing problem, because we know that in Slovenia, especially among young and young families, this is a very pressing problem. Perhaps a clarification of opinion, especially when we are talking about the Housing Fund, as you pointed out for yourself. I wonder whether this housing fund is designed to deal with the sale of apartments at market price and thus somehow strengthens profits, or whether the purpose of this fund is to really make sure that as many people as possible in need of housing come to their homes. So we're trying to somehow shape the fund in this direction. If these data are indeed true that, in fact, the Housing Fund was severely lagging behind in plans to see that the income from housing sales was 88 per cent below the planned and 77 per cent below the reach of 2007, and that the plan also exceeded in awards, such as for work performance and performance at all, it is indeed a matter of considering what the basic function of the Republic Housing Fund is, in order to solve housing policy. If they also hold that last year's housing fund sold all 35 apartments to buyers and that it is now available or that it still has about 326 non-profit apartments available, we will essentially have empty apartments, I would really appeal to you, Minister, because I know you have hearing that we are trying to sort this out in the future and we are really trying to actively solve the housing problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u47	Mr Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Karel Erjavec, will also answer Mr Milan Gumzar's question regarding the land reptiles in north-eastern Slovenia. I would like to warn you, Mr. Minister, that you have only 1 minute and 5 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you. It's just not going any faster. First of all, with regard to this damage caused by the storms in July and August 2008. Let me say that some funds have already been received by the municipalities, namely 9.6 million euros last year; four million went through the Red Cross and Karitas to perform emergency interventions; the Ministry of Education, when it came to damage to school facilities, allocated almost 2 million euros; the Ministry of the Environment, the same number, with regard to substitutions of asbestos coverage. Thus, a total of €18 million was given for this purpose last year to address these consequences. I must say that this year's balance will be €4 million, with the programme multi-annual, an additional €20 million will have to be provided in the coming years. As far as the beaches are concerned [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Minister for Environment and Space, Karl Erjavec will answer the question. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry. A complementary answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, too, Minister. More or less, we are aware that some of the damage was paid last year. The question was asked: When will we receive and how much money in this year? How many in the next few years? The question was also raised: How will the Ministry of Environment and Space approach the rehabilitation of the beaches that emerged this year after the storm and after the great rainfall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like an additional answer? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u52	As far as small and medium-sized beaches are concerned, we have a specific budget line. However, in view of the developments in recent years, I must say that this budget item is too low. There we have some more than two million euros for the rehabilitation of all these small and medium-sized beaches. Otherwise, we do so with the congregations. As far as this year is concerned, I must say that everywhere there is a threat to life - it is particularly about those houses where there is a risk that the beach will actually take them - that we are preparing rehabilitation programmes there, because things need to be repaired. Otherwise, there are over 10,000 small beaches in Slovenia. This is where priorities are set according to the threat. The first priority is actually the threat of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer Lászla Göncz's question regarding the resolution of the problem of ambrosia in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you. On this issue, the Minister of Agriculture at the previous meeting has also answered in part. Let me say that in this regard we are establishing a special inter-resort commission, where the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health will also be involved in addition to the Ministry of the Environment. I must say that there is no specific strategy here, not within the EU, and not here; that there has been a debate within the EU about this; that we also plan to develop a Slovenian strategy within this interdepartmental group to address this problem. This is not only about ambrosia, but it is also about other invasive alien species that spread not only in Slovenia, but also across Europe and cause problems, various allergies, not to mention other harm to human health. However, I can say that we had an international consultation in Ljubljana on 10 March on where more than 40 NGOs and government organisations participated. It revealed that this phenomenon was under-explored and that more investment would have to be made in these studies, in monitoring. The same applies to Slovenia. However, it has been shown at this conference that this issue within the European Union is not being resolved in a uniform way, but in its own way. And I said earlier that, within the European Union, it has already become clear that this issue needs to be addressed in a uniform manner at the level of Europe, because in fact these invasive alien species cause quite a lot of damage. However, the phenomenon is under-explored. But I have to say, there's been an increase in your appearances.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, I welcome this idea of establishing an inter-ministerial commission and that a specific strategy will be developed. However, given the actual problems that already exist, I ask: Are specific activities envisaged as soon as possible? That's one question. And the second question is undoubtedly the fact that within the European Union this issue is raised very differently, because some countries that are more mountainous or coastal countries have such problems in much less than those that are pannonian lows or even some other areas in Europe. I therefore ask: In view of the actual enlargement, are specific activities also envisaged in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you. I have already mentioned that this debate is taking place within the European Union and that the Commission has also adopted a report on the development of the European Union strategy for invasive species. And that will also be our basis for our strategy. It was also decided that an appropriate agreement would be made this year as to how strict the policy of invasive alien species should be, in particular because of this problem that you have pointed out that different areas are doing so differently. And here, within the framework of the European Union, we want to achieve a single policy on how to act strictly. In fact, some countries do not feel this problem and do not even want some strict policy in this area. I must say that as a member we will be advocates of a stricter policy towards invasive alien species. Even to the one you mentioned, ambrosia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Environment and Space Minister Karel Viktor Erjavec will also answer the question of Mr Laszlo Göncz regarding the construction of a waste incineration plant in the Austrian Heiligencreuz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you, too, for that question. This incinerator is 10 kilometers from the Slovenian border, but I must say when we inquired and requested information from the Austrian side regarding this incinerator, it was stated that this incinerator would be built on the basis of the best technology available and in accordance with all standards applicable in the field of environmental protection. I must say that last year we also requested some additional measurement from the Austrian side regarding the impact this will have on Slovenia, given that there is a possibility that worse conditions could occur in the north wind, particularly in the Gorička area. I must say that these analyses result in a lack of these cross-border impacts. And then last year, the Slovenian side also agreed that there would be no special effects due to this incinerator on Slovenia. Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, will answer the question of Member Sam Bevk regarding the regulation of the status and funding of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear Member, thank you for asking. I'm sorry I couldn't respond to him at the previous session. In the meantime, a meeting took place, in fact, for a long time planned with the management of the Botanical Garden and the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, in which it operates. After complications in recent years, if I may say so, the status has stabilised, settled, and there have been no open questions about this. Funding, which was an apple of the dispute, has also been complemented by the amended Higher Education Financing Regulation by an increase of €120,000 in the amount of funding for this year's correction to the Botanical Garden. From this, the rebalancing of a new plant plant is also planned in our resources in the coming year, one part of which will be 550 square metres on the basis of the 2008 project. This is also one of the projects which I am answering to the second part of your question, which will mean some emphasis on the importance of weight and due respect, respect for this oldest continuous functioning institution, a public institution in the Republic of Slovenia. In the coming year it will celebrate, as you specify in the question, the 200th anniversary of existence. I have already taken the initiative to include it, given that this establishment is linked to the Illyrian provinces celebrating the 200th anniversary this year, so that due attention will be paid to the Botanical Garden already this year. In any event, a special concern will be devoted in the coming year. On the one hand, by opening this new acquisition, and also by organizing a major international event in cooperation with the Union of European Botanical Gardens, which will come to Ljubljana. And in this way, recognition will be given as the first such event in Slovenia and due attention will be given to this institution. For the future, however, a big question and a task has been provided at a new location already years ago at the zoo for further growth or for the creation of a new botanical species and, of course, adequate protection of the existing one at that location, where things are also managed by the owner. The exchange of certain land with the Municipality of Ljubljana was the basis for the construction of this plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I thank Minister Gregor Golobic very much for his reply and the concern he showed for the fate and functioning of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana, which filled the newspapers in a negative sense last year practically from month to month. My interest in the Botanical Garden is also due to the fact that he was the founder of the Botanical Garden 200 years ago Franz Hladnik, Idrijačan by birth and the top botanist, who was also valued beyond the borders of Slovenia. Only interest in the Botanical Garden erupted at the beginning of last year. I speak only for last year, not for the previous years, when the financing of the garden was cancelled by the Municipality of Ljubljana. In a number of performances, which were somehow related to the Botanical Garden, the mayor of Ljubljana also stated that he was willing to participate in the financing of the Botanical Garden and in the management of the relations between the Municipality, University and Botanical Garden. We know that in the past, the City Municipality of Ljubljana was one of the main funders of the activities of this garden. Last year, however, this co-financing dried up. I wonder: Will you also establish contacts with the Municipality of Ljubljana to re-engage as a partner in the operation of the Botanical Garden as one of the important possible co-funders of this activity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u65	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much. This contact was, in fact, established or the vine was a good way with a successful agreement on the replacement of a certain part of the plot inside the garden and in the Ljubljana College, which enables the construction of this plant. Otherwise, as you know, there are some open questions between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the City of Ljubljana. Last year, too, there was an escalation of the conflict that also filled the newspapers. The new government has appointed a special ministerial group, led by the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Mrs Plosteinereva, who has already met with representatives of the municipality. One of the issues mentioned there or included in this agenda to be addressed and adequately addressed is the possible re-entry or method of participation of the Municipality of Ljubljana in ensuring all functionality and quality of the existence and growth of the Botanical Garden.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. With the last reply of Minister Gregor Golobic, we answered the questions raised at the 2nd and 3rd meetings of the National Assembly. We are now moving on to the oral questions of Members of Parliament and Members to be raised today. The first question will be asked by Mr France Tsukati to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to touch, as I've already told you, the questions about dental care: Or on what basis do you believe that a new way of financing dental care will make dental services more accessible and better quality? I have sent this question to you on the initiative or on the basis of the responses we receive in our sent offices, as well as when people are waiting longer and longer for the dentist to visit. This is nothing new, but the waiting periods seem to be prolonged. When it first comes, if it ever comes to having a dentist order it, it waits for one year at a time. And if he manages to get to the dentist’s chair, he wants to be examined, and he also wants to do something to seal his teeth, make a crown, a bridge, or whatever it takes. And if something is done to him, he wants it to be with good materials, that it is quality done, that it will not be necessary to fix this matter every year or every month. And it also sounds like you're preparing some new way of funding or connection to the principal system. However, it is not clear that certain things would be complemented or rectified within the means of financing dental services. Only if we look at the financial plan of the dental office for adults, can we see that only EUR 24 000 is foreseen in the annual budget for such an office. This is for the average population of 2500 per dentist only EUR 10 for material costs and depreciation. If we count this cost not only for bays, for bridges and the like, but also for appliances, for a dental chair costing 50,000 euros, it is for dental appliances, for dental X-rays, it is also for rooms, for hospital patients, waiting room, electricity and so on. I'm asking: Will it be possible to achieve a better quality of dental services with the same resources? That's the question I want an answer to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Miklavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u70	Dear Dr. Tuckati, thank you very much for the question. Before I go to the exact answer, if possible, I'd like just a few details, which will be interesting for everyone. In Slovenia, 505 dentists in public health establishments carry out dental services at the burden of compulsory health insurance. We have to add 597 concessionaires to this, there are 159 net privates. In 2007, €82 million and €44 000 were earmarked for dental care in 2008, €86 million. These are the funds allocated to compulsory dental health insurance. These funds grow proportionately every year. A new method of financing dental activities was proposed by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia for complaints by many insured persons that dentists in Slovenia do not want to receive them for treatment. This has proved to be the case even though they do not reach the number of persons identified by the rules, the rules of compulsory health insurance and therefore according to the data of the institution about 27% of insured persons do not have a selected dentist in Slovenia. This requires the law and other regulations to be able to exercise compulsory health insurance rights. The Institute estimated that the biggest problem was that dentists refused to report. And we know and probably Dr. Tsukjat too you know that today in Slovenia we have dentists who have reported 2,000, 2,200 insured. But we have a lot of dentists who only have 400, 500 insured. And on the basis of the complaints made by the insurers, there was a desire to open up and that dentists should accept insurance applications on their list. In this way we would equalize all the insured in the Slovenian space. The fact is that those who have 2,000 insured and the amount you have been talking about, Dr. Tuckati, who is accurate and correct, of course they are not all in the same year and constantly at the dentist. This was the reason why we also supported this system at the Ministry, so that the way can be changed and that everyone can apply in order to enable these insurers to access dental services as well. Your conclusion, Dr. Cuckoo, is correct. We are preparing a new system to facilitate this, but we are also facing some problems, especially in our application to dentists, when we demand that the insured be given an account of the health service provided. And here we have problems, because with supervision it is found that there is an unjustified charging of services: either in the burden of the institution or in the burden of voluntary health insurance and also in the burden of the insurer. And if I'm very meticulous and look at the implementation of the health insurance programme in Slovenia, then I have to say that even this 86 million 500 thousand last year by dentists was 2% planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure there's a lot of things you said that I stand by and support. But the transition to headship has one original error. You said they're dentists who have over 2,000 insurers and they have very few defined ones. The problem is that even if and when all patients are defined, we will have 2,300 patients per dentist in Gornja Radgona, for example, in adults and in Idrija, for example, 3,300. That's a big difference, 2,300, 3,300. Here I have the names of ten or fifteen health homes, from Šentjur near Celje, Sežana, Jesenic, Radovljica, Tržiča, Grosuplja, Idrija, Kamnika and so on, which have over 3,000 inhabitants per dentist. Imagine how the dentist will work with 3,300, considering that the inhabitants are evenly distributed to all existing dentists in that place, say Idrija. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the basic right of the patient to obtain a dental examination once a year means at least half of the working time will be reserved for this right once patients exercise that right. And what the quality of these services will be, we can imagine. I think she's vegetating dentistry now just on account of the patient's lack of awareness that they don't get to the dentists. If we want to do quality dental work, we need to do something sooner, from the network, to the quality, to the cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Cuckoo, was that a comment? Thank you very much. Have you received a request to complete your response? You are. Here you go. Thank you very much. Dr. Bostian Jaksh is away. Mr. Miran Györek, will you ask a question? [[Yeah.]] Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the autonomous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. You are probably also familiar with the sad situation of the Slovenian minority in Przebje in Hungary, colleagues and colleagues. In order to become critical, the President of the National Assembly and the members of our Parliamentary Commission for the Slovenians during their visits to and from the Republic of Poland were able to identify the situation during their visit. I can tell you that we know the problem even better in the Slovenian National Party, because we are often familiar with the situation of our foreigners when our foreigners openly and without formal reservations complain about their situation and ask the mother of Slovenia for help. It is known that Slovenia's minorities in spending have not been devoted to our minorities in Austria and Italy for decades, and contracts and arrangements are also needed. The Court has apparently come to the bottom of the recent intention of the local administration in Monoster to close one Slovenian kindergarten in Use on the grounds that there is no money and that there are not enough Slovenian children. A similar explanation was used to close the elementary school in the Slovenian village of Sakalovci. Recently, the financing of the Slovenian ethnographic museum in Monoster was suspended. We are pleased if they keep information from the latest non-official sources to change the decision to finance the museum and personally I am pleased to do so. I want to know: How and with what concrete steps does the Minister of Action plan to improve the situation of the Slovenian minority in the country of consumption? It can use more resources to defend Slovenian life and thus to replace Slovenia in general. One is Hungarian legislation and protection of minorities, which Hungary obviously does not implement as it should; the other is our expectation of your inter-ministerial ministerial engagement to improve such a poor situation. Here I think first of all of our Minister of Education and Minister of Culture. I welcome the decision of the Slovenian Ministry to visit Slovenian kindergartens in Przebje once a week, and thus to ensure the contact of the youngest in Przebje with Slovenian children. It would be very important for our ministry to engage at least two, three educators, so [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] so that every day we can visit four, five kindergartens, and thus take care of our youngest. This is about negligible costs. We can talk in a few thousand euros. And I wouldn't know how it affected our budget. In the immediate border vicinity, we have quite a few unemployed educators available, and in this way we could contribute to the resolution of the unenviable social situation of the population in Goričko and Prekmurje. In the smallest Slovenian village in Przebje, Vandovci, our natives managed to organize the so-called "Little Triglav" with volunteer volunteer effort. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u75	Mr. Györek, I'm sorry, your time is up. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You couldn't get an answer because Dr. Žekša isn't here. First, you shall declare or expect at the next meeting an oral reply or written reply. [[The ad from the bench.]] You will receive a written response within 30 days. Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole will ask the question of a letter to the Minister of Economy, Dr Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! For years, the economy and households in some areas of Slovenia have been facing the issue of reliable electricity supply. The problem is in particular the so-called bottlenecks, where electricity supply takes place in one remote area, because in the event of possible weather distress or, unfortunately, more frequent natural disasters in these areas there is an even greater risk of a prolonged loss of electricity to consumers. It may not be necessary to stress in particular the material damage caused by the prolonged loss of electricity, particularly in the economy. Let me introduce you to a specific problem. For years, the economy of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina and households in this area have been facing the issue of reliable electricity supply. The weak point is the connection from Krske to New City and from there from RTP Gotna vas to Belo Krajino, where electricity is supplied by one remote via the forest of the growing Gorjans. During the winter months of 1999, snow and acorn caused a complete disruption of Posavje, Dolenjska and Bela krajina’s supply of electricity. Something similar happened in Koroška this year. In recent years, both Dolenjska and White Krajina have been pointed out by economists to the above-mentioned risk problem in the event of unforeseen failures. A possible solution would be the provision of Dolenjska, especially the economically strong electricity user of the New City and the White Landscape, by building a new remote over Črnoml and Kočev, thus getting the loop Novo mesto - Bela krajina - Kočevje - Beričeva pri Ljubljana - Novo mesto. This would avoid the potential risk of a longer-term loss of electricity supply throughout that area. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary Matthew Lahovnik: Are there any additional construction of new power lines or any other measures that would increase the security of electricity consumers in the most vulnerable regions of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u77	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The issue is indeed very topical, and I would like to explain that two system operators of the transmission and distribution network are responsible for the security of electricity supply in Slovenia. When we talk about transmissions, it's Eles, and when we talk about distribution networks, the Sodo Public Company. The reliability of the network includes the system's resistance to disruption and adequacy, which are two key parameters for the preparation of network development plans produced every two years by both system operators, both Eles and Sodo. The plan, which represents a set of reconstruction and new investments, shall be presented and drawn up at least 10 years in advance. In the last draft of the 2009-2018 transmission network development plan submitted by Eles and Sodo in January 2009, reliable analyses have shown that there are problems on the current network in several places. One of the problem areas is the area of Dolenjska, White Krajina and Posavje. The wider area of the nouvelles has inadequate power supply at present, as all the dividing transformers stations in the area are powered only by radial power from the Hudo distribution station, which is why there is no so-called safety or security criterion in this area. It should be pointed out that in order to ensure adequate power supply there is a number of necessary renovations and new investments in this area, namely by 2012 a new two-system 110-kilovolt line of the Bršljin-Gotna Vas, then a new split transformer station of Krka, also by 2011 the reconstruction of the 110-kilovolt railway Brestanica-Hudo into a two-system remote system, by 2012 a new 110-kilovolt line of the Grosuplje-Trebnje and a new distribution transformer station of Ivančna gorica. In 2018 a reconstruction of the existing 110 kilovolt remote Kočevje-Hudo is envisaged, according to the construction of a new remote between Grosuplje and Trebnje. By 2012, a new divisional transformer station Dobroška Vas and reconstruction of 110 kilovolt remote Krško-Hudo into a two-system remote control are also envisaged. By 2018, the new 110 kilovolt cable Kočevje-Crnomelj or optional connection of the White Landscape to the 110 kilovolt network of Croatia on the Metlika-Ozalj route is also envisaged. By 2010 there is also a new split transformer station at Brestanica and by 2014 a new split transformer station of Mokronog, a new split transformer station of Trbovlje and by 2013 a new two-system 110 kilovolt remote system of Otoška vas-Hrastnik. I can also give you this because I have written in writing, so you will have accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your comprehensive response. Of course, in the interest of further economic development of the entire area, this is indeed a broader problem across Slovenia, especially in areas where we are slightly further away from the city centre or Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a short one, but I think there is a clear enough question. First, if you'll excuse me, a little explanation. According to the 2007 Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 12 to 14% of the population of Slovenia lived below the poverty risk threshold in the last decade. If income did not include family and social benefits, the risk of poverty in Slovenia would be 25%. Last year, the poverty threshold was €495. Many may also wonder how people survive on such incomes. The farmer's retirement is over for me days ago, showing me his notice of retirement. It's a so-called farmer's pension. In February he received a total of EUR 187.43, and I think until about, I think, 8 euros. For years and years, man worked hard on his farm, surviving himself and his family, during a period when agricultural crop prices were extremely low when the so-called mandatory broadcast was, for survival, literally working all day and all day of the year, in most cases on hilly farms for the treatment of extremely difficult farms. Today, his pension amounts to a total of EUR 9 more than a state pension. Then we hear a variety of officials justifying this fact by the fact that these recipients have other assets. Anyone who logically thinks will know that in people who have low incomes, there is very little chance that they have created a lot of wealth. The problem is also that farmers who have paid contributions from voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance do not have additional entitlements to social transfers and disability insurance for more than half the insurance period. If we remember last year, when we discussed this dragan supplement in this assembly, we appointed it as some categories of pensioners, it was still literally difficult to fight for this dragan supplement even for these categories. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, How and when will you solve this problem? What will you do to raise these lowest pensions, which are largely received by farmers who have worked hard and paid pension and disability insurance for many years? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u83	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u84	Dear President! Dear Mr. President! Allow me to explain to you what it is like to provide pensions to categories of pensioners, as you mentioned. The pension and disability insurance of farmers is regulated in the same way as the insurance of other categories of insured persons. The State prescribes an insurance obligation only for those who achieve a relatively high cadastral income or other income, while for others, independent of income, it allows them to voluntarily participate in compulsory pension and disability insurance. It can also be concluded that farmers in past periods have always had the opportunity to choose what contributions they will pay and consequently what their pension will be. It is also important that most rural insurers still own part of the farm holding when they meet the age pension conditions or have certain ratings, which are later considered to be part of the income, when the farm is handed over under the subsistence contract. The contribution of farmers under the Social Security Contribution Act amounts to 22.39 per cent, while the contributions of the other categories of insured persons amount to 38.20 per cent. The employer’s contribution, calculated at level 8,85, shall be paid from the State budget for farmers. With regard to the statement of a specific in your question that the farmer receives a pension of EUR 187.43, we explain that the farmer is a pension under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers of 1. 1. 2009 onwards 227.60 euros. If a person receives an old-age pension of EUR 187.43, this means that he has not been provided with full pension and disability insurance. It was secured only for a narrower scope of rights and therefore does not have any other right from pension insurance, only to obtain pension rights. In accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance, the State provides all insured persons with a minimum pension of 35 per cent of the minimum pension base, irrespective of the amount of contributions paid. This means that any person, including a farmer who fulfils the conditions of at least 15 years of insurance age, at a certain age acquires the right to a pension at that amount, even though the contributions paid did not provide a pension at that amount. If the total pension benefits do not reach the monetary social assistance price, such a person is entitled to this difference and the price is 221.70 euros. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2000 granted the right to a state pension, although no contributions were paid for it, to persons who did not have any insurance at all. The proposal to regulate the state pension was made by the right Members of your party representing the farmers' will, on account of the fact that rural women were generally not insured and were left without all income at their age. For the most part, farmers have very low pensions, but the reason is not the status of the farmer, but the payment of low contributions, and we reiterate that the Republic of Slovenia pays to all farmers part of the contributions, those for the employer, which is why they are in fact already in a better position during the period of payment of pension contributions than other beneficiaries. At the Ministry, of course, we are aware that the issue of the regulation of farm pensions is an important and sensitive subject, on which many different views have been adopted in the professional and political circles in the past. However, we will also review this now that we are in the process of modernising the pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Let me point out for myself that it is insurance to a greater extent, as you have pointed out. And I must also point out that this is not about the insured and the pensioners of the last period, for the pensioners who are younger, but that it goes mainly, I do not know what the number is, but for the pensioners who are now well over 70 years old, the people who worked on these farms at a time when they were young, after the war and during those periods. I do not ask, however, for pensioners who regularly pay their contributions and who, depending on their contributions, receive or receive an appropriate pension. This is the extent of this and these pensioners. I also thank you for your reply in the sense that you will also consider these pensions when preparing changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Kek would like to ask the question of a Member State to the absent Minister of Transport. Mr. Keck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u88	I'd like to get an answer first. If I understand correctly, the answer may be oral or written. I'm asking a question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u89	If you request an oral response, you will receive it at the next meeting, otherwise written [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u90	I'd like an oral response, please. The question is: When does the Minister of Transport expect the completion of the Slovenian motorway leg?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The answer will be given orally at the next meeting. Mr Marijan Pojbič would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u92	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! My question touches on the most pressing issues facing the most burdensome elderly, especially those who have been waiting a long time for their beds in nursing homes. I am convinced that in this area the government should take great steps to build an additional network of homes for the elderly from public resources, as waiting and waiting for the elderly are increasing very rapidly. When reviewing the balance of the budget, I was alarmed by the figures showing that the Ministry is reducing funds to build a home for the elderly. Such an approach does not promise to improve the situation in this area, but radically makes it worse. For this reason, I think it is inevitable that, as Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, I should respond and request an answer to a question concerning this issue. If I refer to a coalition contract, it states: "With increased investment in public funds and in partnership with non-profit entities, we will provide additional accommodation capacity for all user groups." However, in the proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing, under item 2004, 2603, Social protection for the elderly, the Investment Maintenance Programme of the Social Health Institutions does not detect an increase in resources. It is even more worrisome that in the programme of the home network for the elderly, the funds are reduced by almost half a million euros, although you are explaining that you want to achieve better and more capacity with investment investments in infrastructure, greater variety of supply and greater plurality in the delivery of social security services. On the basis of this, I ask you: What are the measures of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in 2009 in the area of home building for the elderly? What is your ministry's long-term strategy for building a home for the elderly? What is your view of the public-private partnership in building homes for the elderly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Let me first respond to your concern that in the 2009 proposal for a rebalancing programme - Home for the elderly, the funds are reduced by almost half a million euros, as you state. If you look at the exact items and their distribution, you will see that the funds at the level of the sub-programme Social protection of the elderly have been maintained and that we are talking about 7 million 254 000 euros, which are also foreseen in the balance sheet in the same amount. However, we have made a reallocation within individual items, mainly between the homes for the elderly and the special welfare institutions. In the homes there are currently 15,818 cities for the elderly, and by the end of 2010, we will have approximately 1,800 new cities. It is already awarded concessions, but the homes are still under construction. The tender for concessions for Ljubljana and Maribor is open for about 700 cities, because there are the longest waiting periods in these cities. With this scope of the network of institutional protection for older people, the country will achieve the goal of the national programme of older people by 2010, which is 5% of the inclusion of older people over 65 in their homes. After this period, however, it will probably be necessary to rethink and review how the population is old and what additional needs are. As a result, the Ministry's evaluations in the field of institutional protection of the elderly in 2009 focus mainly on updating existing public institutions, which in quality are already lagging behind those that were built after 2000 and introducing new more modern concepts of institutional protection for the elderly. In addition, the Ministry aims to encourage other non-institutional forms of protection for the elderly, which allow them to stay in their home environment for a long time. In view of the existing network of public institutions and the number of elderly homes to be updated, the budget will mainly be earmarked for investment and investment maintenance of existing homes. Therefore, for several years now, we have been promoting the construction of homes through private capital. The network operates 27 homes which have been awarded concessions by the Ministry for the performance of this protection. They perform public service under the same conditions as public institutions, and also under the same professional, administrative and inspection supervision. Last year we also started with the first pilot project - the modernisation of the existing public institution based on the principle of public-private partnership, in the House of the older citizens of Idria. The implementation of the project is accompanied by a Commission composed of representatives of our Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the Community of Social Protection Institutions of Slovenia. And this public-private partnership has already been formally introduced in the Slovenian legal system and can complement public networks. At the Ministry, we will closely monitor the progress of this project and on this basis we will also be able to prepare an integrated approach in this area. In order to further develop this area, it is also important to adopt a law on long-term care and long-term care insurance, which will provide funding sources and set standards in this area. We are also preparing these two marriages this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u96	Dear Minister, I'd like to remind you of the election promises. Here I am thinking mainly of the party DeSUS and also of the government coalition, which has also proposed you to this ministerial centre in the belief that you will make the promises made before the elections, DeSUS and the government coalitions. This means that we have advocated additional funds from the budget for the additional construction of a home for the elderly. I reiterate that I have not understood this from the balance sheet of the budget, at least I. All of the previous mandate we have listened to the dissatisfaction of DeSUS and the previous opposition, i.e. the current coalition, that the orientation of the previous government towards a public-private partnership by granting concessions to build houses for the elderly is not appropriate. Many pre-election promises have been made in order to ensure that funds are increased to build an additional network of public homes for the elderly funded by public funds. Once again, I ask you, Mr. Minister: Where are these promises that were made today during the pre-election campaign? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. As I mentioned earlier in my reply, the programme for expanding the home of protection for the elderly is being implemented as it was adopted. I mentioned figures showing that the number of cities is increasing and that the 2010 target will be achieved. However, in this year's budget for these purposes, there remains the same resources as the previous government has earmarked for this budget and has not been reduced. However, if there are options, we will be able to extend this item to this end in the budget for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u100	Procedurally. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the answer to my question raised to you, Mr Minister. With the answer given, I cannot be satisfied, because I am sure that one of the words that have been spoken here today and the other are the results that are visible. Many of the elderly remain at the door of the home for the elderly, and every day more people lose their jobs, and every day more are at risk and live on the brink of poverty. And you also didn't support the pension allowance. And the measures taken to address the crisis by this government, or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, are not sufficient. But you have enough money to pay damages based on the decision-making of deleted persons. And here you are, the social note of those groups that are on the verge of survival and those who are socially at risk, not interested. That's why I think these are such important reasons that lead me to be unable to take your word for it completely. And so, of course, I propose, as I said in the introduction, a broader debate in the National Assembly on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow at the time of the vote. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u102	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Dear Minister! I would like to ask Mr Erjavac a question regarding chimney services. The problem of the provision of chimney services arises from the transfer of this compulsory public service, which was transferred from the municipality to the country, as happened by the amendment of the environmental law during the period of the Government of Robov in May 2004. The Environmental Protection Act provided for a six-month transitional period, which expired at the end of 2004, until which the municipal economic service was a smoker. After that, it became a compulsory state economic service. Obviously, the reforms adopted five years ago, which were fully concluded only by some of the decisions taken by the current government last December, were not the most in the interests of consumers but, above all, the interests of large operators of chimney services. This is illustrated by a number of parliamentary questions raised in the previous and some in writing at the beginning of this mandate. From many Slovene municipalities comes calls and warnings from many citizens that because of the new system they have lost their local chimney, because the tender was unsuccessful and received a larger company from another place. Specific cases point to discriminatory treatment in the tendering procedure, and this is also indicated by administrative disputes that have occurred in individual cases. Given that the services are monopolistic, there is a lot of dissatisfaction by users or citizens, particularly as regards the prices of services which they consider to be too high. However, the problem is not only in inadequate quality and low-cost services, but the underlying problem is in a concept that introduces a monopoly in an area that could work better without it, especially if these services were accessible to all on the basis of licences or permits, and users would choose their own specific operator. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the media, it has been observed that you are planning to solve this problem through stricter control over the management of chimney services. That's why I'm asking you: Are you planning, with the exception of more effective control of concessions, other measures that may relate to this issue? In particular, I am thinking of measures that would allow cheaper services, and in particular a greater choice for those who need these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye to the Member of Parliament! Thank you for asking. In fact, you should just agree with everything you've learned. In fact, this area is messy, everyone is dissatisfied, from operators, except some, to users. And as Minister of Environment and Space myself, I am very unhappy, especially because I receive more than 50 complaints a day. This area is in fact poorly regulated, as a result of poor performances, the Environmental Protection Act, where this public service was transferred from the local level. This raises questions as to whether a chimney service should even be a public service. As Minister, I would like to keep the public service. It's just a matter of fire safety, and we know we can't play with fire safety. Unfortunately, statistics show that the number of fires is increasing. I wouldn't go down for reasons, maybe because this job doesn't work the way it's supposed to. However, the fact is that we have seen an increase in the number of fires in recent years. It also raises the question of whether to let this public service go back to the local level. However, I must say that there are problems here because concession contracts have been concluded for a period of eight years. And if anything else were to be arranged here, those who have concessions today would also have a claim for compensation to the State for their lost earnings if they went into some drastic change at this point. Given that the situation here is pretty blurry, what is not working, I also decided to meet with all the representatives who are actors in this story. This is the case for contractors, we have operators on one side organised under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce and it is so-called companies, then we also have representatives organised in the Chamber of Commerce, and it is the so-called small chimneys. But we also have chimneys that don't even do this job because they didn't get the concession. However, I also met with a civil initiative representing the interests of users. We agreed at these meetings to set up a working group, not to buy time, but to try within this working group, where representatives of both companies performing this chimney service, representatives of small chimneys and also users' representatives will, of course, also participate in this working group to find the best solutions to this problem. I must say, the first steps we will take to change certain acts of law. Here, in particular, I am referring to the regulation on the implementation of the chimney service, then there is a regulation on the supply of small combustion plants, not to mention the entire address, which is where we will review prices or are appropriate because some consider them to be too high and the frequency of mandatory inspections. I must say that this frequency is higher than that imposed by, for example, the European Directive. In the case of a new combustion plant, the European Directive provides that no review is necessary in the first three years. As far as control is concerned, I really said that we would strengthen control, but it's not about control, or the chimney really cleans the chimney, but it's about control in more ways. One of the important things is how these concessions were awarded and on this segment we will review to see if all these concessions have really been granted [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] According to the law, because I have information that some strange things have happened here. [[...]] I agree, however, that we should consider a concept, perhaps a licensee [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u105	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u106	I will give the Minister an opportunity because he wanted to say something else by complementing this issue. We undisputedly agree or, as I understand it, we both agree that the fundamental problem of the concept, which cannot be changed without amending the legislation, is a fundamental problem. But you can. Even if I say the case, in the last term we had a conceptual problem with car stickers, where we had contracts that were years old, a type of concession was granted, but the law changed this matter and the stickers were abolished. Even in this case, when it comes to concession relations, the answer to this question is probably the answer to the concept. If the National Assembly agrees that there is no need for concession or public authority to do so, then I think there is a change of law. It is true, however, that the whole legislation was in force in 2004, and on the basis of it, these concession relations were then practically occurring over four years. When it comes to our health, each of us has the right to choose a personal physician, but when it comes to our chimney, we have no right to do so. At the time, it is now so that the concession determines who this chimney is and because it is a relationship that is traditional, especially in smaller places where there was a personal relationship, it would actually be right to consider it. So I would like to ask you a further question: How long do you plan to review the existing ratios as you predicted? How long will a hand be known, framed? I think it's another smart way that can be relatively fast, examining the price of services, the frequency of services. There's a lot of resentment over it, and I think you can sort this thing out very quickly. The bottom line, the last thing I'm interested in is: Do you think it is necessary to change this concept and to enable a permit system in this area by amending legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you for asking. I must say that we will try to go as fast as possible into these changes in frequency prices and so on, even as far as revisions are concerned. I hope we can do all of this within three months. About the concept. I think somewhere by autumn this concept would be clear. I have to say it again. Here are the concession contracts, there are certain obligations of the State and we need to examine this matter very carefully legally in order not to pay any large compensation later. However, the original orientation is how to improve this system within this system. Because we personally see the problem of not doing everything right as it should be. I don't believe that the concept of concessions is fundamentally wrong. But I don't think the implementation of this concept was optimal. It is with the work of this working group that we want to identify all these shortcomings. It is true, however, that in this study we will also examine what another concept, as mentioned, is, licensed or perhaps to return to this public service at local level. However, I must say that there would also be some problems here, because the past teaches us that this concept was also not the best. In some congregations this service was very successful and quality, while in some other congregations this matter did not work. And from there came this transfer at the state level, but I think that some of the interests here were so strong that in fact there was no implementation of the concept as we all would like. This is: that we have a quality service for some normal even and absolutely fire safety that we all want.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, ministers, fellow Members of Parliament. In Slovenia, the process of recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a business excellence has been successful for 12 years. Progress has been made in the management and management of organisations in the private and public sectors, since as many as three Slovenian winners have also been ranked as finalists at European level. However, in 2007 and 2008, there were no procedures for implementing the provisions of the Law on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence and thus for the development of quality in this field. This shows a shift from the values of ethics and culture of developed European countries. And I ask the esteemed Minister Golobic: What will he do to regulate these situations so that we can remain active as Slovenia in this path of European excellence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u111	Mr. Golobic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. In fact, it is a discontinuity, which is not in fact an honour that has happened, with the addition that this award was awarded in 2007, or late in December, it was received by Krka, d.d., from New City. However, this was indeed left out in 2008. When I tried to reconstruct why this unloved outburst had actually occurred, I found that the mandate of the Committee on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence had expired in October 2007. In the next few months, the Department of Metrology, which actually leads or follows this activity, submitted a proposal to appoint a new committee in accordance with the law, but the Government unfortunately did not deal with it until the second half of July 2008. And even after this committee was appointed, it was not until last October 21st. And he decided at this first meeting that he would skip 2008 and actually give the prize next time, only in 2009, that is this year. This is, in my opinion, a really bad message for the content and dimension of this activity, which is very important for both companies and the public sector in Slovenia, and should be adequately built and promoted and promoted. This reward serves to a large extent and has been recognized as such in the past. Over the next few weeks, the Government will appoint a new Committee for the Award of Business Excellence Awards of the Republic of Slovenia, which will run all award procedures in the year and year ahead. So there is no plan, or anything will be done, that this award will be awarded this year and that this broken line will be restored.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of the Interior will be raised by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! As an introduction to my question, I will refer to the 1997 case. Of course, I do not expect to be held accountable for the 1997 cases, however. Two significant events took place in 1997. The first was the killing of four people in the Running Man; we all know very much about it, and the media has written about it. The matter has not yet been investigated. In fact, somewhere in the same time period, with the difference of a few weeks, we had a dispute between the then vice-president of the government and Ivan Zidar, specifically, the director of the SCT. First thing, we know that murder is the worst crime, and secondly, we know that it is a violation of public order and peace. However, the priority of resolution at the interior ministry at the time, I stress that the Police Act had not yet been in force, at least today's law, no, was the following. The murder was committed by criminals with secondary education from Celje, at least for the first 10 to 15 days, with the case of a violation of public order and peace described by me, and the criminal service at state level, that is, the top of the criminal police. This was also the reason why the writers of the Police Act wrote articles 6 and 9 of the Police Act, where we somehow wrote down that if a lower level, this is a police station, it cannot be staffed, organisational and so on, it is taken over by the police administration. And similarly, from the police administration, he takes over the top of the police until the police administration can do so, and it is still in articles 6 and 9 of the Police Act, the last paragraphs. Of course, we could say that the solution or prioritization was somehow a wrong world. Therefore, it is no wonder that criminals with high school wrote down; of course, I do not judge them; they had to do it, and it was good that they did it as they did; they wrote the number 43 in copat instead of 42. And then Christian Kamenik, we know how he travels from court to court and is not yet convicted or aware of the perpetrator of this very serious crime. Of course, we also wrote Article 2 of the Police Act. Article 2 of the Police Act gives the Minister a very clear mandate to provide appropriate guidance for the work of the police. That's why I'm asking you: What guidance do you give to the police or how many have you given to them under Section 2 of the Police Act? Of course, I would expect or expect these guidelines to be such as to solve, direct police to work after organised crime, corruption after the most serious crimes. Let me just remind you that the situation is such that due to police work last year, let's say a tower in Brnik, now offer 9 instead of 16 million, which is just good police work. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, if you'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u116	Dear Presidents! The situation in this area at the time of my appointment was everything before the optimum. This is not my political assessment, these are the findings of the survey and the analysis that was carried out in January of this year among all economic criminals. On the basis of these findings and with the full support of the General Police Administration and the Administration of the Criminal Police, we immediately carried out the following measures. We have ensured in March that criminals have access to the key information bases they need in their work, for example, IVS-INFO, although it is almost unbelievable that they did not have it before. In mid-April, there will be a special portal of e-governments and police websites where citizens will be able to report corruption anonymously. Together with the Ministry of Justice and the General Police Administration, we have prepared a new law on criminal proceedings. This goes into the legislative process as early as April and has two key innovations. The first is to establish clear procedures and give the police important powers in the investigation of electronic data carriers such as computers, optical media and so on. Secondly, the law introduces the possibility of establishing investigative groups in which police and other competent national authorities and institutions would participate in the investigation of worse forms of crime, especially economic crime and corruption under the leadership of the State Prosecutor, in the areas of taxes, customs, financial transactions, securities, competition protection, money laundering, anti-corruption, illicit drugs and inspection. I signed the Act on Change of Systematisation in the Police today, after which, in the coming months, at the state level and in the four largest police administrations, the Information Technology Investigations Departments will be formed. A new programme of joint training in economic crime is also being prepared. The shocking fact is that the majority of economic criminals have received an average of all two days of training over the past few years. We are starting our first training in financial investigations and public procurement by the end of April. I wonder why the previous government, in the four years it has had, has not done what the new Ministry of the Interior and the General Police Administration could have done in less than half a year. I don't know where you live, Mr. Gorenak, if you're saying there's been a clear delay in dealing with serious crimes. In recent months alone, there have been several developments against the worst forms of economic crime. The number of suspects was much higher than the year before. The first months of 2009 show a particularly positive trend in the investigation of economic crime. The police's official information is that 86% of the found and investigated property damage increased. This clearly points to the police's orientation towards dealing with, above all, severe economic violations that generate much property damage or benefit. The only reason that you may have been left behind, Mr Gorenak, is that, unlike previous years, the police have abandoned the practice of making arrests in front of the media. The police could be proud of the fact that the last large-scale investigations in the case of Patrie, the tax wheel, the corruption of certain public officials in certain administrative units took place professionally, and that no data had escaped from the types of investigators that would allow television cameras to be seen on the sites before the criminals. On the second part of your question, however, I inform you that it was by decision of 3. 2. 2009 appointed working group to prepare a project of conceptual changes to the organisation and the work of the criminal police at the national and regional level. It is a strong project group that brings together internal and external experts. Among them are, for example, four former and current director of the Crime Service and, of course, many others. We have received inspiration for a similar body in Scandinavian countries, Finland or Norway. The interim results of the working group will be presented to the public once the working group has finished its work. Before that, other supervisory institutions shall also be involved, directly or indirectly, in the work of the National Investigation Office envisaged. By 30 April this year, we will have a comprehensive laboratory with concrete organisational, legal and human resources solutions. On the basis of these proposals, further decisions will be taken and it is realistic to expect the work of the revised organisation to be fully carried out on 1 January 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak. You want a supplement? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I didn't attack you in my question, but I was very polite and gentle with you, and you attacked me, so you can't expect me to be gentle with you. Of course, setting up a department doesn't mean anything. You've got the crime police, go look at the police administrations -- literally partisan troikas. That means the boss and the two criminals, the secretary, but he's the boss, and the criminals aren't. You can take a look. Secondly, that data does not escape from the police species. I don't know where that information came from about Mrs. Barbara Brezigar. I don't know where else to come from, like from the police?Oh, my God! And go ahead. I'd like to ask you the following questions. One of the members of that world said to me, "Yeah, for now, for once, I don't know what I'm doing there. If I'm just gonna be there behind the scenes, then I'm not going there anymore." So much for that terrible strategic world. In other words, the investigation of crimes has increased from 39% to 47% in the past four years. Our government has accepted a 39% investigation, handed you a 47.8% mend. I'm talking about everything, of course. The situation has improved in all areas, from 2004 to 2008. I would be very happy if you, with your actions, would also improve the situation. I will, of course, find praiseworthy words for your term of office, as long as there is sufficient evidence to do so. But let's go back to our priorities. At the time of the election campaign, you were talking about the "methyl" affair of Maretica Rupel and so on. I do not mind at all that the director of the criminal police has reopened an investigation, so at least I see in the media, because I stress that every person in this country has been investigated if there is any suspicion of that. However, on March 6th he said he was satisfied with the findings of the internal investigation. On 9 March, however, he was no longer satisfied, initiating a new investigation. I wonder if you've given him a bit of a sorry look, like you used to to to the deputy, or what happened. But I don't mind, I emphasize. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u119	I guess I don't have to tell Mr. Gorenak that you were unkind and incorrect in your answer. But you didn't ask any questions about the supplement. If the Minister wants to explain something, may I? Madam Secretary, if you'd like to answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u120	Maybe just for a little while, because what I understand are some interesting insights in the bereaved eyes. I can only say what I have said several times since I took over the Ministry of the Interior, the police know and have all the conditions for an independent and professionally highly open job. I am not giving instructions for specific operational matters myself. I'm aware, unlike before, that I'm not even allowed to give such instructions, nor does it occur to me, and it was the same in the matter you were talking about. However, if you have listened carefully to my previous presentation, the specific issues that have been taken in the field of economic crime have been huge in the first four to five months. The main focus, however, is the organisation of a special national investigative bureau, which will operate in an organisational and also separate way, of course, consisting of the best top and well-educated criminals who will do their job, I believe, extremely effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I ask for a debate under Article 246(2), Mr President, so that there is no open question why I have returned. Of course, once again, I stress what I have said, I do not object to any kind of investigation, because I know that this is necessary, even if it is a matter of public exposure. However, it seems to me that the former, not the present, not the future minister or the Director-General of the Police has nothing to do with this. This is a matter of the Ljubljana Police Administration, such a criminal who completes an education that can sum up the price of petrol, transported miles and so on and determines whether or not it is a crime and writes an indictment against anyone in this country and here I see no need to deal with it, Mr. Goršek, and order a re-investigation. It's a criminal matter. He better be dealing with the most serious crime. But I welcome what you say if this is to be done in the way that this is to be done. But I'm really afraid, based on the data that comes to me, it's not always like that. As I said, some members of that world don't know why they're there, that's what I specifically stressed, and it's right that they're going to leave. I think it's a little funny that this is happening. The second is that I really do not see that, and on the basis of statistics for three months of your mandate, we would also find it difficult to identify some trends over the longer term, so I would like to assess the work of Mr Gorška or your work for a longer period of not one month or two months, but, however, I think it is necessary to say what we say in the general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow after the end of the agenda items scheduled for consideration and decision-making. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Justice is selling land, real estate. In the cadastral municipality of Miklavž in the Drava Field, it sells land with a plot number 1966/4 and 1966/7 of 1346 meters and a land with a plot number 1966/6 of 3823 meters. The Ministry of Justice was able to assess plots 1966/4 and 1966/7 1343 m, where the economic premises are also useful, one 385 m and the other 587 m. The valuer, together with a well-known buyer, inspected the property and assessed the land by taking into account the destruction of the building of EUR 23 per square metre, which is unusual. In the assessment, it is obvious that it is designed to sell to a particular customer, since it is not normal for the value of the land to reflect the value of the destruction of objects of usable value. The plot 1966/6 3823 m was also assessed, an unwalled building plot that is expected to have a price of EUR 17 per m. The estimated value of land 5169 m' together with the facilities is estimated to be 96 000 014 euros, representing 18.50 euros per square metre. The real market value of land for economic activity in the cadastral municipality of Miklavž is between EUR 130 and 150 per square metre. The company that used these facilities employs closed persons. Real estate is of great importance for the continuation of the functioning of the company and for employment as well. As long as the sale is not made at market value and so the necessary investment in the expansion of the company’s production capacity is not made, it is better that the same company benefits the establishments further for livestock purposes. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How is it possible that the country, as a good owner and owner of these properties, sells them at a price, almost gives them a gift, while we all have to tighten our belts and contribute to the state's treasury to be filled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u125	Mr. Minister, Dr. Lakhovnik, excuse me, Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u126	No doctor. Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Member, I thank you for the question raised, which is relevant. I've been looking into this particular case, and I've found out the following. In this case, the Miklavž case in the Drava Field is not for sale at this time. But at the moment, the state is in the process of finding an agreement, that is, seeking an agreement with the settlement, with the company Contrast. This company filed an action against the Ministry of Justice in 2004 requiring this action to reimburse the investments in the facility it had rented from 1993 to 1999, when it purchased the property. On the basis of this action, the possibility of settlement was tested by the Ministry, in return for these investments to the debtor, to transfer ownership rights in three parcels, which you also correctly listed as a total of 5,196 square metres, with two economic facilities located in the immediate vicinity of this company, Contrast on Miklavž, which would need to be extended to expand economic activity. The Ministry of Justice does not need these properties for its business and the company has already established a service right in one part of these properties. I mentioned the lawsuit. In this case, in relation to these investment values, the Maribor District Court established an expert to determine the amount of these investments. The expert assessed these investments to total EUR 63.147.27. However, since the Court considered this value to be too high, it requested a supplement to the expert opinion. The deadline for submitting this amendment to the opinion expires on 3 April 2009, and therefore we do not yet have the information on this amendment. At the same time, the valuation of the land that you mentioned was estimated at only EUR 23 per square metre for two parcels and EUR 17 per square metre. The Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, or the Ministry of Justice, also disagrees with this evaluation, so that a new evaluation will also be necessary in this part. The settlement does not yet have any less sales of these properties, and I can assure you that the follow-up procedure will be carried out in accordance with the Real Estate Act of the State, the municipalities and the provinces, which means that in any event the Government will decide on this matter, which must decide under Article 14 of this Law in the event that the property is above the value of EUR 20,000. In general, I also assure you that the Ministry of Justice, with the real estate it has in use, has a real estate plan with the real estate of the State for the authorities of the State and the judicial authorities, which the Government has recently prepared and adopted, and which, according to my information, has also been dealt with by the National Assembly. In addition, I should point out that the relatively large amount of property managed by the Ministry of Justice is related to the decision of the former Government when, on the basis of the acquisition of these properties, it was attempted to provide a purchase on the market and to finance the construction of a new court palace in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I've got a little extra work to do. The sale is intended for a well-known buyer and is probably also agreed upon. Because it is impossible to sell at a price of EUR 17 when we know that the market price is between EUR 130 and 150. This land lies in the very center of Miklavž, very interesting for everyone. I must point out that in all this matter the useful objects have not yet been taken into account, but were envisaged for demolition. The cost of demolition is to be deducted from the value of land, which is completely illogical, this is not happening anywhere. With such a sale, the country would be damaged for a good EUR 677 000, only from land sales. By not being evaluated at all, the facilities of 972 m are usable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I didn't understand the complementary question to the answer you're asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u130	I can make it up to you. Does justice have any such plots because the Miklavzans would like to buy them so cheap?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u131	Here you go, Mr. Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u132	Well, I wouldn't be calling these properties out here, not on Miklavz or anywhere else. Once again, I would like to reiterate that there has been no sale, that we do not agree with the appreciation that we are demanding that new valuations be made for all the properties mentioned here. And I certainly will not allow any damage to the state's property to occur as a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings are given to ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! As you have already mentioned, I will ask the question to the esteemed Minister of Economy, Mr Matthew Lahovnik. In today's global crisis, Slovenia has leverage to mitigate the consequences of this crisis. It has a project to establish economic centres. The nine economic centres in Slovenia represent the possibility of developing innovative enterprises, the possibility of developing entrepreneurship on solid foundations and the possibility of establishing research and technology cores. The aim of the economic centres is to develop an innovative environment that will provide competitive locations that will facilitate and increase the efficiency of the transfer of knowledge from domestic and foreign environments to market products. Cooperation between research and economic spheres will be ensured, fostering the creation of high technological potential enterprises, promoting creativity, innovation, competitiveness, and, above all, new jobs. Economic centres have emerged from the trend towards development and with a view to a faster intervention of the development gap between the underdeveloped and developed regions. That is why knowledge, innovation, integration, and an encouraging recovery of the environment are needed. Economic centres provide the basis, infrastructure for ideas development, for innovative individuals or groups. We also have an economic centre in Pomurje, within which a network business zone project is prepared, comprising three municipalities, the municipality of Murska Sobota, the municipality of Gornja Radgona and the municipality of Ljutomer. The project has a regional consensus and is ready to be implemented. Given the situation in the region, we would urgently need the support of the country in order to carry out the project in the interest of Prlekov and Prekmurec, and especially Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, When and from what address will the Ministry of Economy support the economic centres' projects? Secondly: How will the projects of the economic centres be supported? For what purposes will funds be made available? Who will be entitled to these funds? Thank you very much for your answer, in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u135	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Following a review of the state of implementation of the projects identified in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023, the Ministry of Economy found that the planned activities for the construction of nine economic centres had not been carried out in accordance with the plan in the last two years. Therefore, at the Ministry in the first place, we decided to undertake a thorough review of the situation and to think carefully about further activities in the field of the implementation of this project. In February, we have already held a meeting with all regional representatives, including those mentioned by all individual economic centres. Together, we checked the situation on the projects and tried to harmonise further activities. We believe that it is essential to determine whether the projects put in place are real, what obstacles they face in achieving the objectives in individual regions and whether the projects set out in the resolution are also feasible. And, of course, how can we highlight priority projects that are already ready and suitable for implementation. On the basis of the discussions, we are already preparing an assessment of the situation and key orientation and a plan for the implementation of the Economic Centres project, both in terms of content and, of course, from a financial point of view. The objective is, of course, to make the most of these funds for those projects that contribute to the development of the regional objectives set. In these activities, we also intend to connect with other ministries in the field, with the aim of the Ministry of Economy preparing an appropriate development framework on which the development of economic centres will be based. The basic starting points for the preparation and support of individual projects will certainly be the contribution, as I said, to achieving the development objectives of the region and the business interest shown in the implementation of the project. That's the key. Where there is no business interest in the implementation of the project, there is, of course, a great question whether such a project can be implemented, as a rule, not. We certainly aim to encourage the implementation of those projects that are development-oriented, supported by a good and concrete implementation plan that has well-known and credible project promoters, concrete projects. Our aim is to use all available resources in a way that will ensure the achievement of the development goals of Slovenia, including those regional, balanced objectives that contribute to coherent regional development. With an additional €185 million available from the Structural Funds to co-finance the economic centres projects by 2013, and we anticipate that, on the basis of an assessment of the situation, they could start with the preparation of appropriate instruments for co-financing projects in May and their implementation in the second half of the year. Thus, according to these assumptions, as we said, appropriate co-financing instruments would be prepared in May and in the second half of the year thereafter. I would point out, however, that it seemed right and sensible for us to first examine the overall situation, particularly in relation to the representatives of the economic centres. In times of economic crisis, we must certainly try to take advantage of the opportunities that economic centres can offer. I fully agree with you here. We can explore the possibility of developing entrepreneurship and try to establish research centres where knowledge flows, to extract healthy cores, in particular the developmental technological cores that contribute to the development of the economy and in which new jobs will be created. However, at the Ministry of the Economy, we will certainly strive to ensure that the resources available are distributed as efficiently as possible, giving priority to development-oriented projects with high added value, which will also be of business interest, as this is also a guarantee that these projects are in some way economically viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very specific. In Lutomer we have an interest, we have an investor, we have a foreign capital, we have a wall plan, just before the betrayal, and now the municipality has no money and expects us to get this business zone to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The aim of all European and Slovenian energy policies is to increase energy efficiency, the share of renewables in final consumption, the reduction of CO2 emissions, as well as the response to the changed situation in the electricity market. Indeed, we are witnessing lower electricity prices, reduced electricity consumption and more available electricity sources both at home and in the region. All of this calls for some strategic consideration and a revision of the National Energy Programme, which is a central national strategic energy document. In particular, a revised national energy policy is needed before we make a final decision and, despite all global trends, we give priority to investments in fossil resources that will require more than a billion euros, a quarter of the highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. Slovenian energy resources. Certainly, Slovenia should not allow that, as a result of this, it is said, such a great deal of commitment to funds, to reduce other investments in a significantly smaller footprint of CO2 in renewable resources and in the efficient use of energy. All of this gave a tone to the debate and also led the members of the Strategic Energy Council, which was held under the auspices of the new government, to take a virtually unanimous initiative at the meeting to move the Government as quickly as possible towards amending the National Energy Plan. It is crucial, however, that the amendment of the NEP be prepared by the Government and that the National Assembly adopts before the implementation of individual projects, which must only be the result of such a modified energy policy. I ask the Minister of Finance in particular about the financial pay of this huge investment. I want to know: What is the exact value of this investment? Various information appears in the media. And: How many of these will foreign partners or equipment suppliers receive and how many Slovenian companies? What is the value of the signed contract with Alstom's equipment supplier? The contract is supposed to be signed by TEŠ or holding company, I don't know who. What is the exact financial structure of this project? What is the estimated own price of electricity produced in this newly created block 6? For Ten, I am particularly interested in the specification of this price, according to the part of the price resulting from the price of coal, then at the cost of operating and maintaining at the thermal power plant itself, the costs of system services, the costs of financing, the costs of CO2 vouchers and other costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Križanič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you for the in-depth question. It doesn't belong in my department, but my associates have collected the relevant information I have prepared. At the outset, I would say that from my analytical experience I know how the development of investments in the electricity network has been carried out. It came from the fact that the entities that operated this network, both production and transport, were primarily part of the infrastructure, were mainly state-owned, both in the developed world and in the less developed world. In time, with a transition to a higher level of development of the market system, they began to become self-contained, to act on a market, not on a budgetary basis. And in this context, we, with the acquis community, have taken over the energy market through our approach and modernisation in the process of Europeanisation or entry into the European Union. In the energy market, it has been shown in this specific area of electricity production and transport that there is a markedly long delay in the response of economic operators to the market situation, a period of time when the price falls, due to the effects of liberalisation and increased competition, the impulses to build new facilities and to modernise networks are lost, and then, when it comes from bottlenecks and shortages, it takes 3 to 5, sometimes 10 years to normalise the situation again. In this context, crises of so-called electric eclipses, black outs, have emerged as modern crises. The closest to us was Italy, and such a crisis could hit Slovenia in the future if we did not respond properly. Why isn't she here? When preparing for market introduction we introduced a very strong, capital-strong, organisational firm, holding Slovenian power plants, which also has a long time horizon of its decisions and has taken up a whole range of investment activities. Minister Vizjak knows them, so I won't list them, which some are finished, some will be finished in these years and some new ones will be started. In this context, a diversified system of resources is being built, in addition to renewable resources, including resources for the production of thermal power plants either on gas or on coal. And in this way, a stable offer acts as a strong regional player in this market. He is also a desirable borrower, so there is no problem in financing these projects. One of these projects is also the concept of modernisation of the power plant in Šostanje. In this regard, my colleagues have now collected some information that I will try to provide quickly. Let us tell this High Council, however, that the decision to build this bloc has been taken under the Ministry of Mr Andrej Visiak. The investment was included in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 100th regular meeting on 7. 12. 2006. The aim of this project was to ensure the safe and quality supply of electricity in Slovenia, as an alternative to the construction of a large gas steam power plant in Kidrič per natural gas. But this power plant turned out to be too risky. This winter has also shown how painful it is if you are too dependent on unsafe imports and one supplier alone. The property of this power plant is for the first time to increase the production volume of electricity and for the second time to reduce relative exhaust emissions or relative CO2 emissions. At the megawatt hour, this outbreak of existing blocks is less than 35%. So if the rest of the blocks shut down, it will work, and the total release will actually be 35% smaller than it was. Since time drives me to answer the question of the current value of the investment, it is a billion EUR 130 million. It is expected to be reduced by €200 million to €900 million, the value of the signed contract with Alstom is €798 million. It is expected to be reduced by EUR 200 million due to the lower price of raw materials, in particular iron, steel and the like. The exact financial structure according to the plan is 50% of the European Investment Bank's loan; this is practically confirmed, we are still doing DVDs; 20% are supposed to be commercial loans and the rest are own funds. HSE is likely to issue bonds for the whole part. Price design: €2.25 per giga joule [[GJ]] Get the Tash. Maintenance costs will be €9 million per year at the expense of activities. Costs [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u143	Mr. Secretary, your time has run out. It's automatically shut down. I would suggest to Mr Mag. A visionary to give an answer to the minister in writing because he didn't. [[....]] You're simply asking for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u144	I believe Minister Križanič will answer all my questions. Time got ahead of him. Once again, I stress the essence of the question. In the energy market, not only in the energy market in general, the situation has changed with the adoption of a climate-energy package of directives, which, last but not least, requires the Government to make an action plan for investments in renewable sources by June 2010. In fact, the essence of this new energy package is a change in the concept of the heads and in energy policy makers in Europe. In fact, Slovenia needs to provide 25% of renewables in final consumption, we need to reduce CO2 emissions by 2020 and we need to significantly increase energy efficiency. In addition, the market situation has changed. And that's why I think a new strategic thought is needed, and I'm advocating an investment in Block 6, because I think it's good because it's exploiting a domestic fossil resource and I will always defend it. However, I think that before we go to such a mega investment, it is necessary to revise this, especially since it employs such high resources, to consider whether or not they might reduce this investment by 100, 200 megawatts [[MW]] . So change the national energy plan and then invest in it. Because I see Minister Križanič has passed the key points of the question. This is what I have already specified in my written, written, announcement with the emphasis that the structure of this price should tell me at the produced megawatt hour of electricity without having on one side of the mega joule and on the other, I do not know what else can be summed up. My assessment is that this investment will have a significant impact on the price of electricity and that we will no longer witness such phenomena as we have now, that we also have suppliers selling 10% below the price of others.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you for your kindness for asking me another question so I can finish. If we skip everything else and go to the price structure, what was desirable was the price structure for paying the entire quota of EUR 25 per tonne of discharge. In this case, it would be €79 million per year in the budget. Half would be earmarked for improving energy efficiency, for afforestation and development of renewable resources. So it looks like - €65.90 per megahour would be the total price. In doing so, we must bear in mind that the European price has also increased at this price of CO2 quotas. The coal price would be 19.4 euros per megawatt-hour, maintenance costs of 2.58 euros per megawatt-hour, maintenance costs of 2.58 euros per megawatt-hour, financing costs of 8.88 euros per megawatt-hour, costs of CO2 coupons of 22.96 euros per megawatt-hour, costs of system services in this case, amortisation of 7.22 euros per megawatt-hour and other costs of 4.86 euros per megawatt-hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers. I am pleased that the Minister for the Economy and the Environment is here, because this is a very broad project, and I think it is also good that the Minister for Education is here. In the face of all this, this very important, I would say, reflection in the future. I am pleased that the fellow Member Bogovic has also raised the question of the mission in the same direction. This is because before we go into an investment that will be in force, we will consider and incorporate this project into the country's strategic documents after a signed contract with a French supplier of EUR 738 million. Things have changed. Slovenia has committed itself to achieving climate and energy objectives. Therefore, it is more than necessary to consider and integrate this project into all other energy projects. Finally, this debate can help the Government to change national energy policy and to put other projects in place. I am sure that if we are on all these loans; most of the funds are planned for credit; building this energy project will run out of money for other investments in the necessary renewable resources. You can forget the provisions that speak of photovoltaics in the coalition contract. Other projects are also questionable, renewable resources in hydro power plants, both in central Sava and in Mura. The question is, what happens to the use of wood biomass and the like? And one thing, everyone else, when we talk about biomass and hydropower, all the other investments "engage" the domestic economy. For example, in the construction of the lower-Sava chain, 75% of the domestic economy is included in the project, Litostroj part of the turbine, construction operation and also equipment suppliers are domestic. However, this investment is mainly for foreign suppliers. As the minister says, it has already signed a contract of EUR 740 million. I therefore propose that, as Vice-President, honourable ministers and honourable Members coming from different regions after Slovenia, it is, last but not least, the energy policy of all regions that we must decide together on these upcoming challenges and that, with one project going through the amended resolution, we do not harm both national energy policy and those who will end up paying for this electricity. I therefore propose a debate on these answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor to ask the Minister for Education and Sport the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you. Honourable Vice-President, Madam Minister, Honourable Ministers, Dear Members and Members of Parliament! Each of us is asked different questions about our mission and our operation. Among other things, I feel like I'm next. As long as we do not have the provinces, we expect individual ministries to take better care of coherent regional development. The opinion on the uneven co-financing of investments across parts of Slovenia, especially between Maribor and Ljubljana, that Maribor is wronged, is not only the opinion of individuals, but it feels in several areas and items in our budget. The majority of the budget balance items do not show how much of the funds will belong to which municipality. For example, the share of the funds allocated to Ljubljana and Maribor can only be very easily compared on the items of programmes in culture, investment in the field of culture. It is clear that in order to regulate the basic spatial conditions for certain central public institutions in the field of culture between 2009 and 2013, EUR 37.5 million is allocated to the Municipality of Ljubljana. Only EUR 626 000 for the city of Maribor. The issue of regional balance, investment priorities and the level of resources allocated is raised. Dear Minister Dr. Luksic. You have performed a lot in public recently in connection with the University of Maribor. During your statements, it was often followed by the word rationalisation, the economic crisis and so on. Somehow I thought the project was getting in trouble. More or less because it is Maribor and not Ljubljana. Since you like to talk about rationalisation because of the crisis and so on, I ask you: On the basis of what, and on the basis of which legal acts, you have inserted items into the 2009 National Budget Development Programmes Plan: Kolezija Bath, Skier Stock, Lighting The Way of Remembrance and Society in Ljubljana and so on. It's just a few items that encouraged me to ask you a question. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u151	Mr. Minister, Dr. Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u152	The Presidents, Members, Members, Ministers and Ministers. Thank you for asking. First of all, this basic framework. As you know, as soon as we started the mandate, I also went to the Universities, among other things, and I immediately put forward a proposal for a special item that the Government had already received in early February; therefore, it was not possible before; it was not possible for three million to pay for accession. At the same time, I immediately took the call of the organisational committee, which adopted the most important decision at the time of the constitution, which allowed the delegation of the Student Sports Organisation to go to the university, which was also a meeting of the Summit of the Federation of Sport Organizations of the World and where they could legitimately speak of being prepared for the next step. So, as Minister, I did everything in my power that the story with the university went on. What I have been working towards right now is that 305 million, as the university project was at the time, is reduced to a minimum, and then we came to this decision, which was adopted by the National Assembly in March 2008, which provides for about 15 million and some fixed funds. Now, on this direct question of yours, where are the bases? An invitation to tender for the collection of proposals for co-financing of investments in new construction and updating of sport infrastructure for 2009, 2010, 2011 was published in June 2008. So this was the invitation issued by the previous government. And this invitation was also opened by the Municipality of Ljubljana, received some funds, very little depending on the total value of the investments, so between €50 and €100,000 was granted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 30. 9. 2008 certificates by Decision No 41013-94/2008/3, i.e. 30. 9. has adopted a decision on the inclusion of these investments in the programme and therefore, on the basis of these conclusions, this Government has included these investments in the budget balance. So, it is not a war between Maribor and Ljubljana, it is a process that is in play and which also does not mean a substantial donation of funds to Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Fish, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u154	I'd like to thank you for your efforts regarding the university. In Styria we expect your good cooperation in advance as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor. He will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u156	Chairman, thank you very much. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to members and members of the government. Some time ago, I sent an open-source initiative with two fellow Members of Parliament, including the Ministry of Public Administration, an initiative on open-source or more, in which we proposed to explore the possibility of a gradual transition of the information system from licensed software packages to open-source software - and therefore perhaps cheaper. This transition would be gradual, not to be carried out with a so-called big bang, at the same time, in order to make the posture and also more dangerous from the point of view of the security and stability of the information system, but could be gradual; for example, it could start by simply changing browsers such as the Internet Explorer for an open source solution, or mail customers, or, for example, office tools such as Microsoft Office, for open source and free of charge, such as the Open Office - a fully established and standard and stable alternative. Only later would we consider the possibility that Windows's operating system might be replaced by something open-sourced. We also received a response from your ministry, where a largely analysis of the situation was made, and there was a clear absence of a strategic view or absence of a plan to pursue further development of the information system and also how to address the possibility of transition to an open code. I therefore ask: How much has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry paid for licences for all Microsoft software packages and for all software packages in full over the last ten years? I wonder: What is the total cost of ownership - in English so-called "Total cost of ownership" - for the use of Microsoft software packages and for all software packages in full? In addition, I am particularly interested in: Does the Ministry of Public Administration have a strategy that must be based on a certain perspective and knowledge of the situation? I am aware that this strategy is not a matter of two, three months, but of multi-annual planning, because public procurement should also be planned in this direction. And since this view is not available to us in public, I would like to know: Is there or is there planning to develop such a strategy within the Ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u157	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable, Your Honor. Each serious country has an electronic development strategy. We do not have the moment in the Republic of Slovenia in the direction of which you asked us in writing. And I regret to inform you that I also do not know how to answer your question. So, on the question of how much has the Republic of Slovenia paid for licensed software on all computers in the past ten years or in the previous year. It is incontrovertible, I tell you only the reason for this, that individual budget users are fully independent in the implementation of their information plans. The Ministry of Public Administration, as in 2004, when it was established, conceived its operations, cooperated only in the area of the common information structure of the public authorities, which includes h-com, the common data centre, that is, the central computer, and joint projects and joint procurement where individual ministries with the Ministry of Public Administration so agree. On this basis, we can clearly see that individual budget users are not obliged to provide data on the implementation of the information plan to our ministry, so we do not have data on the use of information resources by body. It is true that our ministry has been tasked by the Government with drawing up a plan to inform the public authorities, but this plan only includes a collection of needs and planned amounts for consumption purposes. However, the Ministry of Public Administration is not obliged to monitor the implementation of the adopted information plan. All of this actually makes it impossible for us, as the competent ministry, to transmit the data you asked me about. However, in my opinion, it is unacceptable that in the Republic of Slovenia this moment does not have a body that would gather this data in one place in its entirety and on the basis of such data collected and, of course, the "total cost of ownership" of the analysis assessed the effectiveness, efficiency of individual projects implemented in the Republic. That is why, immediately at the time of the start of the mandate, while aware of all these shortcomings, the informationisation and introduction of processes and, last but not least, the inability of individual budget users to communicate their equipment with one another, which is a condition for rationalising administrative processes, we have approached the preparation of an electronic business development strategy and the exchange of data between individual budget users in the Republic of Slovenia. Since we do not even have an analysis of the situation which is the basis for a really good resolution, we have also come to an analysis of the situation on all the issues that are important, that such a strategy will continue to be feasible and that the action plan resulting from it, on the other hand, will ultimately bring about a balanced development in the area of e-commerce in the Republic of Slovenia. In this analysis, we will also collect all of these data, which you repay and which are essential for each country and which we have provided to you on this occasion. In preparing the strategy, however, I invite you to cooperate, because every view, including a view of the use of new approaches, is extremely welcome at all in terms of long-term development. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenia in this area. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I must say, I am surprised that the Ministry of Public Administration or the state does not know how much it pays for its information system. Every smallest company, I believe it knows which computers and what software every employee has. I am aware that this reflects, in particular, the lack of views on this issue by the previous governments, not only the previous but also the previous governments. I therefore hope that you will actually be able to obtain this data by analysing the situation; I know that red tape is sometimes very stubborn here. I'm counting on you to mediate them. And I recommend, as I believe, that there are also many of my colleagues or co-workers involved in the preparation of this strategy, because I think we could save a few million euros a year in Slovenia and channel the payment of certain licenses to other countries, to pay for Slovenian domestic knowledge and Slovenian information research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor, which will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! All the ministers so far have found that the Savinja basin is the most threatened to have an advantage, but there was not much to promise. I understand the saving of the government and the budget as well, but I cannot understand that it is being saved where citizens are at risk and thus their jobs - I am thinking mainly of industrial zones and so on. In recent years, natural disasters have not spared even Slovenia. Legislation in this area has been complemented, additional funds have been provided and there is no real impact on the ground. Therefore, I ask you, Minister Erjavec, to state the reasons: Why is today the flood safety of the most endangered river in Slovenia not guaranteed? What are your ministry's plans for the rehabilitation of the Savinja River? It is still awaiting recovery after the floods that occurred back in the last century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you so much for asking. What are the reasons why, until today, sufficient resources have not been provided to regulate flood safety in Slovenia, there is probably no need to discuss it in particular. But in the last 18 years, and even before that, little has been invested in this area of flood safety. It is true that the Savinja River is one of the most endangered areas where flood safety is the weakest. We can also see that floods are very common here, for example, in the last 18 years we have had 5 major floods: 1990, 1998, 2000, 2005, 2007. It is true, however, that at all times the State is investing only in recovery in the sense of remedying the damage and correcting the most urgent. More arrangements have not yet been made for some comprehensive flood safety provision. However, such an intervention also requires appropriate spatial acts such as the State Spatial Plan. I must say that, as far as this is concerned, we are intensively preparing these spatial bases, namely the State Spatial Plan for the Arrangement of Savinja from Light to Letus, then the provision of flood safety Lights. I must say, somehow we are counting on these two state spatial plans to be adopted somewhere in early 2010. Then we have the State Spatial Plan for the Lower Savinja Valley, and here I must say that if everything goes well, this State Spatial Plan will be adopted sometime at the end of 2010. There will be a problem because there are nine restraints planned and you know the debate around these restraints. I must say, I don't see any major professional problems here. It is also a matter of public acceptance of such insurance. Because if we want a comprehensive arrangement, we need to first arrange the trough of Savinja itself, then build retainers and also high-water embankments. As I said, the lack of resources is the main reason why this issue has not yet been fully resolved. As regards the recovery following the floods for 2007, 3 million €300,000 was provided last year, 8 million €266 is provided for this year as foreseen under the programme to address these consequences, but this part of €3.2 million is provided for in the rebalancing. However, I must say that we have increased the item relating to the cleaning of the Savinja basin and that an additional 5 million 500,000 are provided there, corresponding to the number of 8 million 266 as planned for recovery in 2009. This recovery, however, will end in the following year, where we have to provide approximately EUR 5 million in the 2010 budget. As regards the state spatial plans to fully regulate flood security, let me say that a specific programme will be adopted for the period 2010-2015 and we will be here, together with budgetary resources, that is to say, by means of our own participation, we will also provide European resources for once to fully address this problem. However, the pre-condition is the adoption of all three State spatial plans, so we are in a hurry to be adopted by the end of 2010, so that we can start with a construction programme, as this is the basis for an appropriate building permit. In this way, we imagine that once finally we will ensure comprehensive security in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for his concern in this area and that he is willing to participate, it is said at the rehabilitation of this area of Savinja. I'd like to ask you this - I haven't heard anything about these industrial zones right now. We have a large industrial zone in Upper Savina Valley, in Ljubno, and in Nazari. And there are threats to jobs if there is another flood - such as it was in 1990. So I'd like more if you could further explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u167	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you. Like I said. We have a programme to remedy the consequences of the flood in 2007. I told you exactly how the numbers are moving. However, as for matters such as these industrial zones and so on - we know that there are more of these cases in the various municipalities situated next to Savinja - this problem needs to be fully addressed. This problem will be addressed in the context of the adoption of these State Spatial Plans and in accordance with the 2010-2015 Programme, which will then provide wider flood security. This is the solution that is most optimal if we are to solve this problem. Because in fact, we've always saved the last 18 years - when it happened. That is to say, in fact, we have only cured and not yet, we are not entirely, because we know that everything is not imagined, given the floods that have taken place in the past. That is why we want to solve this problem in such a way that we will also use European funds. These funds are provided in the financial perspective 2007-2013. I think that €80 million has been provided, and I think Savinja is the one that has to be given the first priority, because we know that flood safety is the weakest in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Bezjak will raise the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the Act on full-time subsidisation in the Official Journal of 5/2009, the Government has introduced subsidies for work, co-financing of wages for employers who employ workers in accordance with the law governing working relationships and as full-time work they receive 36 hours and not less than 32 hours per week. On the basis of the implementation of the law, I am interested in: How many companies have decided on this measure? Number of employees in these companies? What effect has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia achieved on the basis of the law? How do you control the eligibility of subsidies to companies? It is said in public that a number of companies receiving aid from this title are unjustifiable. Even more; work is premature, overtime is on Saturdays and Sundays, and senior directors tell employees to work overtime on supplies that they can benefit from in the autumn or during 2009. Some even pay for this excessive work in the form of travel costs, such as field work. How will you act against such companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u171	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Ambassador Bezjak. First of all, I would like to stress what is worth stressing in this law. In view of the fact that the consequences of the economic crisis are being mitigated by providing assistance to those employers who decide on shorter working hours. We have found that such assistance is necessary at this time in order to maintain jobs also through this financial assistance. It is about providing workers with jobs and maintaining social security to an unspoiled extent. We are also reducing the costs for employers as regards the costs of wages in the crisis. In addition, we keep a social treasury, in particular a pension and a health care facility where workers can continue to pay. I would say the following about the impact of this law. We assess - this cannot be precisely said - that we have maintained between 6 and 7 thousand jobs by this law so far, and this is confirmed by the representatives of the companies that have decided to do so. At the same time, I can provide specific accurate data, namely that the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia has so far received 460 applications for partial full-time subsidisation, in which it has declared 43,200 workers eligible for these subsidies in these applications. We have entered into or concluded 284 contracts with employers applying for this scheme, and 38,241 employees are covered by these contracts, including a financial amount for subsidies of approximately 17 million and a half. However, I would like to point out that the law has only been implemented for two months now, something more, and that the interest in subsidies is still very current and we expect this interest to continue in view of the course of the crisis. However, companies have the possibility to apply until the last September of this year. So there is still a lot of uncertainty, and we also expect a considerable response further. As regards the control you are asking for, it is a multilateral one, first of all, the institution checks whether the applications are complete or submits appropriate documents to ensure that the reduction of working time is agreed upon. It also requires lists of workers to whom this subsidy is intended to apply and so on. After the contract has been signed, when this contract is implemented, the control shall be carried out in several ways. Firstly, the institution will randomly carry out controls in individual companies which are recipients of this aid, so that it will see whether the actual companies are working to this extent, as announced, and with these workers, and the work inspection will respond to all applications - and some of them have already been - that will come from companies in the sense that the contract concluded is not being fulfilled. In addition, if they wish to receive a subsidy, these companies must submit lists of employees who are working part-time, and then these data are also compared to the data available to the Tax Administration on the one hand and to the Health Insurance Office on the other. This also controls the payment of wages or the payment of contributions. That way we have multiple levels of control. And when we detect irregularities, we will also act in the sense that they will be terminated on our side of the treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u174	Yeah, Bezjak, yeah. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u175	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u176	Indeed, I am, in principle, satisfied with the Minister's response. However, since I am quite alone in the field, it is also the response of certain employers that in fact those companies that need this help do not really hope to go into this system, because it is precisely for this reason that companies will have to forgive people, then they cannot. This system, however, goes to businesses that do not need these funds either, but because this law is written very widely, anyone can apply and anyone can access these funds. But it is true, as you said, that if controls are introduced, especially inspection controls, then it is good and satisfactory. But we know from the inspection department that the inspector comes into the company, but if there is no board "d.o.o. He said, "We have nothing to look for here because there is no d.o.o. "and they work in black and so on. If this surveillance is going to be better, if these inspection services take a step further, then I believe that success will be so much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u178	Hello, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In 1996, the Basic School Act passed the nine-year primary school programme, which was to be introduced gradually in Slovenian schools from 1998 to 2003. The spatial, staffing and other conditions for the implementation of the nine-year primary school programme shall be provided by the State and the municipalities in accordance with that law. As part of the preparations for the introduction of the nine-year primary school programme in 1999, the Ministry of Education and Sport issued a public call for the notification of investments of particular importance in primary and school education for the period 2000-2004 in order to prepare a priority line of investments to be financed by the Ministry together with municipalities during the planned period in order to ensure a spatial condition for the implementation of the nine-year primary school programme. In 2008, a nine-year primary school programme was fully introduced in all Slovenian schools. As a result, questions about the provision of spatial conditions are becoming even more important for all those municipalities that have not yet been able, together with the Ministry of Education, to provide funds for the implementation of the planned investments. In 2008, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act, which legalised funding from the National Budget for Parental Payment for Kindergarten Programmes for Young Children, was also adopted when more children are involved in kindergarten. The result of this measure is increased enrolment of children into kindergarten, which brings additional needs for facilities for the implementation of the pre-school education programme. These needs in the preschool area will also have to be taken into account by the municipalities in the implementation of the planned projects in order to provide space for the nine-year primary school programme. Given that the relevant spatial conditions are only one of the key elements of the successful implementation of the nine-year primary school programme, I ask the Minister of Education and Sport the following question: What is the financial and forward-looking plan of the Ministry of Education and Sport to cover planned investments in primary schools in order to provide the necessary space for the implementation of the nine-year primary school programme? Secondly: Will co-financing of investments to provide space for the implementation of the nine-year primary school programme be a priority programme of the Ministry of Education and Sport?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u179	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you for asking. According to data available at the Ministry, in 2007 and 2008, the nine-year primary school programme was implemented in all primary schools in one change. This means that according to the number of departments this year, 8,459 in 787 central schools with branches, spatial capacity is sufficient. There is, of course, an additional question of gyms, a lot of schools have no suitable gym or no gym at all. It is also a question of other accompanying infrastructure that would be desirable, and it is simply so far that we have not been able to co-finance. So, this priority task to eliminate double-shift or even triple-shift learning has so far been realized. It is now, as I say, to upgrade the standard of primary schools, which is one of the Ministry's priorities. The co-financing of investments in primary education is estimated at around €14 million annually, allowing the co-financing of 67 projects this year. The problem, however, is the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which was adopted last year, in Article 24a, which reduces the possibility of the State providing as much support as possible. We are therefore thinking about proposing to the National Assembly a change to this Article, so that we can strengthen and support the realization of the needs of primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u181	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u182	The municipalities with about 3,000 inhabitants have an adequate consumption of less than EUR 2 million, of which about one third of the funds for all investments in the municipality. In the case of new school building and kindergarten according to the standards of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the value of the investment is at least 10-15 times higher than all the annual available funds for investments in the municipality. The municipality cannot even guarantee its share of co-financing of investments through a long-term commitment. I hope that there are not many such cases where municipalities have already spent a lot of their own resources to produce project documentation after long-term coordination with the Ministry of Education and Sport, while teachers are teaching in inappropriate places outside the school when parents are dissatisfied. The municipality only wants the Ministry of Education and Sport to provide its share under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities for a Project which has been active since 2004. Please, if the Minister can answer: In such a case, how can funds be provided for the start of construction?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u183	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. One problem is structural nature, namely that in Slovenia there is a number of small municipalities that really have a very difficult share or a suitable share or desired share in such infrastructure. The solution was seen by the congregations in amending the Law on the Financing of Communities last year, to which you refer. But I'll tell you this, as I told you earlier, it's a big problem for the Ministry. Indeed, we must then decide to co-finance or finance or to co-finance in a large part only a few kindergartens and primary schools, which helps to develop such places, but at the same time it is strategic for the whole of Slovenia that this is also an obstacle. As I said before, in the first part of the answer, we are thinking of proposing to the National Assembly a change in this law. At that time or by that time, we will have to carry out this thought, which you are rightly referring to, says how to help those municipalities that are in fact unable to co-finance in, say, an appropriate share, as was the custom of the infrastructure. I am pleased that this issue is indeed a problem that must be addressed by the National Assembly. We will make appropriate proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič will ask the Minister without a resource responsible for local self-government and regional development, which is now a legitimately absent, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. With regard to the topic of the problem in the question in question in question, I will still ask it and expect to receive an answer in writing, not only at the next meeting, because it is too up-to-date. In 2007 and 2008, the Slovenian municipalities had the opportunity to apply for a public tender for the prioritisation of regional development programmes under an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013. That's why I'm asking the Minister four questions: When can we expect the following calls? We know that more than half of the funds of the programming period are available. The municipalities also reported projects during the phases. Thus, they are now carrying out the initial phase and will report the following phases to the next calls. If there is no call for tenders in due course, the stage of operations will have to be interrupted, which will be linked to certain costs. This also increases the risk for some of the investments, the operations, because it will not be possible to implement the planning indicators in a timely manner - and even the return of European funds! Example: Construction of sewerage - within two years a cleaning plant must also be built. And, of course, it's a project. Second question. I'm asking the Minister: What are the results of the evaluation of the development priority of the regions for which the municipalities have been informed that it is being implemented? What will be the content of the following invitations to tender? Can we expect any restrictions or changes, in view of the calls made so far? Of course, that would be disastrous. The municipalities still have a lot of transport needs, especially in the environmental field. Third question. I'm asking the Minister: Will the practice below be the same as that of the former Minister, who informed the municipalities and other potential beneficiaries of the planned calls at the joint meetings long before the call for proposals? This is the only way that municipalities can prepare investment documents and align their budgets with them. And the final question. I'm asking the Minister: When can municipalities be expected to co-finance projects in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on Community Financing? In recent years, this call was already in effect at the beginning of March. How do you expect, Madam Minister and, of course, the Government, that municipalities will be able to realise the available resources by the end of the year if they have not yet called? In fact, situations and accounts must be submitted by 31 October. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I also wonder: Can the individual municipalities in this title plan to increase the available resources by one third for this year in accordance with the previous provisions of this Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Čadež will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The administrative unit Škofja Loka, which includes the municipalities of Žiri, Železniki, Škofja Loka and Gorenje Vas-Poljane, comprises just over 112 square kilometres with 183 settlements, where more than 41 thousand people live, had a recognised 1.5 doctor by the 11th of November. At that time, a new regulation on emergency medical care was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, laid down only one medical emergency and on-call services at the Škofja Lok health centre. This situation is completely unacceptable, as in the case of intervention, for example in the Jura, it means that the remaining bishoply area is two to three hours without duty. The additional problem in winter is also ski resorts, Cerkno, Old Top and Soriška Mountain, which often require the inclusion of the duty station or emergency team from Škofja Lok's health home. Therefore, an immediate increase in on-call teams would be necessary. I ask you, Your Honor, in the light of these facts: When could emergency medical care return to its original condition? And: Who would be responsible for the possible consequences if urgent intervention was needed at the same time in Railways and Gires, which are more than 65 kilometres apart? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u189	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u190	Dear Member. Your findings are correct. I can't argue with that. All I have to tell you is that the new regulation governing the conditions, organisation and working methods of the emergency medical service was adopted in the past year. In some ways, this rule wanted to be applied, so I count that my predecessors were thinking about equalizing the conditions of accessibility to emergency medical care throughout Slovenia equally. There are still many problems in the Slovenian field at this time, such as yours. For emergency medical care, €2.6 million has been allocated on the basis of this Regulation for more money than it had been this year before. With all the problems, including in this year's 2009 year, we keep this amount of resources in agreement. We talked to some congregations specifically about a problem like this, and they wanted greater and better standards and better coverage. I must say, several municipalities in Slovenia, which, with their funds from the municipal budgets, have stepped in to help in this situation. The Ministry shall prepare controls and assessments of this Regulation. On the basis of this assessment, the Ministry will try to resolve the most critical cases this year. However, we are aware of the importance, of course, given that this is linked to the level of resources. I would suggest to the Member that we sit in the Ministry for the first time in a direct dialogue, we are working on an assessment of this regulation, and we are working together to find a possible improvement in the situation, as we have done in the last two months with some Slovenian municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u192	I certainly want to know if there's really more money going on, why do you want to cut it from 1.5 to 1. We certainly want a ministerial meeting as soon as possible to resolve the specific problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u194	This difference is due to this reason, as my predecessors explained to me, because there were many areas in the Slovenian space that were significantly less provided with emergency medical care than in the case of Škofja Loka.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will also ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, ministers! Dear Mr. Minister of Health! In recent times, it has been possible to detect many disagreements in the types of physiotherapists, especially among the Association of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, which combines the vast majority of physiotherapists according to all the data, and the Chamber of Physiotherapists, led by Mrs. Friederika Kresal. All of these conflicts, which are a disaster for the profession, obviously arise mainly - obviously now we can call it so - from the unlawfully or even unlawfully granted public authority of the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, which apparently came to these public powers by providing false and misleading data. At the time this call was launched, it is said that it contains information that has more than 1000 physical therapists, and we know from all accounts that there are between 970 and 980 in Slovenia. Given that the law makes it very clear that the necessary condition for the granting of public powers is at least 60% membership, such evidence was clearly misleading at the time. To this end, it also shows data in which over 600 active physiotherapists in Slovenia have already submitted a written statement proving that they are not members of the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, so it is now more than obvious that the Chamber does not have more than 20% of the maximum 25% membership. On this basis, it can be concluded that at the time the decision of the Ministry, or then you gave this power or public authority in this mandate, on the basis of the ruling of the Administrative Court, was unduly justified. The fact that this matter is disputed also shows that, on the basis of this public authority of Vitasan, its owner is also Mrs Friederika Kresal, is conducting training of physiotherapists for compulsory obtaining maintenance points and for obtaining a licence, and that all non-members of the Chamber charge this education for more than 20% more expensive than it is. This is definitely unconstitutional. [[End of discussion warning sign]] And also illegal. That's why I'm asking you: What led you to give these powers? Why did you not allow access to the tender documentation and this was done only after the intervention? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u198	I thank you for this question. One of the first interviews I had when I came to the Ministry was with physiotherapists. Suddenly, there were people in my office, and I found out that they all came with lawyers. The physiotherapists’ chamber and the Association of Physicotherapists are only looked at through farsightedness, and it is on the rifle. This is an extremely serious problem, but I would like to explain it because I deal with it very much. By decision of the Ministry of Health of 1.9.2005, a public mandate was granted for a period of three years. In the procedure for granting public authority, it was established that the Chamber met all the criteria laid down in Article 87e of the Health Action Act. [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the law’]] and the Chamber proved that 77.14% of health workers in the field of physiotherapy were enrolled. That's what I got when I came to the Ministry. The Chamber was therefore granted a public mandate by a decision of the Ministry of Justice of 1.9.2005. By decision of 1.9.2005, the Ministry rejected the offer of the Association of Physicotherapists of Slovenia, a professional association, because it found irregularities in the offer of the company in order to demonstrate compliance with the terms of the tender for the award of the public authorisation. The company did not fulfil the tendering requirement as it did not have any qualified staff to exercise its public powers. The company did not agree with the decision of the Ministry of Public Power to the Chamber, since the Chamber is not supposed to fulfil one of the conditions for the award of public authority, namely at least 60% of the membership of all healthcare professionals carrying out physical therapy tasks. He challenged the decision granting public authority at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry then decided, on an official basis, that the procedure for granting a public mandate for the award of physical therapy tasks concluded with the definitive decision referred to above should be renewed on the basis of the reasons set out in points 1 and 5 of Article 260 of the ZUP from the evaluation phase of the tender. Against this decision of the Ministry of the Renewal of the Procedure, the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia opened an administrative dispute before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and succeeded in it. The administrative court in Ljubljana is, by judgment of 8 July 2006, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union. 11. 2007 Decision on the renewal of the procedure and imposed on the Ministry for the first time: to issue a new act on the renewal of the procedure within 30 days, however, if the conditions are met for it, and to pay the costs of the proceedings to the Chamber, which has also been realized. Immediately after this decision, we had many meetings, but no dialogue - not on professional, not on others, nor on third issues between society and the Chamber - cannot be introduced. The Ministry had to take into account, on the basis of a legal decision on the renewal of the procedure, only statements concerning the membership of physiotherapists in the society with which it was available up to 29. 9. 2005. Such statements, however, are 388, which did not achieve the signed 60% of membership. Therefore, the Ministry did not issue a decision to reopen the procedure until the deadline. You have provided a specific example of payment of membership fees. When I pointed out this to the president of the physiotherapist chamber, she immediately sent me to my desk in a sealed envelope of six documents, where the Association of Physicotherapists acted exactly the same. When it comes to members [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the company is one membership when it comes to non-members, is a higher membership. [[...]] Try it. There's no reconciliation here. I've asked both presidents, societies and chambers to equalize the cost. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. I agree with you that the Ministry has done what the Administrative Court has ordered it to do here, by allowing the Administrative Court to renew the procedure under Article 5 if a favourable decision has been given to the party, that was the Chamber, on the basis of its imprecise arguments. Here it is more than obvious that her allegations were unrealistic, as there certainly are no 1,000 members in the Chamber. As evidence of this, I think there are now some 500 or 500 signed statements by active members of physiotherapists who explicitly state that they are not members of the Chamber. It means that this is a sufficient reason to guarantee that this procedure is also justified. I also agree that the Society of Physicotherapists can possibly have different costs, I was talking about education, not membership. However, it should be emphasized here that the education provided by Vitasan is a company owned by Mrs Kresal, the President of the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, carries out the education necessary to enable the physiotherapist to obtain additional points for maintaining the licence or obtaining the licence. This means that her monopoly here is economically or commercially exploitable, which is unacceptable. So now I'm asking you: Will you go into the process of determining the number of members of both groups? In the event that it is found that the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia does not have the required number of members: Will you proceed to the procedure for the withdrawal of these powers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u201	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u202	I also talked about education, not membership, and they also have different rates of education in terms of membership. That's the same problem everywhere. Here the matter is very difficult, we are looking for solutions to this dispute, it would be more normal if society and the chamber could agree, but I have no hope anymore. The Ministry will, within the framework of existing legislation, but we must also take into account the ruling of the Administrative Court, prepare a solution to how to move forward in order to settle the matter and to have peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I would like to make a procedural proposal, particularly for a reason which is likely to help Mr. Minister to continue all these conflicts between the Chamber and the Society. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] I would also like to propose, by means of a debate, that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should hold a general debate on this issue and that all these arguments should be re-examined and, on the basis of this, what would be the best solution to address this situation, which is certainly to the detriment of all those who need the services of physiotherapists, because these conflicts do not actually lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Verlič will ask the Minister of Transport, who today is rightly absent, a matter of question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you, given that the Minister of Transport is absent, to answer my question orally at the next meeting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Minister of Transport, in view of the current topic, which was not yet so topical at the time of the announcement of my question, but now looks more from day to day, the issue of the freezing of cohesion funds for the construction of motorways in Slovenia because of the discriminatory introduction of vineyards. Lately, the newspaper Finance, at the end of the year, wrote that I quote: "We have come to the bottom of another false statement, which has recently appeared in public, that the European Commission has stopped the process of granting €88 million for the construction of the road section of the Posnica-Drazenci due to alleged discriminating guilt. That's not true. The rabbit's stuck in the other bush." I therefore ask the Minister of Transport: Where is this rabbit? I would really like the European Commission to explain to me the content of the letters, I am speaking to the European Commission, Commissioner - for me, the European Commission - has addressed the Minister to the Government. I would also ask him to explain: How and in what way does the European Commission decide on the discriminatory nature of a wine system in a Member State? Where does he have a legal basis for this? Is it even possible to initiate such a procedure? For if it continues this way, then a European Commissioner may no longer be satisfied with a minister of the government and will freeze the funds and declare that this minister cannot take up this position because a case is discriminatory, and until that Member State resolves it, something will be frozen for so long. I believe that this is a really legal issue and I would therefore ask that the Minister of Transport justify this purely legally, whether it is really just pressures and omissions or whether there are specific legal grounds for such action by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Križman will raise the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues - I see our colleagues have left us - Madam Minister and Minister! My question, Mr. Secretary, is this. More than half a century after World War II Italy has not yet returned the archives, works of art and book materials taken from this territory before and during World War II. It is a rich archive material fund, covering the period from 1255 to 1848. These archives are a historical memory of our places, countries and individuals. Just as each individual wonders who he is, where he comes from and looks for his ancestors, so all this information is important to the nation and the country. These funds include the statutes of Izola, Kopra and Piran from the 14th and 15th centuries, the documents of Kobilarna Lipica, the coat of arms of the 13 tribes of 1246, the book of the 16th century piranhas and the rest of the material, which is now located in 57 crates at various locations in Trieste. Thus, for example, the mother books for Lipica from 1923 to 1943 are partly located at the home office in Trieste and at the library Istituto Sperimentale per la Zootecnica in Rome and the state archives in Gorica. These archiving funds were taken from Kopra for protection against bombing, all of which are listed 29. 6. 1944, for which we have an accurate list and you also have it at the Ministry or the pre-departure record signed at the time for the transfer of this material. Also in 1940, Italy evacuated from Kopra and Piran, due to wartime events, the same under the pretext of bombing allies and destroying all of this, 25 original artists, even for these works, there is a precise description. The works of artists such as Carpaccio, Veneziano, Vivarini and Tintoretto are among the most important works of our places. It is also the military administration of Yugoslavia, which ruled until 1953 with us on and at the head of origin, the legal basis for Slovenia's requirements towards Italy is primarily the 1947 peace treaty with Italy, a special letter which was exchanged by the then Foreign Minister of Italy and Yugoslavia, as well as by the international convention, in particular the 1983 Vienna Convention on the Success of Countries, which stipulates that a country which renounces the territory of another country must [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u209	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you so much for asking. You've asked such a detailed question that you've already summed up half of my answer. And I'd start where you ended up. You have mentioned that the basis is in the Peace Treaty, the Peace Agreement and that it is also the basis in the Omni agreements or in the letters Milič-Rumek under the Omni Agreements. Then, during the time of Yugoslavia, discussions began on the return of these works of art and the archives to the present Yugoslavia, which continued also during Slovenia. Since 1992, we have always opened this issue in all bilateral talks with the Italian side, as well as at the working level. In 2005, the Museum of Revoltella in Trieste exhibited part of these works, which the Slovenian side believes belong to Slovenia or to owners in Slovenia, mainly the Slovenian Church, the Catholic Church, archives and paintings go to the provincial museums of Koper, Izola and Piran. What do we do or what do I do as a minister since I became a minister? We will renew the Inter-Resort Working Group, which includes representatives of the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Culture and the Catholic Church, as the largest owners of these removed works. The material on the establishment or continuation of the work of this interdepartmental group is in the government procedure and I think this week the government will consider this material; this is the first time. Secondly, a new agreement on cultural cooperation between Slovenia and Italy is being drawn up for 2009-2011, not in fact an agreement, but a programme of cooperation with Italy. And Slovenia will also propose an article in this programme dealing with the issue of the return of art. Thirdly, the return of art remains an important topic in bilateral discussions. I was alone in Rome on 25 February, and I opened this question at a meeting with the Foreign Minister and also suggested that we continue with the work of the Mixed Commission on this issue and that we are trying to find a solution. And we agreed that the talks would continue, either at the level of a larger group or at the level of the Commissioners of the two ministers, but still to restore these talks, which have not been going on for many years now. Addressing this issue is one of the open issues between countries and we are also dealing with it as such. With the help of the profession, we are working to continue all diplomatic efforts to bring about a solution. I think there are now conditions in Slovenia for these works of art to return to restored churches. In archives and museums, there are conditions that this could also come back to us and be accessible to both Slovenians and Italians on both sides of the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Crossman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, with your answer, I am very pleased that he is exhausted and also truly suggests some activity. These activities should be initiated as soon as possible, as the years pass, 1945, 1942 is very, very far away. I am pleased that you have understood this very important question for formerly occupied places in Primorska or Slovenia, which have actually lost their identity card, as I said. My additional question is as follows. Given the fact that we are setting up a museum in Lipica, a museum in which all the breeding books that I have also discussed in my question will be found, I would ask you, given that we are constantly proving that this horse is a Slovenian horse, and today we can proudly say that it is a cultural monument. I want to know: Will you make efforts to obtain these books from the Institute; now you should translate it into Slovenian; from this institute in Rome where they are located. I saw them, I was there. This is possible at this point, really possible first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u214	I'm sorry. I'd like to have a word with you all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u215	Yes, thank you very much for that suggestion. I have to admit, I don't know the details of which cases can be recovered sooner or later. I think that first of all we need to take a holistic approach to the matter by reaching some agreement with the Italian side on the principles of return or other solutions on art items and then on the archive. And if that's what you say it would be the easiest and fastest to get, then we can start with that. And I take this as an initiative, and I will also mention this to my people who will be involved in discussions with the Italian side.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I might limit myself to a very topical issue - the issue of traineeships and the problems faced primarily by young people who somehow complete the educational process, enter the labour market and start as trainees. The problem that I see in this area is that, in fact, the law that we have at the beginning of our internship does not necessarily require, but in some ways makes it possible. So a lot of people take these options and take advantage of a young graduate when he comes to work to hire him as a trainee. A bigger problem arises when, say, young volunteers are largely volunteers in the public administration, says volunteers, and they are not paid for their work at all. Many times it is that when young graduates come to school to teach, such as as teachers, and the Ministry of Education has issued an invitation for 300 young trainees, only 50 of them are paid and 250 are doing voluntary work. That's the first problem. The second problem is that when paid for work, only 70% of the 100%, or wages, are paid. In this context, we need to consider what it is like to offer young people a hand when they are employed. What to do in this direction, given that they face great problems such as creating their own family, gaining their own apartment, they face low incomes right at the beginning. The problem of traineeships seems to me to be a major problem for young people and their first job. Therefore, I ask you, in the coalition agreement, we have committed ourselves to abolish traineeships in the public sector everywhere where this is not a sort of professionally sound part of the educational process. And given that the Labour Relations Act, which was last completed at the end of 2007, allows for this possibility, which I mentioned earlier: What plans does your ministry have regarding the changes in this area, which also stem from the coalition agreement? Further, when we talk a lot about youth employment or student work, we know that many of them have to work at the study so that they can study at all. We have talked many times about trying to involve them during their educational process somehow in the work process itself, in order to get acquainted with employers, in order to try to engage in some of the projects in a project, so they would be paid in part and would have had their first contact with the employer. Continue my question: Is there already some legal basis for project employment under the specific project contracts for the employment of students at the time of the study? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you for the question, Mr. Levanic. With regard to the first question, let me say that the Employment Relations Act 2007 defines the possibility of traineeship, which is, of course, the decision of employers and, on the other hand, of employees to do so in collective agreements or in specific acts. In short, it is not possible to intervene by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for the time being. These issues can be addressed in individual sectors, unless they are opened by the Labour Relations Act, which is not currently planned to be opened. It is a professional question whether someone who is a trainee, and this is an assessment then of individual areas, of individual employers, or of someone who is a trainee, can immediately perform their tasks, or need certain guidance, assistance, mentoring at the beginning, which, of course, also affects his performance, his work outcome and thus his salary. This is a question that will have to be raised if we are to open up the Labour Relations Act and when we reopen it, but this is not in the plan for now. As regards the second issue of student work, it is regulated by the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. This law is in the normative programme of our ministry's work and we will be supplementing it this year. And we will certainly meet here also the issue of different forms and types of work. Student work is one of them. So far, there is no solution because there has not yet been a detailed discussion or work in this direction. However, there will be a need for coordination here, and this is in the plan, the interests of the various social partners, including students. However, I must say that as far as the employment of young people and students or graduates is concerned, we are preparing, together with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, one of the active employment policy programmes which will be aimed at those who finish their studies and enter the first job with certain employers. We are actively engaged in these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your comprehensive response. As regards the integration of young people into the labour market and the active employment policy, I fully agree with you and I am pleased that you are prepared to see this area somehow settled in the future. As far as the traineeship is concerned, I might appeal to thinking in the direction you mentioned about expertise. I also believe that a young person, during the educational process, certainly gains quite a bit of expertise. It is true that he must also gain some initial experience in the workplace. But I have to say, there must be so many that he doesn't have to do volunteer work. Let's look at the example of a business in the economy where, for example, a young person, when entering the labour market, comes into the business, comes as a trainee, finishes the internship within one year, and becomes an expert beginner next year, so again in a very low position in the company. And just thinking in this direction that we are allowing young people to get to know their working environment as soon as possible, to actually reward them for their work, especially that they are being paid fairly, and to try to make this principle of traineeship a little easier so that it will not only look like we are exploiting young people who are coming to the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. The Minister is duly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I expect to receive an oral response at the next meeting. The economy of milk is one of the most important agricultural activities in Slovenia, so maintaining this activity is crucial to preserving our rural area. In the dairy cow sector, the trend is to reduce the number of breeders due to lower milk prices. Prices go down monthly. The dairy cannot process all milk and sell it on the market. This puts exceptional pressure on the reduction of the buying-in price of milk and thus a significant deterioration in the situation of dairy farmers. Large quantities of milk occur in the open market at very low prices, as milk is also more across Europe than the market can absorb. This presents major problems for both breeders and producer organisations. They are in such a situation that they are already considering putting an end to production as they cannot deal with a negative result. This means: reducing the production and genetic potential of the industry that has been set up for many years. Even in the field of food processing, production needs to be rationalised, and each sector, due to its long-term undernutrition, is having a difficult time alone. Such restructuring requires additional resources, which, unfortunately, cannot be provided from regular business. That is why additional assistance will be needed, and certainly also by countries. I would therefore like to ask the distinguished Minister: What measures is envisaged to stabilise the milk production and processing sector in Slovenia, with a strong reduction in the buying-in price of milk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u225	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, Madam Secretary. The restoration of the church facade in the parish of Črnomelj was followed by the removal of the historical landmark, a memorial of the work of the religious commission of the Slovenian National Liberation Council - SNOS, which was active in this parish in 1944 and 1945. The renovation was completed in mid-2007. The memorial plaque has not been returned to its place, although since June 2003 the parish has, on the basis of the proclamation of the municipal council, the status of cultural monument of local importance. Apparently, this historical monument was even destroyed when it was rebuilt from the building. In December last year, a letter was sent to the parish by the Novomec Regional Unit of the Institute for Cultural Heritage of Slovenia with a call for the return of the memorial board to its original place, since the panel is an integral part of the cultural monument of local importance, with the characteristics of the architectural urban and historical monument. Instead of refunding the mark, the parish hired a lawyer who, with various indications, challenged the return to the original state. The controversy also took place in the media, from local media to wider space. The municipality handed the matter over to the Ministry of Culture Inspectorate, who is supposed to be negotiating with the New Town Bishop about the solution. I would like to ask Minister Majdo Shirca to explain: Does the Ministry of Culture have an opportunity and an "interence" to influence the resolution of problems in the local community? What powers does the Ministry of Culture inspectorate have in such and similar cases? Please also introduce us to the state of the deal with the New Mesto diocese. The memorial plaque was set up in 1954 with the consent of church dignitaries. With the mark on the activities of the interwar religious commission, no one has shaved for a decade. Why would that be an apple of conflict today? The question of dispatch is therefore a simultaneous initiative for the appointed Montenegrin priest to end the senseless controversy and to raise the dust. If he does not accept the calls of the New Town Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, he should only take into account the hurt feelings of still living fighters or Belokranjs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I am taking part in your initiative, that is to say, not only to the question you are referring to the Ministry of Culture, but also to your initiative to give the competent pastor some thought in this case and to follow the instructions of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in New Town. The Ministry also has powers in some way and in the light of the negotiations it also carries out in terms of mediation. First of all, mediation and complaint to take into account, however, the fact that, as long as we are restoring the whole story and since the monastery in Montenegro is declared a local monument or a local monument, it must then respect those provisions that apply in this proclamation. This means that this record is understood as an integral part of this monument. Now, frankly, I don't know if the record is destroyed or not. But even if it is destroyed, if the fact that it is an integral part of the monument is respected, then it must be put back, either as a replica or as a different form of sign. The Cultural, Heritage and Media Inspectorate is competent to act. The only problem is that the instructions of the Cultural Heritage Protection Office are implicitly laid down because they clearly appeared to him to be self-evident, not stipulating that this return should also be taken into account, but insisting on this integrity. And in this sense, in a way, the rules for the self-inspectorate should not be violated. However, we would not want an additional or any conflict to arise. We want to respect the provisions of the monument, because it does not matter whether it is local or national, the fact is that the monument has to be protected in an integral way, that after the restoration the plate is returned and that this problem does not grow into a wider dimension, but that the house is preserved as it was when it was established on it and at a time when it was declared a monument.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u229	I would like to begin by sincerely thanking you for the patience of the Minister, who has waited so long for the final question. I certainly think we should have warned you about that. It's obviously a matter of local importance. There are a lot of these local issues in Slovenia, and I think it is right to speak about them at the republican level and, as we can see, the Republic Cultural Inspectorate is competent to intervene in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question, as well as the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The last Minister is justifiably absent, i.e. only Minister Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, Minister! We probably all remember last year's storms that have been raging around our country. It found roofs, fell trees, destroyed numerous roads, crops, and forests. The assessment of damage in forests and farms is enormous. The biggest damage occurred in the municipality of Predmeja and in the area between Kamnik and Gornji Castle. In order to remedy the effects of the storm, the government allocated €7 million to municipalities from the budget reserve. The Ministry of Agriculture has decided to devote €915,000 to cutting down damaged trees and repairing forest roads. According to available data, by the end of last October around 47% of the forests were damaged in July and about 15% of the forests were damaged in August storms. After talking to affected farmers who perceive forest ownership as their bank, I get a lot of worrying questions. Several generations have been responsible for these forests, but natural disasters have severely crippled their assets and thus their security, ability and stability of management on these holdings and, of course, the existence of farms and the population of these areas. In addition, I have received a warning that, following their rehabilitation of forests, there is no professional, appropriate growth and current management practices with these forests. In short, they question this kind of rehabilitation that is now being carried out. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How much money is this government going to use to address the consequences of last year's storms? How many of these funds have been paid? How are payments made? How are the rehabilitations of forests and agricultural areas taking place? Are you checking or inviting farmers to do this work and asking about their experiences, their long experience? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you for asking. I must say that I will only respond to the part concerning the Ministry of the Environment, because I have no data on the answers for which the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible. With regard to the Ministry of the Environment, last year, under the previous government, in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters, we prepared a programme to remedy the consequences of direct damage, for all of the storms listed last year, in particular in July and August. Under this programme, a recovery programme of €42 million is envisaged. The government has already paid around €18 million under this programme last year. At that time, the municipalities received, according to my data, EUR 9.6 million, a little more than you yourself mentioned. This programme, of course, covers the restoration or rehabilitation of facilities owned by the public, then private-owned facilities, then the restoration of special facilities. Here, in particular, I am referring to cultural monuments and also to the restoration of destroyed agricultural land. I can say that this item is worth 5.5 million euros. As these funds will be distributed, I think the Minister of Agriculture will say better. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, this year we will provide EUR 4 million for those areas for which we are responsible. In fact, this programme, which weighs 42 million euros, will be in the coming years, this is true for 2009, 2010, 2011 to provide an additional 24 million euros and in this context also for the rehabilitation of these destroyed agricultural areas. More specifically, this can be answered by the Minister responsible for agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer, too. I'm happy. However, I expect the reply of the Minister of Agriculture at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u236	Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. In contact with representatives of the Slovenian National Community in Austria, the issue of notification of the succession of the Austrian State Treaty of 1955 arose several times. The Republic of Slovenia has not yet forwarded its signature to the Russian Federation, which is the depositary of this Treaty. The Republic of Slovenia committed itself to the protection of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries in Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in a special resolution of the National Assembly adopted in 1996. The notification of the Austrian State Treaty, according to the representatives of the Slovenians in the Austrian Republic, is crucial for their legal protection because the Republic of Austria does not recognise the rights of succession of the former SFRJ. In view of such interpretation, it is possible to play Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, which lays down the rights of the Slovenian national community in Austria and Styria, thereby violating international treaties and conventions relating to the protection of minorities and human rights. I have already asked about the notification of the Austrian State Treaty by the Republic of Slovenia on 21 February 2005 to the then President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. Unfortunately, none of these questions have been answered satisfactorily so far. At a time when the Alliance for the Future of Austria won a convincing victory at the recent Austrian elections in Koroška, the debate on the protection of the Slovenian national community, especially when it comes to resolving the issue of bilingual inscriptions, is necessary for the existence of this Slovenian minority. It takes into account the constitutional and other commitments of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the protection of the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar: Do you plan any activities related to the notification of the Austrian State Treaty? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Member, for the question. The notification of the Austrian State Treaty of 1955 is a complex international legal issue, which Slovenia has been continuously and closely monitoring since its inception and has studied with appropriate political and professional sensitivity. It's a closed international contract. However, countries may either accede to or enforce a legacy to closed international treaties only with the consent of the parties to this Treaty. The position of Slovenia is that the Austrian State Treaty is a valid international treaty and that Slovenia, as one of the equal countries of the successors of Yugoslavia, is considered to be the successor to the Austrian State Treaty after the former SFRY. The reasons why the former SFRJ acceded to the Austrian State Treaty are, in the main part, now concerned the Republic of Slovenia. This is the common state border, this is Article 5, then the protection of the Slovenian minority in Koroška and Styria, this is Article 7, and the compensation issues relating to the seized Austrian property, Article 27(2). These reasons still exist and justify that Slovenia is de facto considered to be the successor of the rights and duties of the former SFRJ in the Austrian State Treaty on these issues and by the nature of the matter. Slovenia is the only successor of the SFRJ, which has a border with Austria and has an undisputed vital interest in taking over the role of protector of the interests of the Slovenian minority in Austria after the former Yugoslavia, which was a member of the Austrian State Treaty. Therefore, Slovenia is also acting in fact towards the Republic of Austria, in particular on the minority issue, as a de facto successor. Slovenia is therefore considered to be the successor to the Treaty and to the State of the Protection of the Slovenian Minority in Austria, as well as to the Republic of Austria. In our dialogue with Austria at various levels, we continue to express clear expectations and requirements for the implementation of Austria's international legal and internal legal obligations towards the Slovenian minority, as set out in Article 7 of the Treaty. It is clear from this regular dialogue that Austria recognises Slovenia as an interlocutor on issues of rights of the Slovenian minority as arising from the Austrian State Treaty. Therefore, in summary, the most important thing is that Austria clearly recognises that Austria is an Austrian State Treaty and Article 7 thereof, an indisputable international legal obligation of Austria, which it is obliged to respect and that Slovenia is the legitimate protector of the Slovenian minority and its rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Marjan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Transport, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-welcome Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Minister and Minister! In accordance with Article 240, Article 242 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask Minister Patrick Vlačič the following question. Dear Mr. Secretary! With the construction of highways in Slovenia, there are major damage to connecting and local roads, such as the damage to local roads connected to the Mooring Highway. I want to know: When is the repair of these injuries envisaged, or how long will the damage to the highway take place? I'm also interested in: When will the construction of the connecting road in the Lenart Congregation begin? At the time of establishing the route of the Mooring Highway, was it adopted in the national location plan that this northern connecting road would be built simultaneously as a coastal highway? Also: When will the window change take place in Lenart municipality, which suffered damage at the construction of the Pomurska highway? The signing of a contract between a civil initiative in the municipality of Lenart and Darsom was regulated during the construction process alone when such damage took place. Here I ask with the evidence, letters and pictures that have been transmitted to you at the Department of Transport, but there is no answer. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you, Chairman. Respectable present. Analyses and general impressions in the public show that Slovenian primary and secondary school students have little knowledge of their civil rights and duties. Similarly, domestic consciousness or patriotism is underdeveloped. On today's integration of Europe in a globalised world, pan-European countries, from small to large, are striving to consolidate and develop a civic and domestic consciousness through teaching and education, both in different forms, mostly in the form of a separate subject, one or two years old, in secondary schools. In addition, in many countries, actions to strengthen national consciousness are already being promoted and funded. For example: seminars, cultural events, media campaigns and the like. I ask Mr Lukšić, Minister for Education and Sport: How is the primary school curriculum designed and implemented? Ter: Will this prepare any changes to raise patriotism, national pride and identity between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia through the entire educational process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u244	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u245	Presidents, Members. Thank you for asking. Such knowledge, which is addressed here, is never too much. The question is how it can be effectively distributed between students and citizens. My view is that here is the greatest role of policy, political parties, interest organisations, to open up space for young people and, with their example and way of doing politics, to raise the level of political culture. The school system has an important role here, but it's certainly not as big as anyone thinks. The curriculum was introduced by law last year and provides that by 1 June of this year, 2009 primary schools will have a curriculum. The curriculum shall be adopted by the School Council at the suggestion of the Director. Last autumn, the Ministry issued a recommendation which can also be read on the Ministry's website to help directors, councils and all interested in drawing up this curriculum. The Ministry prepared some consultations through the Institute of Education, also prepared by the Faculty of Philosophy, a society of educators. There is therefore an appropriate activity, so that schools will, I am sure, by this date, draw up a curriculum that will be in accordance with the law and in accordance with the autonomy of schools. The idea of a training plan is to take into account a particular situation in a particular school environment, that teachers, parents and local communities actually define some fundamental educational objectives that are in some way specific, and in other ways share fundamental values that are their own, both in Slovenia and in Europe. I think that this second part of the question, namely how to build national pride, how to build a good citizen, is certainly part of this educational plan, which must also contain ways to work with students and parents to actually give one message here that will raise the pride of students, parents and teachers, pride in this country. So we can all say that the country is where it's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Crossbow, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u247	I see that the Minister advocates this issue and follows these European trends, and I thank him for this answer, and I want this reception or this educational plan to take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Juri will ask the Minister of Economy a question, which is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We have already discussed this subject with the Minister of Economy, and I thank him in advance for the information he has provided before the deadline, however. The issue of copyright and intellectual property is still unsatisfactoryly resolved in Slovenia, as we would not have heard a number of initiatives about how the rules of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights could be resolved differently. One of the main issues is the issue of payment and costs for the use of intellectual property, exactly copyright and related rights. In this context, given the fact that I believe that Slovenian music is essential to Slovenian cultural heritage and that it is necessary, on the one hand, to allow users and users of Slovenian music a transparent and effective way of paying and exercising these copyrights, and on the other hand, a decent payment for their work to the authors of these songs, I am interested in: As far as SAZAS Association, i.e. the association of authors and authors of Slovenian music, received from the title of the Report when reviewing the correctness and consistency of the operation of SAZAS. How much money has she received in the last three years? In view of the fact that the Minister here would not have asked for an oral reply at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Križam will appoint the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your persistence. I'm last in line, so thank you very much for being here. Dear Minister, we witnessed an unusual event in Slovenia a long time ago when cultural goods were brought out of the country. It is the first book of Lutheran tamurantob or tabulatra for the wandering of Giacomo Gorzanis with the original title "Il primo libro di napolitane che si cantano et sonano and leuto" from 1570. The Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art bought the book for the musical history of the geographical space of today's Republic of Slovenia as an extremely important and interesting music press. In 1561, the author Giacomo Gorzanis dedicated his book to Mr. Janez Kmisl from the town of Fužina near Ljubljana. It is supposed to be one of the key musical documents that physically demonstrate high musical awareness during domestic nobility in the second half of the 16th century. Because of the rarities of this species, the acquisition of the book of Gorzanis was a major enrichment of the national cultural heritage. In a thorough review of the content, our experts found that it was a copy that had been considered lost since 1985 and recorded in the catalogue of the University Library in Genoa. Based on the pictures, Genoa also confirmed that it was their property. There was a legal investigation process conducted by the Italian Ministry of Culture and investigative police in Genoa. Our experts restored the book and restored it to the Italians at the Slovenian-Italian border crossing. Then, with the enthusiasm of true patriots, a press conference was convened, and from here on out, the story is already known to everyone in the media. Since reciprocity has not been respected and the Ministry of Culture has not been informed of the return, I ask you, Madam Minister: What will you do to ensure that the work of art of priceless value returns to Slovenia and what measures will you take against the perpetrators of this immoral and criminal act? And if you want, and you probably already know that, that's all that's left of this art. This is a replica that was prepared and distributed at a press conference. They gave us something similar in Italy, in Monteroton, where we now have originals. We'll make books like that at home. So much for an illustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much. It's complicated, yeah. I agree, however, that we are persistent, more than my colleague Jerovšek, who has missed the question he has raised. You are also persistent in the light of the previous question that you have put to my colleague, Mr Žbogar, in the light of Slovenia's efforts to obtain the archive material that was taken back from Slovenia to Italy, both art paintings and archives. However, if we set up an analogy, when Italy does not return to Slovenia what it should be, in this case, it may be who concluded that Slovenia was returning something to Italy before it was needed, which it did not need. However, it is still necessary to take a little more under the radar. This case of the Lutenj tab of this Giacomo Gorzanis, which was found in Slovenia and was lost in the genetic library, has been identified as the object that Interpol was searching for, because it was obviously unlawfully removed from the genetic library, is as awkward as the return process that the ZRC SAZU staged, let's say, was not completely corrected. Here's where we're supposed to agree. The work was done with good intentions. Slovenia has been shown as one who respects that unlawfully or any of the objects belonging to someone owned by someone who needs to return such cultural heritage to the site to return to where it was from, where it was taken from. We were a good example here. And we were less of a good example in the way we were returning. For the Ministry of Culture notes that the SAZU Scientific Research Centre, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Republic of Italy did not comply with the rules governing the return of such items. These regulations clearly state that it is only the Ministry of Culture that creates and has coordination and in this light ZRC SAZU did not comply with the provisions of the law and did not inform the Ministry of Culture about the book, because we did not know anything about it. And also the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Italy in this case did not respect the directives of the European Union, this is Directive 93/7, which clearly defines the obligation to communicate with the central coordinating authorities of the Member States, which the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Italy has not done in this case. Once again, faith and purpose were good. In fact, the final spoil was good, because the book is where it used to be. However, it has not been returned in the right way and the Ministry of Culture has not been informed, although the SAZU Scientific Research Centre itself refers to some provision of the law on the return of unlawfully removed cultural property and also the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which mentions that even through mutual communication, the State can agree on how they will return it. And that's what they did. The ZRC also designed a very respected lawyer here by respecting copyright, where they arranged this procedure through customs and so on. However, since he did not go with the knowledge of the Ministry of Culture, it is worth noting that the intention or inspection procedure introduced on 6 March this year has been completely corrected, that is to say, the procedure initiated by the Inspectorate has been corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I am pleased to hear your answer because you have given a firm and professional response to this answer, and I believe that you will be in the ministry as well. But to what you said before, I don't replicate or anything, but I just want to tell you that it was the Penal Code and its 221st article is talking about concealment: "Who knows that it was obtained by a crime" and so on, it's not true, because no one knows how this thing was acquired. And on the basis of this penal code, they really staged a story with this recognized lawyer. This was the only legal basis for handing it over to the Italians. The Italians wouldn't even do such stupid things to get me back, not even dead. I thank you for that answer. I expect people working in institutions as high as those mentioned above to be punished for such matters. For if this book, as you yourself said, were to be the subject of interstate communication on reciprocity and the return of what we have in the Italians, you would probably be much easier to cooperate in the foreign ministry with the restoration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u257	Otherwise, we're not even commenting. But still. Your continuation makes sense. I personally believe that the identification of this book was carried out professionally. That she was recognized as the one who failed in the genetic library, and that there is no doubt that there are no problems here, professionally not. I am talking about another problem that talks about the procedure and this process, in my opinion or our judgment, was not what the laws say, regardless of the fact that it has taken into account some possibility given by law and is talking about a consensual return, but look, for every painting, for every subject of cultural heritage that travels from the country, even to the countries of the European Union, we need to get a number and give our signature. It is. But there is something else that can trigger reflection in this action, namely that non-compliance with such rules on the return of cultural objects is possible, that some other country may think that we do not take into account those provisions of the directives which speak of the procedure. We could've run into some kind of obvious evidence here, although, as I say, I'm sure that book was returned to the right place. And at the same time, I think if the procedure were properly carried out, Slovenia could say, "Look, we know how to do this." We respect, while in all and so many years of efforts we have by returning the archive and returning the images that have been taken from Slovenia's Istria to Rome, Italy does not. Even now that these images have very good conditions to return to restored churches, to restored spaces, when the expert analyses are more than clear, in short, I think that colleague Žbogar will have much work to do, that he will also be in diplomatic ways, but these are the only possible ones to achieve that they will return to that work at least. I was very pleased today when she received the Stelet Prize, the highest recognition in the field of protection of cultural heritage, by Mrs Ana Hojer, who worked most professionally on this return. And in my opinion, the group that Minister Žbogar spoke about today must also enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-30-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 31 March 2009, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I'm adjourning the Fourth Session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night to all of you who have insisted.
