ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 8th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti, Janez Janša, Ljubo Germič, only Bevk from 15:00 until the end and Miran Gumzar. I say hello to everyone who's here! Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few words first. On 15 January this year, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Srebrenica, declaring July 11th to be the day of the victims of the genocide in Srebrenica, the greatest genocide on European soil after World War II, after the tragic experience of the Holocaust and the promise that the violent experience of World War II must never be repeated. And yet the tragedy in Srebrenica has shown the emptiness of this promise, the incompetence and incompetence of both the European Union and the entire international community to protect the civilian population. In July 1995, enemy soldiers invaded the enclave where thousands of Muslims were caught during the Yugoslav war. Men were separated from women and taken to death. Members of the United Nations Peace Corps have been silent witnesses who have merely observed helplessly this horrendous murder. Tomorrow's Memorial Day, July 11, is dedicated to the memory and gift of the victims of this tragic and pointless sea. At the same time, it is a reminder and a message, as well as a warning to us and to the generations to follow us, against the danger of fanaticism, nationalism, hatred and prejudice. The spread of democracy, the rule of law and, above all, the preservation of a lasting memory of this indescribable shameful tragedy is the best guarantee to prevent such or similar tragic and senseless acts from ever happening again. True and lasting peace cannot be without justice without mutual reconciliation. Only when the perpetrators are brought before the time of justice when they are finally responsible for their crimes will reconciliation be achieved between the nations and peoples, which is not only an integral part of European integration, but also an essential condition and a guarantee of overcoming contradictions, will this ethically varied and historicly troubled area be able to finally open a new chapter of its history. In memory of all the victims of the massacre, I ask Members and Members for a minute of silence. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RISK CAPITAL SOCIETY LAW, Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Darja Radic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u2	The Honorable President. Dear Members. In September 2007, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Risk Capital Companies Act, which is the legal basis for the development of the risk capital market in Slovenia. In order to develop and introduce the venture capital instrument into practice, Slovenia had to notify the European Commission's State aid scheme. This has also been done last year, and the Commission has already approved the State aid scheme, but the Ministry of Economy has committed itself to harmonising its legal bases, according to the European Union guidelines. And on the basis of the European Commission's current commitments, we have prepared amendments and additions to the Risk Capital Companies Act, which aligns the Risk Capital Companies Act with the guidelines of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. I will briefly present the report on the work of the Committee on the Economy, which considered the proposal of the law to be the working body of the mother, after the Government has proposed it and when it has been decided to adopt it as a matter of urgency. This meeting was attended by those who are also most interestingly concerned, i.e. representatives of the Government, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of employers. The material that has been prepared is the draft law itself, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the proposed amendments. The reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows: the first reason is to enable the implementation of the law which has been adopted. We've already heard about this today. The second reason is to fulfil the commitment our country has had to make to the European Commission in the past year. And the reason is to enable companies already established to operate, five public and four private venture capital companies. In this way it is also possible to implement certain recommendations of the Small Economy Act and to implement one of the measures called anti-crisis measures. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary clarified the past processes in terms of the adoption of this legislation. She explained the reasons why the rules are not yet operational and also explained the content in the details, as outlined in the proposal for a law. It is mainly as you know about the restrictions on investments in companies, by venture capital companies. The debate that took place took place mainly in terms of questions, why is this law not yet operational? Why are some sectors excluded? Some felt that restrictions were too restrictive. However, the main debate was whether or not the restrictions on exports of products and services were duly recorded. The explanations provided by the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service were that, in relation to the amendments proposed by the Committee, everything that had been resolved without any doubt was not sufficient for all members of the Committee on the Economy, so solutions were sought for a more precise definition. And since we have not found them on the committee ourselves, we have agreed to adopt the bill and, since this article is open, it is being amended at a meeting of the National Assembly. The three amendments were adopted, included in the report, together with the other articles of the draft law and recommended by the Committee to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Matjaž Han has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The economy has always been based on investment opportunities of different levels of risk. Safe investments generally do not bring about revolutionary progress in certain sectors. While more risky investments are those who can often bring extraordinary leaps and leaps to history. In spite of the extremely risky expedition of Christophe Columbus, the Spanish queen Isabela may be willing to take the risk of later entering history as the initiator of a journey that led to the discovery of America. Little for fun, little for real - this shows the essence of venture capital and support for investors who are willing to invest their resources, knowledge and risks in such projects. The reason for the proposed amendments to the Risk Capital Companies Act is in particular the confirmation of the State aid scheme, which the Ministry of Economy committed last year to harmonising the legal basis with the European Commission. Therefore, we welcome the changes and cannot in themselves be questionable. In addition, all venture capital companies’ activities are set up to generate profits and therefore tend to favour growth and development firms and thus fully follow the government’s strategy, which has also announced support to the health and, hopefully, the rest. The fundamental changes introduced by the law are, in particular, the identification of the area of State aid for venture capital and the restrictions on investment in certain sectors, which are, under the Article of shipbuilding, coal, steel, of course, in accordance with the Guidelines on State regional aid for the period 2007 to 2013. In addition, the proposal limits the amount of an annual contribution to individual companies to €1.5 million. Private investors in venture capital companies are included in the proposed amendments and legislative additions to the decision-making process through the Board of Independent Investors, and private investors must also have a minimum share to ensure profitability orientation. The amendment to the law submitted by the Government changes the concept of the operation of the public venture capital fund so that it is now placed over private venture capital companies. It will therefore allocate funds to these companies and not directly to small and medium-sized enterprises, as foreseen in the law so far. This will undoubtedly increase the effectiveness of the allocation of funds. In view of the fact that the original law was adopted in 2007 and is not yet fully functional, the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is one of the anti-crisis measures, which is undoubtedly to be supported and thus to enable venture capital companies to live in practice. The interest in risk capital management in Slovenia, given that four private venture capital companies have been set up, is undoubtedly, and the Social Democrats Group will, of course, fully support the law. After the adoption of the law, however, it will undoubtedly be necessary to work hard and to inform potential venture capital investors about investment opportunities, thereby increasing their investment potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. The DeSUS Group will support the Risk Capital Companies Act. It supported this ambition that shortcomings in the system and the structure of our economic operators are also addressed when the law was adopted in 2007, but unfortunately the law was not operational. It was then adopted without the ambition of being anti-crisis, but it wanted to perfect what we lacked in our economic system. In the meantime, unfortunately, because we went into crisis everywhere, he also proved to be an anti-crisis measure. The law was already aware that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is relatively low, that the level of technological level achieved is relatively modest, that the added value is also modest, that we are not a highly innovative and innovative society, at least with incentives, and that is why the need for such companies has been shown to stimulate it. The ambition of the law is to accelerate our development to support those most promising programmes and projects that do not find financial support through regular financial lines because of their risks. Some investments are also sought in this way. The law and the companies that were set up were not alive because the law was flawed because the state of these state aids had not yet been confirmed by the European Commission and because there was insufficient consistency with the guidelines imposed by the European Union on State aid to promote investment in small and medium-sized enterprises. The bill does not change the concept. This should be underlined by the fact that the first law, which was adopted, was, in fact, conceptually appropriate and was flawed and therefore this proposal merely complements it. It complements it in terms of the requirements, recommendations and guidelines of the European Commission and thus eliminates those flaws that have caused ambitions not to be implemented. The DeSUS Group supports the Government's proposal. It supports it because it is about supporting innovation, and it supports it because we believe that it is about supporting top-notch knowledge, so that new technologies are introduced more quickly, to accelerate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. After all, it is because such projects offer a higher return than the average return that we are accustomed to. We believe that this is also one of the possibilities for a faster restructuring of our economy and, of course, for implementing risky projects. Whether this law or the restrictions we are now introducing are too hampering economic development or not has already been cleared up by the Committee on the Economy, where we have found that it is not. And the export dilemma was more or less clear for some, while others wanted to have more precise explanations, which are likely to be adopted today as part of the adoption of the proposed amendments. The DeSUS Group will support this bill because it promises a higher technological level, higher profitability, better promotion of innovation and also the possibility of restructuring our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mrs. Radiceva! Yes, interesting is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on venture capital companies. I think the conversation on the working body was very constructive, and it's right that we talked. Now, basically, of course, man understands the dictatorship, which says, the explanation why this law or the proposal of the Law on Complements of the Law on Risk Capital Companies. It says that all venture capital companies’ activities are aimed at profit-making. This is an honest diction, this is the basis from which we are based in the analysis of this bill. This objective is pursued by tax relief under the Law on corporate income tax and the Law on Income. This is also very meaningful because, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we are constantly working to change tax policy, so that all those who risk investing in something, in times of crisis or whenever, have the right or deferral of taxes or lower taxes. That's understandable, too. When discussing amendments to Article 11, four new paragraphs would be added to the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to Act 1 in Article 1. 4th paragraph: "The venture capital company shall not invest in companies operating shipbuilding, coal and steel." It's a logic to understand how and why. However, in the Slovenian National Party, as well as personally, we have set up some scepticism, why something cannot if it risks - if it risks and benefits from it, let it. It's the first question that doesn't make sense to me, someone can explain it to me, but it doesn't even have to, but it's illogical -- someone who risks, risks, anywhere else, risks. Paragraph 5: "It shall not invest in companies engaged in export-related activities." There was much debate about this and I, colleagues and colleagues, suggest that, in this case, in view of the agreement we had, we jointly support the amendment to this paragraph, i.e. to Article 5(1), tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which specifies exactly what it is, what it is not. Which are these export-related companies so as not to confuse the notion that they must not invest in any exporting company. These are two completely different contents and please be careful. Regardless of who the amendment is, I think it would be right - I do not know what Mrs Radicov will say about this amendment - to accept it. "The venture capital company shall not invest in companies which are not considered to be small and medium-sized enterprises in accordance with the Regulation." I learned my own lessons, or my professional associates helped me. Article 2 of the Basic Law accurately describes what these companies are, and I accept this as a fact of the dictatorship of this law. With regard to the seventh paragraph, however, it first expressed its doubts about the Law-Legal Service and I think it is right that it is because it points out that the word association "business in difficulty" is incompatible with the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. I think that's a strong enough warning as to what this seventh paragraph means. Again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, if we are talking about venture capital companies, it is still a basic logic: someone who risks, risks, risks and wants to make a profit or lose. So, with the first article we discussed, I did not know that I expected more clarification that there would be more pure terms around Article 1, nothing happened except the amendment proposed by the SDS in the Slovenian National Party, although we would like to support the Risk Capital Companies Act because it helps people, because it risks and risks somewhere, but to end, I would like this Article to be more specific, to reflect on the adoption of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government. I'll be brief. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we support these additions to the Laws on Risk Capital Companies. Although the law was adopted in 2007, this is why 5 venture capital companies operate at this moment, whose activity is solely aimed at profit-making. Tax reliefs under the Law on corporate income tax and the Income Act contribute to the objective of these companies, i.e. investing risk capital only in promising companies or promising projects. These reliefs came into force when the European Commission approved the State aid scheme and the Ministry of Economy committed itself to aligning legal bases with EU guidelines in certain parts. These are solutions that exclude individual areas, business activities, from venture capital investments. The restrictions also apply to the size of companies and to firms in difficulty. It is the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to become a member of the EU and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Hello, secretary. What do we think about this law in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club? It is certainly important in these uncertain times that we ensure as much and as effective sources of funding as possible to ensure and effectively operate the economy. This is certainly the case for deposits or venture capital companies, although it should be stressed that this is a specific source of funding. The basic sources of funding are divided into private investors at the time of the establishment of the company, then we have business angels, debt financing through loans, private funds and, of course, the funds or venture capital companies that are under way today. These important sources of funding are included in one of the two categories of equity financing, since the investee becomes either the owner or the other option where debt financing is involved, or the investor becomes the creditor. All of the above mechanisms or sources of funding in Slovenia work more or less well. In times of financial and economic crisis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the issuance of guarantees, the preparation of a guarantee scheme, guarantees and other instruments, tried to accelerate activities in the area of debt financing of activities. Now, obviously, the Government wants to step up funding activities through investments by venture capital companies in promising companies, which is certainly good and commendable. We all want this to give concrete results in practice in the economy as soon as possible. Despite the fact that we have the Risk Capital Companies Act since 2007, this has not yet fully recovered due to some specific problems in practice. There's more than one cause. Most importantly, we have also heard, among other things, a change in the model of the creation of venture capital funds. There is certainly no debate today as to why something has not been done in the past, but what we can do today is essential to make the system more efficient in the future. Today there are five of these venture capital funds or registered companies in Slovenia, of which four are private and one is public, which was established by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. This is First d.o.o., which was recapitalised with EUR 35 million for the purposes of venture capital investments. Today, at this point, we are discussing technical amendments to the law that will implement the commitments made by the Slovenian Government to the European Commission. Since Slovenia, as a Member State, is committed to respect for the European acquis, it must take further account of and respect the rules on State aid by which the European Union regulates the European internal market. These State aid rules also regulate the field of venture capital financing in cases where this capital is of public origin. We were able to understand that the company will be the First d.o.o. Established by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, in the near future it can open the first call for the placement of these funds, which will then enable the financing of good, promising, best companies. Since we all want to start investing as soon as possible, we really hope to activate the government as soon as possible in this area, including through the preparation of concrete appropriate calls. Since this is an important harmonisation law, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will certainly support the proposed law, as this will enable us to launch venture capital investments and this, we hope, into excellent projects for excellent, best companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which you received yesterday, as well as the amendment of the parliamentary groups: Social Democrats, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS Parliamentary Club, which you just received on the bench. Anybody want to talk? I can see he doesn't want to. Excuse me? Mr. Barovich, please. I'll give everyone a report, please. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you. I think it is still necessary to talk about Articles 1 and 15 and the amendment to Article 1. Just 10 seconds ago, I received an amendment in the hands of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Now, quick look, I'm not Napoleon, but I can see it's about the same, roughly. We have stressed on the working body, and Mrs Radic will of course confirm this, and she herself has been willing to participate in the exact review of Article 1 itself, that a specific definition of paragraph 5 of "The Association of Risk Capital of its Assets must not invest in export-related activities" is necessary, and then the definition of the explanation of the amendment I read first is very clear. This amendment must be adopted in order to ensure that the venture capital company does not misinterpret that the venture capital company should not invest in the exporting undertakings in general. We may invest in companies engaged in export business, except in indents or in phrases connected in these amendments. Now I cannot substantively compare the amendment of the coalition that I received on the table right now with the SDS amendment, but I think that this amendment should be accepted. However, I continue to express, in Article 1, a scepticism regarding the last, seventh paragraph, that "the Company must not invest in companies which are in accordance with the law governing aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulties defined as firms in difficulty" also because of the doubts expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service. I'm still saying that some society that risks - I don't know - but that's exactly where it's needed, society risks, risks and invests in some firms that are in trouble, and thus risks getting a profit or losing it - and bans some help, and the very definition that is the skeptical legislative and legal service that this firm is in trouble, it seems to me that it would be right and good if we were already for this law to change this law, and it is right that we are, to improve things, also this seventh paragraph, and to define or redefine it very precisely. I am still sure, along with my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, that those who want to take risks who respect the Law on Risk Capital Companies will take risks, including in companies in difficulty. And the same in the export field that we have now defined with the amendment should, in our opinion, also be defined by companies in difficulty, with three, four indents, in which they can not, however, in which they can. We estimate that the tailor in this area has been slightly improved. This is not criticism, this is well-intentioned if we are already adopting a law that will help the venture capital company develop the economy and solve something. And it's right that we define this, and we talked about this on the committee. We said we'd re-examine Article 1. It is good that this amendment, either by the coalition or by the SDS, will now be supported by both of them if they are substantively the same to complement the concept of an export company which cannot really be helped. But it would be good, as I say, to redefine the seventh paragraph, even though I know that I may be a little late or not, maybe someone else will give their opinion. But I don't think this marriage can just go away. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it is important that it is necessary and a great deal of help in these times of crisis to rescue small and medium-sized enterprises whose definition is that they are companies that employ up to 250 people; this is already a big business today, if there is one that still exists and has these people employed. And that is of great importance to our country at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Radičeva, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In view of the debate, including on the Committee on the Economy, I think it is right to clarify once again these restrictions on individual activities included or excluded from the Risk Capital Companies Act. The fact is that shipbuilding, coal and steel are thus subject to other State aid rules. In accordance with the general principles of State aid, these activities are always excluded from other State aid measures. The same applies to the treatment of firms in difficulty. Companies in difficulty are specifically dealt with in the Law on Businesses in difficulty. That's where all the dictions are listed. And usually all the other incentives that are designed for development are eliminated by companies in difficulty. It is precisely because their resolution or development restructuring is regulated by a specific law and special assistance is provided for them. However, as regards the first or now paragraph 5 of Article 1 of the amendment to the Act, I find that the two amendments now tabled are almost identical and are in line with the debate we had on the Committee on the Economy. I will say so, the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups is more consistent with that classic dictatorship, which generally defines the treatment of export activities in other cases of State aid. That's why this amendment seems more appropriate to me. However, it is appropriate to define this prohibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the text of this law should be defined in this Article. I am also convinced that the proposal we have put forward in our parliamentary group is more precise than the one put forward by the coalition groups. I would like to remind you that our proposal explicitly prohibits what else can and in which cases, this is what is said in this forecast statement. We have written down that a company of venture capital should not invest in its assets and we have listed them well there, while a coalition proposal deals with it in some way and proposes a solution more descriptively, more conditionally. We believe that some discretion of an official may arise in such a dictatorship as proposed by the coalition, and that he will be able to decide otherwise. With our solution, we have written in our proposal what must not be explicitly done and what and for what activities for which transactions should not be allocated. We believe that our proposal in this work is much more precise and more rigorous than the proposal of coalition parliamentary groups, which has apparently also been aligned with the Government. I propose to the National Assembly, I propose to the Members of all the parliamentary groups that you simply accept, support this stronger solution, which is also fully in line with the European Union's guidelines as set out in the explanatory memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate on the amendments. Both amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - First draft law on the right to payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons in the home and art trade, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 15 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank, representative of the bill's proposal, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. In the previous term, many of the proposals proposed by the Chamber of Commerce have been adopted and summarised in legislative solutions, but are now the Chamber of Commerce, with which we have actually made very positive changes in the field of tax legislation as well as very large changes in administrative matters. Many obstacles have been removed and, in general, we have provided much better conditions, tax and administrative frameworks than before. The so-called VEM project, which was under way in the previous term, also received a great deal of support from a large international recognition. In fact, this project has also become a world champion. And we are convinced that in the field of regulating the situation of domestic craftsmen, especially those in our view in a particularly difficult situation, this is a domestic and art trade, must continue to regulate the situation and improve the situation. Domestic and artistic trade is usually a national feature, an activity that needs to be done more or less manually, that is to say that we cannot talk about large quantities here. However, we can talk about specific quantities and in particular about the specific knowledge that so-called handicrafts have. We estimate that domestic and artistic trade is in fact a large part an untapped opportunity, including for the development of other activities, such as the development of some tourist nuclei and so on. This is said to be an activity that is part of a national cultural heritage and is usually a specialty that separates us from other countries. It is true, however, that domestic and artistic trade is under great pressure from domestic and foreign industrial competition and, in fact, conditions must be provided to preserve it. The proposal that you have received is summarized according to the idea of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is trying to provide the right conditions for maintaining this activity. However, the proposal at this time, at which Slovenia is now located, is also appropriate that part of those who are now on the market or who are classified as unemployed, in fact, this category of people with great manual skills is the largest; this law can also provide conditions for relaxation and for the decision of any of those who have special skills that master the techniques and technology of work that master and can make products of domestic and art crafts, so that they may also decide to do so. And in this case, when we decide to partially or completely subsidise part of the contributions or social security contributions to employees, the State’s contribution is also significantly lower than, say, the aid or unemployment benefit. I think that a country with such and similar receptions should make it possible for as many people as possible to make it possible by partial payment, such as by subsidising contributions, to enable them to start their own activities and to save their own destiny and the fate of their families. I think that addressing the social situation of people in difficult situations is all too dependent on different institutions and institutions and is too limited to those people who have knowledge, including craftsmanship, to exploit this potential themselves, to use some of the state quotas, which are significantly lower than when we give them full compensation, and to set up a new activity. I think that such an initiative, which may still need to be completed in certain elements, should be taken by the State with both hands. And that is why I expect this law to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the draft opinion. The word has magic. Darja Radic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members! To the proposal for a law on the right to payment of social security contributions to self-employed workers in crafts and arts, the Government makes the following comments. A bill proposing the right to compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance from the national budget for domestic and art craft manufacturers would result in discriminatory treatment of other craftsmen and their unequal treatment. Such a solution would also result in unfair competition between craftsmen who would exceed the income price themselves and those who could exercise the right to finance social rights. It is also unclear from the proposal who decides on the beneficiaries of these contributions from the State budget, but it is already predetermined that the Ministry of Economy requires reimbursement of paid contributions if it turns out that the beneficiary exceeds the income price. This shows that there is still considerable confusion about the very process of implementing this law. At this point, it should also be noted that the Ministry of Economy cannot control it either, does not have data on who the beneficiaries are and does not actually keep these records. It is also clear from the presentation of regulation in other legal systems that there are no such legislation in any other country that would allow the right to obtain the right to finance social rights from the State budget. While this is regulated in some countries, these rights are regulated in a different way, in a way of bringing together interests, integration and emerging rights. It is also not considered that, at the place of full funding, some would consider such a possibility to be co-financed by everyone, whether by a certain percentage or, for example, proportionally, by the level of income. We believe that there is still considerable confusion in the law, that there are a number of fundamental concerns, including the achievement of the basic objective of this law, which should encourage the development of domestic and art craftsmen. In the Government’s view, much more needs to be done to encourage the development of domestic and art trade than simply to forgive those people involved in this activity by paying one contribution. These things need to be done in a more comprehensive way. According to all that has been said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law on the right to payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons in domestic and art trade, and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u26	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we understand the purpose of the bill's proposer, but we cannot support it in particular because of the financial consequences that the bill entails, because these are not precisely defined. The applicant assesses the 80,000 euro issue and cannot say for sure. The proposer also does not define where this money is to be taken, but merely flat-rately indicates that this money is to be found somewhere in the 2010 budget. This reflects the lack of seriousness of the proposer, who, according to our assessment, only wants to be liked by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Even if funds were to be found, such a solution would constitute an inequality between craftsmen and, of course, the discriminatory treatment of all other craftsmen. In particular, the idea that the state would pay contributions from the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Slovenia is particularly welcome when workers with 400 euro net pay their own contributions for a proven 8 hour work per day. It doesn't go with common sense. Finally, there is no inaccuracies as to how many of those who would receive this subsidy or this payment of their contributions, and what actually would be the financial consequences in the end. You offer a gift to those who work in the field of domestic and artificial craft at a time when the country simply does not have one, because we have a financial and economic crisis. At a time when prosperity has been supplanted in the previous mandate, the applicants have not been given that thought, which is why we believe that this law cannot be supported. If there is money in the budget, it will be necessary to invest in economic resolution and, of course, to put out the social problems that will arise in relation to the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, when this proposal is being processed, we have come to the conclusion that the reasons for amending the law are justified. That the purposes of marriage are good and meaningful. However, we have some reservations that if contributions are made to such persons, under this law, we are afraid that we can expect the same requirements from other craftsmen. The question is whether the budget will be able to do all this, and especially now, at this time. The main reasons cited by the applicant, as I said, are justified. The fact is that large-scale production and large-scale enterprises undermine domestic trade, small-scale production, which is a major damage. The fact is that people buy large-scale consumer products instead of craft products because they are simply cheaper. The craftsmen also abandon their activities in this area and seek other jobs. So it's also a reasonable and justified reason. But something that will be very in the eyes is the legacy of domestic and art crafts, which must be protected. Among the objectives, however, is that the purpose of the law is to provide a measure of concern for the preservation of cultural heritage. This is also the goal for which I think that the proposaler had in mind in the first place, because if we look at the number of those who could benefit from this benefit or this law, it is about 300 BC, which would amount to about 80,000 euros per month from the budget, it would still be acceptable somewhere, but we are afraid of what I said in the introduction, that in the event that such a law is passed, that the matter would not be extended by accident, and that the classic turnover would begin to register or use these benefits for this purpose. Producers of domestic and art trades or performers must be protected. So, to promote their existence. But it might be possible to find another source here, or otherwise. The Ministry of Culture could also consider this. In fact, it is one aid which is justified and in the Slovenian National Party we believe that we will abstain in this vote by somehow supporting the proposal of this law and asking the Government to find any other funding or assistance in maintaining domestic and art trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the draft law and in particular its main purpose, this is the preservation of domestic and artistic trade in Slovenia and the provision of conditions for its development. We see several reasons for this. There are several reasons that lead us to support this bill. Because of the historical reasons and the importance of the so-called small economy for the employment and provision of income and the provision of emergency services, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that we should pay more attention to maintaining and developing these activities, so we proposed a special ministry for a small economy years ago, which was, unfortunately, a single mandate. Small and medium-sized enterprises need a particularly stimulating business environment, and this is particularly true for the craftsmanship. In a competition on the market where multinationals win, the state must support and care for small and crafts enterprises in order to survive. We are not aware that not only 5 or 7 large companies in Slovenia, they provide jobs and taxes equivalent to those of small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, we need to protect domestic and artistic trade as a national value and cultural heritage, whether it be pottery products from Filovec in Prekmurje, Idrija lace, straw from Sveti Juri, fishing dry goods, Belarusian writings, carpentry, carpentry, medicine, plating, embellishment, tanning or smithing, etc. Domestic and artistic craft are an integral part of our national and cultural wealth and tradition in Slovenia, with which the inhabitants produced supplies, tools, everyday use vessels or earned additional funds to support their families. You could say that in the past this activity lived in every Slovenian house. Current data show that there are only 306 domestic and art trades in Slovenia. Many characteristics and cultural specialities would disappear into oblivion if the proper hands of craftsmen were not preserved. In addition, this trade is an indispensable companion to the tourist offer and to enhance the offer of souvenirs that we still cannot offer and sell in Slovenia to an acceptable extent. In doing so, we must not allow only commercial effects and greater earnings to affect bad products, which sometimes, unfortunately, are already confined to the spine. If we want domestic and art products to maintain tradition and quality at the same time, we need to encourage manufacturers to complete the products design and aesthetically, and to follow global trends in utility production, not just for ornamental purposes. By comparing art and home trade with independent cultural workers, we would achieve just that. We would encourage the aesthetic and quality production of products and the maintenance of this activity. At the same time, self-employed persons would be facilitated and assisted in education and production in accordance with the criteria of the competent commission at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Above all, we see in the SLS Group domestic and artistic turnover as an opportunity for new quality and creative jobs that will also attract young people if they have the right to pay social insurance from the budget. It is known that manual work, which is dominant in the domestic and art trades, is not interesting for young people, as it is generally not a big profit. By allowing the State to pay social and health insurance as well as for comparable activities such as self-employed in culture, it would certainly encourage greater interest in continuing this trade and self-employment in this activity, thereby preserving tradition and national wealth. In our view, the law is a good enough basis for further consideration and we will also support the members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Again, a pleasant greeting for all! The proposaler, a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, took seriously and wrote a proposal for a law whose main and sole aim was to maintain domestic and artistic trade in Slovenia and to ensure the conditions for its development. In our view, however, it would be more reasonable to write a law of protection for domestic and artistic trade, in which there would also be clear conditions for obtaining certain rights, including an orderly payment of contributions. Both, i.e. subsidising the payment of contributions and the law, are listed on the website of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the Section for Domestic and Art Crafts, including expecting the assistance of parliamentary parties and competent ministries. But there are several other objectives that we find even more important, even more crucial than product marketing coordination, the coordination of market promotions at home and abroad fairs, the acquisition of necessary European funds and more. We also have no doubt and believe that domestic traditional trade is more affected by several factors in times of crisis than, say, larger and export-oriented companies, but we are skeptical that the preservation of this industry would be achieved precisely and only by paying for the social security contribution of self-employed workers in domestic and artistic trades, and just from the state budget. The applicants are going even so far, and of course we do not want to belittle domestic craftsmen to compare their position with that of self-employed people in the cultural field. We agree, domestic and artistic trades care for the preservation of cultural heritage and national values, and, I will say so, of course, it is necessary to protect them. However, they are not and cannot be comparable to the situation of self-employed persons in the cultural field, since the law and regulation clearly lay down strict conditions for the recognition of this right, i.e. for an exceptional cultural contribution in the last three years or for professions that need to be supported in particular by the establishment of income censorship. In addition, self-employed in the cultural field, it is said that those who perform the art mission in culture, as defined by public interest, are not craftsmen and entrepreneurs who offer their products or products on the market daily. Areas of domestic trade, areas of culture are valued as public interest, but they are not comparable. Problems with the payment of the contribution are also probably not the main reason for the poor conditions and the situation of self-employed people in this area, and even less of the solution and assistance to improve the conditions for their work, as many employees in our country have similar problems. That is why, of course, there are other ways. First of all, I would mention subsidies, including European funds, if it is to maintain this necessary and important activity for our country in the long term. In addition, we do not find such arrangements in other countries, and this is probably what the applicants have also found, since they have not mentioned any such case where they would have it. However, as can be seen from the presentation of the regime in other countries, the applicants have chosen Italy, Germany and the Netherlands, and these countries are focusing on other aids in this trade if it is specifically defined, in particular by different forms of financial assistance, as are available to other undertakings on the market, and are likely to help more than by paying the contributions themselves. The bill, as pointed out in the Government's opinion, would cause discrimination against other craftsmen, and certainly illegal competition, but does not contain any protectors for the control of the possible abuses of this right alone, and the determination of income censorship leaves the Government with a regulation, but does not lay down strict conditions for the acquisition of justice or the like, but this is certainly not the way and the right incentive for the existence and expansion of their activities. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will support the decision in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u34	Mr. President-in-Office. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the law would indeed result in discrimination against other craftsmen and their unequal treatment. Acceptance would also constitute unfair competition between them and, above all, those who would exceed the price and those who would not be eligible for financing of social rights. It is true, however, that it is clear from the material that none of these countries has exactly the legislation that the proponents say and, of course, would in some way allow the right to finance from the social or state budget. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is also not in charge of accepting or overcompensating income contributions if recovery occurs, we know that it is Durs. I would not want to be too long and would like to invite everyone, especially business associations, the Chamber of Commerce and everyone else, to enter into the marriage and to ensure in some way equality between craftsmen. It is right, and I attach it to those who are supposed to be preparing, above all, a protective law for domestic and artificial craftsmanship. This would be progress in terms of handiwork in Slovenia and, of course, in general of these presentations that we have. I can therefore say briefly that the SD Group notes that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tanko made a statement in his capacity as proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I would reply to the Secretary of State that the general debate on the law is primarily about the principles, objectives and main solutions of the bill. We are not going to talk today about these micro-resurrections that occur in the second reading of the bill, but we are talking about the concept, the approach, the fundamental solutions and so on. In short, whether any matter that is the subject of this discussion is necessary to settle it in such a way or to settle it at all or not. I am convinced that this specific area needs to be further stimulated, further regulated and maintained, not only by conservation, but also by the development of this activity. In a situation where we are, in fact, fighting for our cultural or national identity, when we want to show everywhere that we are different from others, our cultural heritage is actually the first one we can use to show that in important areas we are different from others to depart from others. This means that we cannot do domestic and artistic trade or manufacture on high-tech machines, on high-capacity and productive technological machines, but more or less handmade, individually, product for the product. This is not a highly productive commercial activity to cover the Chinese market. However, it is a fact that all these products are domestic and art trades under a severe blow from Chinese producers. To come with other materials, to come with other raw materials, to come with products to Slovenia that are not indigenous Slovenian products. Instead of, I don't know, noise products, you get products from another type of wood that are not indigenous, even these products do not represent Slovenian cultural heritage, although they may be a pure copy of Slovenian cultural heritage. And we must, however we turn, preserve what this land does to our history in a different way from that of others. Fishing dry goods is pond dry goods, it is not Chinese, it is not Polish, it is not Austrian, but it is pond, it is Slovenian. Co-operation, gifts, pottery, where we have developed specific techniques, hand chipping, for example, Idrian lace is an Idrian lace, in Railways it is different, but both are ours, we both work manually, and the production of such articles is likely to need to be stimulated. In any way or in any way, this is a matter that we can specify in the follow-up to the proposal and consideration of this law. But if we decide that for some solutions in order to preserve these activities, that we continue to represent these activities to the Slovenian public, there is probably something that needs to be done in this area. We have put forward a proposal that is summarized in accordance with the 2008 proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Perhaps they have already addressed it and may have it in their 2009 requirements, it is summarised on their proposal. How to precisely place this, text and predict solutions is another issue. But I think that we Members of the National Assembly need to determine in principle whether we are going to preserve or not to preserve carpentry. Whether we will stimulate the activity of hand-crafted craftsmen by enabling or providing them with full or part of the social security contribution. These are not industrial blacksmiths, they are not smiths who use top-notch technological, copying and similar machines, they are hand-made manufacturers. [[...]] And these, if you have read the law, there are only a few more than 300 in Slovenia. This is not a mass activity. And if these 300 activities, these 300 handicrafts, as we say at home, disappear from our cultural space, then probably this cultural heritage that we have will be gone. I think it would be very irresponsible of all of us who have and give much to culture and cultural heritage, as well as to culture in general, to take solutions that will lead to stagnation or closure of this activity. We can probably all imagine that everyone is looking for a way out by getting some good conditions as easily as possible. Handicraft activity, craftsmanship, domestic and art trade are not such as to provide some high-income products, expensive products and high standards. All those who know these people probably know that they are not some super-successful managers, but they have to work all day to ensure what some get in eight or less hours, some even earn more in the Slovenian space than in the whole month. I think it would be very irresponsible that a proposal allowing an exit, some protection, some help, would not be supported. I also wonder what will happen with this bienal exhibition in Slovenj Gradc, when every two years we make a national exhibition of domestic and art craft products. Will we then exhibit Chinese domestic and artistic trade there? Will we present the products of Slovenian domestic and art crafts there? We must probably do something to protect the disappearing Slovenian national speciality and identity. These manufacturers of domestic and art craftsmanship are, if you look at statistics, trends, ever less. Not because they live better, but because conditions are becoming increasingly difficult for them, because even those who know, it is difficult to decide on crafts and handicrafts in domestic and artistic crafts. All those with certain knowledge are also looking for solutions in this area that are better, more promising for them because they can earn faster. As a country, we should probably be in the interest of protecting and protecting these cultural activities, such as chipping, glazing, carpentry, dry-harvesting, pottery, lacquering, etc. And even more. In the introduction, I said in a presentation that the situation is that more and more people are coming to the institution, who also have such knowledge because they live in rural environments. Companies are failing, some know-how still exist, there are people who can do this, and I think it is much cheaper to allow them with 100 Euros of social assistance to develop an activity, a domestic and an art trade for which they do not need expensive technological products, but let's say a chisel, a twist and a similar thing, these are cheap things to prosper and maintain. I think this is significantly cheaper than 500 euros in unemployment benefits. Anyone who in this way seeks a solution to preserve this activity and to solve his problem with 100 euros, if they make a contribution to what we have proposed, 100 euros, is significantly cheaper than what the state will give him if he lands in the institution and waits for the state to take the next step forward and allow him to work somewhere. Why do we not encourage such aids to prevent people from finding channels and working and producing themselves within the knowledge they have? For us, a better solution is to subsidise working time, non-productive working time, that is to say waiting for work, it is not a problem for us to give one-off cash assistance, which I support for these, but with 500 euros it has 5 months of work and can deal in this way for 5 months with some project that is likely to be realized and also provide for survival. We also need to develop solutions that encourage people to search for self-employment and, in the example of independent cultural workers, many of them are not cultural workers, but are commercial, architects, builders and similar, enjoying the benefits of self-employed people in culture. Here, in fact, when it comes to Slovenian cultural heritage, to Slovenian specialities, the government takes the view that these people or these activities would not be allowed to do so. I do not think that the Government's approach in this part is the best, and I certainly do not support such thinking. I therefore reiterate that it would make sense, given that domestic trade is disappearing, to take advantage of certain potentials because these skills are transferred intergenerationally, from generation to generation, so that even in this area they can make a breakthrough and perhaps to the hundreds, two hundred additionally ensure the establishment of domestic and artistic activities in the area of Prekmurje, in the area of Ribnica, including Dolenjska, etc. This knowledge exists and it is a shame that we do not maintain or even develop it with a minimum cartridge or with minimal relief. I think that's too bad. And I would expect such a solution to be supported by such a proposal. I agree, however, that there is also a lot to consider and perhaps some other matter to be settled. Definitely. No law that we submit to the legislative procedure goes through the legislative procedure to the third treatment without limitation. Practically in all laws, 90% of the articles have been amended, corrected, completed. And it is likely that this law will experience the same fate and any future. And I think it is necessary to take a proactive approach to such proposals, to see what they bring, whether the objectives are such as to bring certain solutions or not. Are the objectives such as to bring destruction? Domestic and artistic trade does not constitute any unfair competition of any kind. He can't. A homemade carpsmith does not leave any unfair competition to any plumber, no electrician, no other similar activity, no inn because it cannot, because they are disappearing and these activities are failing. The explanation that it represents unfair competition is ridiculous. Underhanded competition is China's offer. Unloyal competition may be Polish, Czech, Slovak in this area, because they may have similar knowledge and a significantly cheaper workforce. There is no other unfair competition. We don't have a problem helping importers, I don't know, Chinese products. But the problem is to give some minimal support to those who preserve our tradition, our history. I think it will also be necessary in these areas to think fundamentally about our approaches, our positions and, above all, our actions, both in the Government and in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I am also aware of the importance of art and home trade, and probably there is no Member who would not agree at the principal level with the applicant.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u39	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u40	The real domestic and artistic trade is the one that will give Slovenia some added value, which will make people come to us and buy something from us. What Hofer and Spari are doing to us is not the kind of thing that makes tourists come to us. And these are not things that Slovenia sells to anyone. However, apart from domestic and art craft, the added value is certainly design. There will be a great deal of emphasis on industrial design. These are things that are added value. In the proposal for a law, as we have heard, I regret to disagree with the fact that such a trade would be equivalent to independent cultural workers. Of course, there are other ways in which the government is likely to be able to further support domestic and artistic craftsmanship. However, this proposed law does not think it appropriate to support it at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The proposal for a law on the right to pay social security contributions and self-employed persons in art trade provides better conditions for domestic craft, a better position for domestic and art crafts, where production is not at the forefront of production, but is of a handicrafting nature. Of course, it is a desire to build on this kind of activity, which would allow this law to achieve the desired rural objectives. This kind of activity needs to be understood in its entirety, not only in terms of self-employment, but also has a broader meaning for the visibility of cultural heritage. It is therefore appropriate to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As a party's position, I have indicated that the Slovenian National Party will abstain in this proposal. However, to be honest, on my own behalf, I say that the proposaler has convinced me with some very well-founded reasons for proposing this law and I will personally support and vote in favour of it. With one comment that it might be necessary to set the separators, the criteria, what is a domestic art trade and what is, if we are talking about classical art, that something is not to be confused here. True, classical art is sometimes also produced in the spine and is subsidized and supported by the state. So if this is actually one of the preservation of domestic Slovenian national trades, it is called respect for cultural heritage, and if there are precise, precise criteria set here, if there is some indirect control of it, then in any case I will personally support such a law and give it to the proposer right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am, in fact, in a way, deeply embarrassed when we discuss this law, because I find that we are actually dying or disappearing into oblivion of a whole range of craftsmanship - traditional and also those that we can call artificial craftsmanship, on the one hand, and on the other hand I am aware that we also need craftsmanship, which facilitates life and does everything that we urgently need for normal functioning. If I remember a few decades ago, the old city centre in Maribor had quite a few crafty workshops. Now you're missing and you can't find anyone else who can get his shoes fixed, and probably not everyone throws their shoes away. We have one watch alone, which I often visit, and in his workshop, I think, for several decades, nothing has changed. And you could also list those craftsmen and craftsmen who, when retired, because of different laws and various high-paid contributions, find themselves after retirement in a situation where they do not have enough pension to survive. But when they want to ask themselves what we can do to make it easier in a legal way by means of a registered activity, let's say an additional activity in an artificial craft, something like this, something that we can live with. If you look at what is defined as an artificial craft, then many of these cannot be classified and cannot be legally classified, I say again, to ensure a normal life. Therefore, to me, the issue we are discussing is worth considering from different perspectives. I would like to open another aspect that is also very important to me. The law refers to the problem of self-employed people. Like those who monitor self-employment, in particular women, I find that self-employed women have the most social problems because they are often found as contractual co-workers, contractors of business contracts or something like that, and have lost their first job. I also attach great importance to self - employment because in these times it may be the only way out of unemployment. There's a lot of trouble. If I add to this European guidelines on how to support the activities of small businesses and self-employed people, there are many reasons to think about this. However, if I come out of this bill now, I must say that the proposal, as it is written down, no matter what the Government has written down, and I will not repeat what has already been said, puts this bill in a very unconvincing situation. I know that this bill, according to the leadership of the National Assembly, meets the conditions it must have. So it has those three cases at the outset, but however I turn the three countries that have been set up, I find no justification for solving the example of paying contributions to self-employed workers in domestic and artistic trades in the manner proposed, but rather focusing on what housing associations or professional associations, industry associations are doing better to develop this activity, as they say, a friendly business environment. If I add what I also hear from experts who get to know each other, who are at various festivals or meetings assessing what can be included in this artificial or domestic trade, then of course I would expect the chambers and other housing associations here to play a proactive role and solve the problem where the problem arises. This is a longer-term decision, a better solution, perhaps with some one-off overcompensation subsidies. There's only one case I'd give. Probably in memory of someone still alive is Nobel Peace Prize winner who got the money for giving money to women who had escaped from poverty by buying sewing machines and starting an activity that they could survive themselves and their families. So more encouragement is needed in what it means to start an activity. If I think about these things that I see around me, some things are that we can't turn against the current. I'll tell you a case I know from my homework. We used to buy kitchens in dry-cleaners, then became modern plastic kitchens, now we buy kitchens in supermarkets, and look who are the manufacturers of these kitchens: most often Austrian wood companies. Recently, though, I was delighted to find that some of our manufacturers offer kitchens made of cherrywood, which are significantly better than others. And I, who have higher income, can think of a kitchen like that. I want to say that education, through adaptation, is possible with additional incentives to tackle the problem, which is a real problem that exists and which I think we really should do more to preserve this rich tradition that exists in our country. There's only one more case I'd like to remind you of. Idri's lace was mentioned. We do know how an Idrian lace can be found today also on unique clothes or shoes and gets a different price. So I am for finding such paths and preparing such pathways that will promote what exists between us and is worth preserving and developing. However, I cannot support those things that are found at the beginning to be inequities between craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! For me, laws that give new added value to rural development, which can create more interesting rural areas for young people to stay in their homes, are good laws for me. This means that this proposed law on the right to payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons in domestic and art trade is a good law. It is therefore self-employed, I stress, self-employed, who, according to my assessment of the crisis, are very important and need to be given attention. In addition, they retain the Slovenian cultural heritage in this case. This certainly is not easy at the time of the flood of a variety of hindsight coming to us from all over the world, because they are only difficult to compete with all these plastic products and I do not know all the products. And in this case it goes, according to my assessment of the competitiveness of those who keep our tradition, after all. In Slovenia there are many such cases, from potters to roofers with straw, manufacturers of cympered houses, and lanterns. If I touch only the landscape from which I come and know the matter much better than elsewhere. It should also be stressed that we are more or less all in order to bring complementary activities to the Slovenian countryside to a greater extent. And the ones we're talking about, they certainly are. So for activities that, as I said, will make the Slovenian countryside more friendly, more friendly to Slovenian youth, in order to stay as far as possible in our rural area, so that the countryside remains treated, arranged, as we all want. It's not some big system story, it's a little pebble in a mosaic, and I think we should add it to that mosaic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! I will support the proposal for a law on the right to payment of social security contributions to self-employed domestic and art craftsmen. For we are living in such a time, and we are talking in practice about the crisis every day, about lost jobs and certainly every job is important. We are constantly getting a glimpse of how the previous government was doing. She created many new jobs, and each one was difficult. As hard as it is to win it, you lose it very quickly. And if there's no alternative, that could be a big problem. In my opinion, this law is also a part of the mosaic, if some people could be allowed or given an incentive in this way to self-employment and make it easier for those who are already doing so. For many are busy, and in the afternoon they are still engaged in some craftsmanship because they have invaluable knowledge that their father, Grandpa, may have given him. The knowledge that is being lost, at the same time, is attached to this family tradition and is, in fact, always a dilemma, whether it should continue to do so or let it all go away. And if the state can't help him and step in front of him, that's probably a lot harder. We say many times that we stayed and stayed because of culture. We also compare self-employed people in culture in this debate. These are close to 2,000, if I know anything, or even more. While self-employed in domestic and art trade are only a little over 300. We should probably all be aware that 300 people in Slovenia who can still make products from various materials, which are part of our tradition and part of our history, are participating in various competitions, trade hall exhibitions in the production of souvenirs of the Republic of Slovenia or something like that. We should probably all be aware of the fact that it is right for this segment to do something for these people. Some of you gave us instructions and suggested that it was necessary to protect the art trade in order to prepare such a law. Of course, so can you, if you really think it is necessary and there is a problem here, is it just an excuse not to give your vote to this law that we have prepared. The Chamber of Commerce also points out that if self-employment in the field of domestic and art production were to increase, this might also reduce the volume of black work. We know if someone is at work, and then a little later in the afternoon doing such a thing, it's always a dilemma, or whether they should do it officially, to sign up, hire, or pay, or eventually be able to pay all the taxes that the state expects when it has something registered. Very current Mura, probably even from the Mura, could be self-employed and start making a load or something like that. In Prekmurje, we know that the highest unemployment rate in the country. And there are a lot of things people can do. Both from ironing and other materials. And it is likely that for one such province in Slovenia, the approach we have taken in our parliamentary group by introducing this law can be appropriate and could possibly create a job. As we say, jobs are created one by one. It is necessary to start with such things where a country with its contribution, which is not so large again, can create a large deficit due to this in the state budget, thus allowing for self-employment. That is why, of course, I will support the law, and I suggest that the coalition Members consider supporting the law themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, I have no dilemma as to whether to support or not the proposal for this law. I would also like all those who predicted that you would not support this proposal to clear up these dilemmas. I would not repeat the words that I have already spoken in the position of the Group of Members, but I must say that a number of cultural specificities would disappear into oblivion if they did not retain this right hand of hand, craftsmen, which we have all over Slovenia in various activities that I and my colleagues have mentioned before. In addition, most of our areas in Slovenia are faced with the problem of the recognition of some tourist attractions in the context of the tourist offer. Unfortunately, there are few areas that can offer any products in this area, any specific features from a particular area. If we list what we could offer in individual parts of Slovenia, we will get to many products, but almost no one is already producing or producing in such small quantities that we are not normally able to talk about a tourist offer. Of course, I think it is extremely important that this trade also creates new quality and creative jobs, which are now a particular problem in all parts of our country. In the opinion of the Government, I have listened to the reasons why the Government opposes this law, and I feel that these reasons are not convincing. The fact is that this is the law at first reading, and the fact is, as colleagues have already said, that most of the laws at the stage of second reading are also being fundamentally corrected. And in this case it is. The reason for the unfair competition is that in this case we probably also have some other activities where we are facing, perhaps for the same reasons, according to your definition of unfair competition. But I'm sure it's possible to remove this dilemma because you're also saying there's a lot of inconsistencies and so on. I think it is possible to correct these inadequacies in the amendment form. Given that the coalition confirms the importance of this problem or issue, the importance of this activity, however, you are predicting opposition to this law, from which I conclude that the law is unlikely to receive support, I am interested in the opinion of the Government. How, though, will the government solve this pressing problem? On the one hand, this could solve the social problem of many families, and on the other hand what we talked about - about the cultural specificity of Slovenia when we are talking about the tourist offer and so on. I will also not mention the possibility of self-employment in these times of crisis, when groups of people from all over the companies have lost their jobs overnight as well. As I had previously announced for the Group of Members, I will, of course, also personally support the proposal of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The law under consideration in the procedure on the right to pay social security contributions to self-employed workers in domestic and art trade is certainly an important measure to improve the situation in this area and also to preserve and promote this area. We all know that we people decide to buy products on the market, which is ruthless to this installation of crafts and to manufacturers who produce products on a smaller scale. We all buy the cheapest products, which are mostly of industrial origin. Even all trading chains do not support self-employed or art crafts. If we look at it this way, it means that someone has to approach this part of the economy, which can be important in Slovenia and which also helps to identify our places and our crafts, accelerate. So, in this case, we can only talk about one institutional arrangement. And this is where the country comes in as other institutions. The importance of these crafts depends, of course, on the type of time and spatial accommodation. It is said that every trade is not likely to develop in every area of Slovenia. And it is precisely because of these spatialities that it is even more important that we try in a systematic way to support this domestic and artistic trade. Domestic craft and art is not only a producer of something, but also a bearer of some values, both historical and identity in that space. We all know that the premises in the cities and the rentals in the centres are too expensive, so some craftsmen who have worked in the past are leaving these premises and looking for other jobs. This also loses the knowledge that came from generation to generation. We also know that this trend will be difficult to reverse, because Western societies have somehow highlighted craftsmanship as less interesting for young people, and thus education has somehow fallen in this direction. It is common to think that craft schools are only for those who are unable to make schools in other sectors or in other directions. This is especially true of domestic and artistic craftsmanship. However, if we look in the long term, it would be a meaningful heritage of knowledge of home and art trade to protect, not least as a national value and cultural heritage. This would also be greatly helped by this law, which is on the table, at first reading, which means that we can upgrade it, as my colleagues have already said. However, this can only happen if we confirm it at this first reading and allow it to improve. The main solution to this law is to obtain the right to pay a contribution to compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance from the State budget for manufacturers or manufacturers of domestic and art crafts. This is a solution, or aid, which is equal to the aid granted to self-employed persons in a culture by the same country. The amount of aid proposed in this Act is also the same as the proposed aid in the amount of coverage of the minimum pension base for social and health insurance as provided for in Article 208, paragraph 4, of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. In any event, the purpose of this law is to preserve domestic and artistic trade in Slovenia and to ensure the conditions for its development. I agree with some that it is necessary to complete the individual segments of this law. The only way to do this is to confirm the law at first reading that you are also contributing by the coalition a voice that will allow further consideration of this law, and thus the possibility of improvement in the cases you have cited. In any event, this law is also in some direction during times of recession and job conservation, and it can be one of the most important stones in this story. Also because of the strategy Slovenia has to develop service activities and some recognition in terms of improving the offer in tourism, this domestic and artistic trade would greatly help to achieve this goal, which Slovenia has in some way set itself. That is why I will certainly support and appeal to all that this first step is successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that the efforts of Mr Tank's proposal give me a positive assessment. But it is also true that this law must be finalized. I'll just give you one case. I have a acquaintance who is an artificial blacksmith and an excellent artificial blacksmith. He has 10 employees, works all over Slovenia, and works in Austria, where he is wanted, he has a lot of work to do. Right now, this is a great deal for him. I think it's just to say hello. But this is already going in the direction of industrial activity. This is no longer the case with your handiwork dealing with artificial, domestic craftsmanship. This is something completely different. That's why I'm saying it's unfair competition. Throw it all in the same basket, it's not acceptable. And throw in the same basket of some additional activities on farms, not appropriate, not the same. Those who engage in additional farming activities are completely different from those who engage in artificial craftsmanship. That's probably clear, too. And those who are engaged in artificial craftsmanship need special status. And it is true, as colleagues say, that such artists belong in the old parts of the city, that they should be encouraged in different ways, that they should probably have spaces for free if we want to keep them, and so on and so forth. In general, I can say that we have many specialities, uniqueness, excellence and so on in Slovenia. It was said: co-operation, chipping and so on. We also talked about Slovenj Gradc when the fair of presentations of domestic and unique craftsmen. Otherwise, it's an international fair, not just our presentations, and everyone is there. From this conclusion I could simplify: all chambers, all associations - industry and others, of course others, should also approach the protection law for domestic and artificial craftsmanship. This would be necessary in Slovenia. For this reason, at this point I can say that I cannot support such a law in such a form, but I would expect this work to continue and we will come to what an artificial and domestic trade in Slovenia really does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of discussers. Would you like a word from the government? Please, if you'd like. Please, Mrs. Darja Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you. I've already said the government's opinion. As I said in the opening presentation, it is also clear that the Government is also aware of domestic and artistic crafts in Slovenia. However, the very way to approach a more successful development or even maintain this activity in Slovenia, as proposed by the SDS Group with this law, is not right in our opinion. As I said in the introduction, these activities or this area need to be tackled in a comprehensive manner, with comprehensive measures that will not only help those self-employed with 100 euros in the exemption of one contribution, but will in fact, by other measures, which will also be more targeted at the full market, help them to better sell and live their products. This has also been presented below. In fact, I think that the right approach is to make a proper analysis of what the actual situation is in the field of domestic and artificial trade in Slovenia is, and also to identify what are the most appropriate measures, and to propose to the National Assembly, on the basis of one expert analysis, the adoption of the necessary laws, which could be derived from this analysis or from an expert proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? He does. Please, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to say that I'm not really surprised by the government's position. It has not yet taken place in this mandate that any proposal proposed in the parliamentary group would be a sufficient basis for the continuation of the procedure. It hasn't happened in this term. We have proposed a system-wide package of measures, and we have proposed five laws from this package. None of the issues that we have proposed have been a suitable basis for further consideration. If we wait, Madam Secretary of State, and you can also tell the Minister, systemic measures in this area, the mandate will be too short. Given the speed, given the dynamics that are taking place, given the responses to the current situation in the country and the wider environment, this mandate will be far too short for us to experience any systemic proposal in this area. This idea that Mr Kampush has given that the law should be rejected, but expects the work to continue. The moment the law is rejected, the work in this area will no longer continue. I doubt the government will be the one to start dealing with the 306 who are self-employed in domestic and art trade. I doubt it. I doubt she'll be looking for systemic solutions for them. I doubt it. He can't find out about Mura, but there are ten times as many, and they're all in the pile, not for this scattered activity all over Slovenia. We must be aware that we have one who has the status of domestic and artistic trades, tens of thousands or 15,000 inhabitants in this country, or 8 thousand. These people aren't immense amounts. We can't make selections between them. We are now trying to preserve what is left of the status of the home and art establishment or what represents the Slovenian tradition and the rest of our past. We are actually working now to provide conditions for the continuation of this. We're not dealing with how we're going to make gambling money easier, so I don't know what's going to happen next. We are working to try to make a move so that the 306 would also be at the end of 306, and if it would be possible, if the happiness would be nice to have 30 or 50 more in this area at the end of next year. That's what we're talking about. And I think that this goal of ours should be to set such conditions, to maintain our activities, and perhaps to include some more in this status of domestic and artistic craft, for which there may be some kind of knowledge, but there is no one who would take it, because it is probably not worth it and does not see any particular meaning in this. I would also like to say that acquiring the status of domestic and artistic craftsmanship is probably not in itself given. For someone to get that status, it takes some kind of procedure. If memory doesn't deceive me, it shares the status of the home and art trade commission led by Dr. Janez Bogotaj. I think that he is still in charge of this committee, that there are representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, who weigh very carefully and carefully check whether such status, according to activity, is granted according to the products that will be produced at all. It is extremely difficult to obtain this status, which is also justified because it is an activity which is a craftsmanship which is not industrial. I think it's because of the way you even get to him that these things need to be kept. And we need to move forward in order to increase the motivation so that we can expect some significant improvement in this area. I would also like to inform you that there is an action in Slovenia to establish regional centres of domestic and art crafts. This activity is financed by foreign resources, through European funds, I think that the Norwegian mechanism is the one that has supported at least some of the centres that are created in individual regional environments where these activities and products are to take place and display. So if foreigners support this, we must do something for ourselves to even get those who have kept this activity alive who can do it. Only museum exhibits will not keep this, we have enough museums in Ljubljana. This is what we need to maintain in the field in order to maintain the activity, for example, in Ribnica, in Dobrepol, in Filovci and so on. We have two extremely large fairs in Slovenia in the field of domestic and art crafts. One is the Fishing Fair and at the same time it is Šušterska Sunday, handicrafts. That's where the part that works on your hand is represented. I'm sure they won't go there just to the openings to tell the ceremony, I don't know what. These two fairs are because we want to show in a concentrated way what is left in these areas of domestic and art craft. It's precisely because of the preservation of tradition. That's exactly why. And if we continue to do so, we need to know that, I think in ten years, the number of domestic and art craftsmen, if I am not mistaken, has reduced by one third. In ten years. If we do not take any concrete action, we can also take a partial measure such as this, and perhaps another systemic one, we can only have products from recognised Italian companies that we can get anywhere in Trieste, not domestic trade products. Something similar will be possible at the Fishing Fair when we present Chinese manufacturers in the central part where the domestic and art trade is presented. Yeah, it's probably not a tradition or a wish for us to die like that. As far as the amount is concerned. The aid for any of those who could be placed in this status is lower than that 15 % of the widow's pension allowance for the Yugoslav People's Army's insured. Smaller to cover that amount! And there's a big problem that we're going to give some stimulation, some chance that we're going to keep it, and there was no problem at all. If you are citing an international comparison, perhaps other countries do not approach here because of the standard and general situation in this way. That's what we need. However, even when you voted in favour of widow's pensions in the Yugoslav People's Army, there was no country in Europe that had it in the same way - nor was there a problem! In this case, when the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes a concrete step to regulate a segment that is supposed to survive, an international comparison is a problem because it is not. Where there was a superstandard, I can say superstandard, because none of them were at risk, but there was no problem. I think we need to deal with this country in an appropriate and equitable manner. I have to say again that I expect that there is enough wisdom between us, that we will support the law, that we will allow all those who have this kind of knowledge to gain status, for example, to become self-employed, to open up an activity, to solve part of the social problems for one-fifth of the costs, as we would have if we did not allow it, because everyone who stays in the institution is five times more expensive than this kind of assistance, but whatever the source comes from at the end: either from the economy or from the economy or from the work or from the financial or from the budget reserve; no matter where it goes. The state's tax resources are all of them. If the Ministry of Economy in this area is unable to provide control for 300 people, then another resort will do so with the amendment, another inspection or anyone else will do so. I see no reason to approach these problems in any other way or to put the problem on hand, I don't know when. I have to say, I am very happy when I received these books; one from 2008, the same. We have read them in the previous term with all due respect, and we have also summarized a number of things in these matters. I think it is very irresponsible of the person who has tried to make this booklet, to make this review of the necessary measures, to make this set of measures not to support it in its efforts; but most of all it should be done by the one who stood for this booklet and sent a number of letters with this booklet to a number of addresses. I think that the active role of the one who was on board to prepare these things would be extremely important and should do everything in order to make the solutions from this package even work, realize, accept and enable those who could make a breakthrough and move forward - to enable them to do so. I think that this is a key, fundamental task of leaving this aside, ignoring some systemic institution that has 30 or 40,000 legal entities of such or other forms of organisation behind it, is irresponsible. That is why I also look forward to supporting our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Report. Four reported, five minutes each. Mr. Clown, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u62	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Good afternoon, Secretary of State and all my colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am pleased to follow the discussions on trade and small economy, because so many times this very important activity or segment in our society, the economic segment, has never been given so much attention or attention. I believe, or I want to believe, that we are truly aware of the importance of this segment in our society, that we will also be able to see differently those who try every day to provide themselves, families and their employees with daily bread and quality and safe jobs. We are aware that it is necessary to listen to this segment and to provide it with only appropriate working conditions. These companies, these family companies, do not require any grants to then rehabilitate or ensure the existence of a faulty act either by investment or by management or by any other means. I hope that we will also take a step forward in this area, all together, and that we will not only be very loud when there are still cheap political points to be built on these shoulders. Unfortunately, in the segment that we are talking about today, these 300 people who probably don't agree today that there are some things that they want to show up on their backs in one way or another. To these people and to this segment she has listened, unfortunately, only the Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia and a handful of people who were able to appreciate what domestic and artificial craft means, that it is a little girl in the eyes of our existence, creation, history, if you want, part of the identity of this nation, to preserve what we are actually losing every day. Domestic and artistic trade is undoubtedly something other than the rest of craft and entrepreneurship. Here is the knowledge that has been preserved to this day and is, unfortunately, not passed on to young people all the time. For many times it has been found that this is not interesting, it is not interesting, and there is no immediate gain to drive in one way or another. Once again, I am pleased to discuss this and to give more attention to it. However, I am convinced that the whole area needs to be addressed urgently. And as has already been said, domestic and art trade is very well controlled and here we should congratulate especially those of the commission and those of those people, led by the rich man who has been leading for so many years and who - not to the one who would like it, but to the one who is able to make this product so that he can get a certificate, then he gets the opportunity to put on his product the "product of domestic art craft" label. And we don't know enough about this as consumers, as customers, and we don't make enough use of it for those purposes that would be very useful and possibly promote tourism as well. Chinese certainly don't go to Ribnica. We also have among those who advertise themselves as manufacturers of domestic and art trades such who import products successfully from China, also at fairs, both in the Ribnica and elsewhere, represent and sell them as products of domestic and art trades. I hope that we will indeed make an order here to take into account the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and that we will fully protect this segment so that tomorrow, not only 300, but also 500, 600, as we once did, were increased only because we corrected the law and increased the standard expenditure and perhaps there will be something else to do about it. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have not been on the list of debaters, but I have listened carefully to previous debaters, and I therefore believe that a few words must also be said in support of the Government's opinion and of what has led the Government to say or write that the proposed law should not be supported. The fact is, when I have listened to comparisons with the adopted law amending the law on the pension insurance of military personnel and the apparent fact that the funds allocated to widows and widowers by military persons far exceed the resources the State should have allocated to compulsory pension and health insurance of craftsmen artificial and domestic craftsmen and that this is a matter of equalizing rights, I would only like to comment on this comment. When we speak of widows and widowers after military persons, this was certainly an example of a pronounced violation of the constitutional right of equality before the law, while this law is about the introduction of inequality. That is to say, quite the contrary, and for this reason I would say that if nothing else were to be done, it would be necessary to consider that 30,000 natural and legal persons who are members of the Chamber of Commerce could certainly have a whole range of craft operators, not artificial or domestic establishments, which would say that I too, with my work, earn enough to be able to pay compulsory health and pension insurance on a regular basis, and I would also like to be insured in this way by means of the State. The shoemaker who works on my street is threatened with social security because shoemaking is no longer a business in which we can make a lot of money. The same is true for tailors, the same is true for clocks, the same is true for a whole range of other professions that are very important to us when we need them and we are all angry if we do not find such craftsmen in our vicinity. At the same time, we would help only one part of craftsmen who are engaged in a very important trade - not to misunderstand how happy I am when I meet a craftsman or craftsman, for example, a craftsman who does not have any concrete products to carry to the festival or presentation of the art trade in Slovenj Gradec, for example, covering the roof with straw when we import operators, manufacturers of these roofs from Hungary, because of the locals, I don't know what it's called, straw roof makers are no longer, or it is, as I know, one or two, and it's probably just before or far into it. Moreover, the question is a great deal because this law is very poorly prepared. Given the fact that the most powerful opposition party was also the leading party in the coalition in the previous term, it was possible for its experts a year ago to have them draft such a law as would be of quality and would have been automatically adopted. Because of the fact that this coalition systematically rejects the laws imposed by the biggest opposition party, of course, if they are bad and if they are still so often prepared - this is, in fact, not - that the segments are simply stolen from the government laws that are in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Home and art trade are certainly part of our cultural heritage, part of our identity, which has been created over the centuries and has been passed on from generation to generation. It also means re-establishing certain skills that have been acquired during history and in terms of survival. That is why this domestic trade is specific and cannot perform on the market today as a pure market activity, because also products of this trade require a specific approach from this heritage. In eternal cases it's manual work, so it's unique, and that also means that it can't be completely cheap either, because maybe I'll give you a little weird example, but I'll say not to just "flash." On the other hand, we should not be surprised if certain trades are disappearing because people prefer to buy plastic products, especially from East Asian countries, from China because of the price. There is a labor force cheap, but it may also be, when we say, this spine, of course, for us is a kick, but for some China, it is only possible that it is part of their identity, only that it is possible to "flash" or do it on a machine that sprays plastic. The fact is, when we speak of Slovenia in this case in a country, some activity is dried up for financial reasons, then it also drys up that knowledge; this knowledge, which has been passed on from generation to generation, from century to century. Of course, this is why it is specific and also requires a specific approach. We cannot say that there is a market here, but that they should behave on the market, as they know and know, so the measures envisaged here are what they are. I also agree with the fact that perhaps some things should be changed, to be completed. The ideas in the debate were, but the opportunity to do so is only if the process continues, if we say that it is not a suitable basis, the matter is over, as if a single twist is drying up for all eternity. The question is whether you will remember in the coalition, and what you now say is that you support, that it is good, that it is possible to do otherwise, so you do not support that you will do so. I doubt you will. Besides, what kind of marriage have we not yet fixed? Few were such that we did not complement them, some fewer and some slightly more. The content - such as it is - is certainly a suitable basis for it to continue and also to change and that the comments you have made can be made, otherwise we cannot enter them. We have many regrets that many say that they would like to market the matter, yes, they would, only who will make it, and when some knowledge disappears, you have nothing to market from this area; you can market, I don't know, Chinese, artificial, those wooden birds or whatever, but not our own products. It should be mentioned here that perhaps our learning system should at some time adapt to be raised for certain professions that are rare in order to retain their knowledge, otherwise it will not work. I would now like to say a few more words when it was said that if we went as planned, this would be unfair competition. I don't know who. Okay, maybe so, but, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you of one terrible unfair competition, this is a student's job. Ask the craftsmen. Those who have registered people have to pay all the benefits to work for them, they don't have to work for them, but we don't have to deal with them that badly. Here in the art of craftsmanship, however, we would view this as unfair competition. The fact is, if you reject the law as an inappropriate basis, then you have also rejected this content that you spoke of as meaningful. And maybe I'll make you a little uncomfortable about how you're going to vote. The only way in which the matter remains in the procedure can be changed and complemented and given to the content you have proposed and to which you have also raised concerns. That's why I'm going to support this marriage and I'm counting on you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to perform without prejudice. If I were the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government, I'd like to ask everyone to reconsider. We need to think. When I listened to the opposition today, I take the risk of saying that sometimes the opposition can be right. In this case, I see a lot of legitimate expectations, which also stem from this bill. I myself have done such, interesting work years ago, and in my travels I have been very interested in how they resolve the issue of traditional crafts in other countries. I remember the case of Mexico the most. In 1947, Mexico even established a government fund for the promotion and assistance of such crafts, so-called "fund art". This is a state institution that works to help such craftsmen with both contributions and marketing. What the Secretary of State has said is one of the ideas I may be missing in this bill which could in many ways improve the promotion and promotion of domestic and traditional trades. With meaningful policy, the country should allow for better marketing, more articulated marketing. At the same time, I do not see what would be opposed to proposals to facilitate the living conditions of those 306 craftsmen dealing with this particular type of traditional craftsmanship. A Commission has been mentioned which gives these products some clearly added value. It is a quality that needs to be appreciated, and I think in this context, in this light, there is a legitimate requirement that these people be granted some status. In the end, the State shall also grant the artists a reasonable and justifiable recognition of certain status and certain reliefs. I don't see why you wouldn't listen to those demands. I'm not going to go into the law itself, it's probably a lot of flaws, but the intent of the law is good and I wouldn't dare vote against this law if I didn't get clear assurances from the government that an alternative that would be better than this law would be on the table right away. Before continuing with the procedure for the adoption of this law, I would like to have a clear assurance from the Government how, in which direction it intends to draw up an alternative law that will be more complex, better and will also offer and deal with these aspects of marketing in essence. If not, I'm afraid what my colleague Tanko said is true. If we don't vote for this law, then the matter will be an adjective and we won't talk about it anymore. We have to stop this. I invite everyone to think about it again. It's until Wednesday. I welcome the intention of this proposal, and perhaps this would also be an opportunity for once the opposition and the position to align partially with the point in the interest of this country, its traditional art. 'Cause that's the one. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The attempt to keep this art out of our wits, which threatens us, and if the state is not here, also Mr Richtaj, who is the most competent person for it, will not be able to protect our trade from the temptations of the spine, which is more market-oriented. [[...]] Well, my support for this law is principled. I hope that we will also get the right answers and provide them by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - First defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 22 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a representative of the bill's proponents, mag. Andre Visiak, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! In the opposition and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcomed the State's intention to prevent a credit crunch by allowing lending to economic operators also through the State's guarantee. In fact, we have already made this possible by adopting the Public Finance Act at the end of last year. In view of the rapid response to the crisis and the rise in economic activity, or the continuation of those economic projects that operators have led in the past year or in the past years, this guarantee scheme should come to life substantially earlier and thus start to deliver results substantially earlier. The guarantee scheme entered into force or the effect of this law was reflected in nature only about a bad month ago and at that time the crisis was so deepened that a number of economic operators who had hoped for some more ambitious plans and the resuscitation of this crisis had failed. Therefore, I wonder whether the Guarantee Scheme Act even helps those who were at first most vulnerable and at the same time the most promising. Therefore, it illustrates, of course, the adoption of this law, or action, of any operational capacity of this government and of all those involved in this preparation of the law. I must say that it was very unfair for them to refer to the National Assembly or to procedural complications in connection with the implementation of this important measure. It was very clear that the Government had insisted that the Guarantee Scheme Act, with which the lenders were creditors, would be financial institutions, banks in the Republic of Slovenia - that this law would prevent the possibility that such strengthened banks would also deal with the financing of the management, i.e. the ownership consolidation of enterprises, the financing of management acquisitions or acquisitions in general and the financial activities which had no bearing on the crisis. If the State has offered a hand to financial institutions and the economy in terms of providing guarantees, it is appropriate that these guarantees and that banks concentrate on those activities which the State considers to be priority. These are: the provision of operating capital for business activity, the promotion of additional business activities, new development projects, new investments, not the ownership consolidation of managers' buy-ins and the like. We welcomed the government's commitment to not strengthening the guarantee scheme, which also deals with reprogramming or even new approval of credits for so-called Taiwanese loans or managers' buy-backs, but unfortunately we were disappointed, because the government has given in, it has accepted a compromise that banks in the guarantee scheme, that is to say, who have received this state aid, have also been able to continue with the activity of managers' buy-ins, the ownership consolidation of companies. Of course, conditions were laid down here if there is something illegal or if procedures are laid down before supervisory institutions, but in principle the State or Government, then also the majority in the National Assembly, did not absolutely prohibit such strengthened banks from also dealing with the reprogram or by granting new loans for the purchase and acquisition of managers. That is why the purpose of this law, these amendments to the law, is to prevent the possibility of reprogramming or approving disputed so-called management or tycoon loans. The main solution is thus the prohibition of giving, including reprogramming, which is one Article, and the second Article, that banks which are in the State aid scheme should be prohibited from giving, or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] reprogramming of larger loans. [[...]] We therefore believe that this will make it very clear what the purpose of the Guarantee Scheme Act is, as well as a clear message to banks about how the Government sees priorities if someone receives state aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you. Ms Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. You have received a written opinion from the Government regarding the proposed law, so I will not present it again. The essence of the Government's opinion is that the amendments to the law do not support the arguments why it does not support it, I think that much has been said when considering it, both the Public Finance Act and the Guarantee Scheme Act, so I do not want to stress them again. It may be worth noting that any frequent amendment to the guarantee scheme law would further create obstacles to the implementation of this law. And this may also be one of the possible arguments why it would not be appropriate to interfere frequently with this law, especially because the scheme is running. Three auctions have already been made. According to the bank's previous responses, all three auctions have been very successful. The results of how banks will distribute loans or what the interest of specific borrowers is, I do not yet have, and it is likely that within a week up to 14 days it will be possible to provide data on the results of the first tender from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The law on the guarantee scheme, which was adopted in March this year, is constantly being subjected to constant attacks and criticism, as a result of which several amendments to this basic law have also been tabled. While some of the recovery proposals were entirely justified, given that the arrangement in this area was completely new, it was not possible to draw on practical experience. It was therefore necessary to address these anomalies and the shortcomings of the novelisation. Today we have yet again a new amendment aimed at completely eliminating the possibility of reprogramming or approving disputed so-called management or tycoon loans. The proposer shall propose to prohibit the granting of loans or guarantees to other financial institutions, the renewal of loans or any form of modification of the terms of the loans already made and new loans before or at the time of maturity, where those loans are intended to finance the purchases of undertakings by or by associated persons. The prohibition should also apply to companies where they are subject to criminal or judicial proceedings or proceedings before the Securities Market Agency or the Competition Authority. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the legislation currently in force, which touches on the limitations on bank operations in relation to disputed tycoon loans, is sufficient and appropriate and therefore we do not favour the proposed solution. We believe that existing legislation does not allow for the possibility that liquidity funds for investment and enterprise development can be allocated to reprogramming disputed management loans with State guarantees. This part of the law is supervised by the Ministry of Finance, which may require data from banks on the state of exposure to transactions already concluded and also on transactions that will be renewed. This is also the main reason why we do not support the proposed changes in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Mrs Kamnareva - we are back. Yes, it's right for everyone to express their opinions, so we're in the National Assembly. We have received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: "In the opinion of the Government" [[Quote chunks]] : "All management buyouts are not disputed, but most of these purchases have been fully executed in accordance with the applicable legislation and with the consent of all shareholders or owners." Yes, I do, but that's why we're where we are, respected colleagues and colleagues! That's why we're where we are. And I don't want to remind you of yesterday's debate about, I think, the first law. The contents are intertwined - that's why we're where we are. Since the law governing the rights and duties of 1998 managers was the responsibility of this government, no one acted. The managers were working their way, the government was like those three monkeys: "I don't see," "I don't hear" and "I don't speak." And the story goes on. The following statement: "The infringements of corporate redemption legislation by administrations in the Republic of Slovenia identify the competent "institutions", institutions, I do not like this term, so I translate into "institutions" - "Competitive Office and Securities Market Agency operating in accordance with the applicable legislation." I've got that image again. It's just some image, it's not an insult, it's an image that depicts "I don't see," "I don't hear," "I don't speak," three monkeys. What did the Office for the Protection of Competition do? What did the Securities Markets Agency do if we considered a government bill or Trofennikov yesterday - because it does not matter whose it is because it is government - about the need to punish managers? You're with this, we've admitted something's wrong. Here we claim that there are institutions that must be identified, and if they have not found out, there was no sin. Yes, of course, because what is not prohibited is allowed. No one has done anything, but the government here is saying it's an institution, and at the same time the government is giving yesterday a new law that we're finally going to start overseeing managers. Why, then, did this law Mr Trofenik give the government, and if we have an Agency for the Protection of Competition, which has done nothing, nothing. Finally: the supervisory authorities in practice are not involved in such purchases and do not have the appropriate authority to make such purchases. Of course, please! Bogdan Barovic is the president of the supervisory board or the supervisory authority that I'm going to tell my friend, but no, Lucky Friend, my friend, that there's something to buy and that I'm going to be a little side by side with you if you're going to buy anything because you're not bound, buy it, you're going to give me something. That's right! And don't pretend it isn't! That is the case, and so did all the supervisory authorities when they had the first information, they forwarded it forward, and individuals bought and got rich. Such is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, near the agency, near the offices, near the judiciary or beyond the justice system. Nobody did anything. We've already got the three ape column again - I can't see, I can't hear, I'm not talking. That's right! You don't want to, you can say publicly that it's not true, but in your heart, in your head, you'll know it's not true. Now everything is wrong if someone gives a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia and this law eliminates the possibility of reprogramming disputed loans, for which even state guarantees are granted. It seems strange to us that someone who prohibits the granting of loans or guarantees to other financial institutions that prohibit the refinancing or renewal of loans or any form of modification of the terms and conditions of the loans already given and new, where those loans are intended to finance the purchases of undertakings by administrations and related persons. That seems strange to us now! That's not weird! This is finally one measure to be implemented either by the Office for the Protection of Competition or by the Agency for the Market in Securities - and they are not! Or the auditors, but they didn't; or the supervisory councils, who didn't do it. If I didn't say it, someone else should have done it, and it wasn't. And it is now proposed that we finally do this once and say that the banks referred to in Article 1 must not lend to buy-backs of the entire company or renew loans granted to buy-back companies or temporarily buy out shares of companies where the members of the management and control bodies have a majority share, and that they must not approve guarantees for loans to other financial institutions intended to buy back the entire company, if these matters are not "standing". This is perfectly normal for such a thing to be banned." Finally, once! At last! Once again, I respect the working government, but in the opinion of the Government, all managers' ransoms are not controversial. Yeah, then why are there 17 cases of disputed managers' buyouts today? Not all of them, but many of them. Why did the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Securities Markets Agency not act if we know of 17 cases in which none of these institutions acted? Why do these institutions still exist? That the supervisory authorities are not involved - I mean, this is a fairy tale. Ladies and gentlemen, for he that worketh, that worketh much, sinth. God forbid I should say that this government is now to blame, not at all! I said clearly and loudly yesterday and today, since 1998 there has been a law that would have allowed the ban on the crooks that have happened and that government has done nothing. Not even the last one that started all of this. To be very clear, the LDS government started with this and was in power for 10 or 12 years. And then this government and now this government. God forbid that I accuse this government; but that this government, which fights or shows that it fights against it, rejects the law amending and supplementing the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, which is very clear, which prohibits all the scoundrels - what is it then? Is it different? Is she more social and more honest or is she like the LDS, or is she like the SDS? What's she like? Yeah, I guess that's what she's like. There's never anyone - because I know it seems strange to you that this came from the right side now, which could have done something here, but it's not, you're right, but at least it came. And for this reason, I do not accuse this government and the Slovenian National Party does not accuse this government, accuses the previous two governments. But at least you had so much honesty, we were co-signers that we wrote and presented this law on the guarantee scheme. But let us all be so honest together that once again this pillar - I will use that word again, and then nothing more - three monkeys, when you can't see, you can't hear and you can't speak, let's take a nap. Because that is not how we can go - to be beautiful in front of people, how nice it is, how social we are, we go into structural changes, for the first time in the history of the country of the Republic of Slovenia, which are necessary and I will support them in this government, and we are doing exactly the opposite. Every "no" law amending and supplementing the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is quite contrary to the desire for structural changes. And it is quite contrary to the expression and expression used this year - that we want to restore this country, the social state, to help people in distress. We do not allow banks to be banned from lending disputed loans, but at the same time in this social state we do not ask ourselves that a person who has received a job for 7 months cannot survive. Slovenian, Janez Novak [[a typical example of the name and surname]] Can't get a 1,000-euro loan to buy food or pay the bills that he couldn't before, but he can't and can't get a loan! Now I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, do you object to the ban on lending banks in millions of euros for tycoons, managers, but at the same time this means that we will give them credits to continue to help those who have lost because they have been cheating and playing with shares, buying shares in the Balkans, buying shares in China, and they have been growing very much, and they have suddenly fallen. Now they're at a loss, 50 thousand, 100,000 euros, 500 thousand euros. And we're going to let the banks make up for the loss where they speculated. The man comes and asks for 700 euros of credit - there are seven in my municipality, and I can tell you the names and surnames if Musarov will not grab me by the door, who cannot get 700 euros of credit to pay the bills and buy bread. Oh, what about me? Is this a social state? This law prohibits banks from lending disputed loans, it is clearly written down. If you're going to say that this law is inappropriate, it means that you're going to allow the banks to re-credit their speculatives, once again, to buy shares in the Chinese, Balkan market as they went up and lost. People, and ordinary people, can't get 700 euros in credit, 500 euros, 400 euros, 300 euros in vacation! And we're a social and legal country! It doesn't mean that a ban allows someone else, it just means an honest relationship. Those who support the lumbarism - end these acts and let the banks lend and help these people! I know this is what this government wants and I know it will be able to do, but I just don't understand that we are making structural changes on the one hand, helping people, giving people credit, and leaving open credits and giving them credit for controversial purchases. But they are contentious; it is quite clear that they are controversial, absolutely clear that they are controversial - once again I emphasise. I don't understand this policy anymore, I don't know why I'm still in this national assembly, along with my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, I really don't know. We are talking about the social state, at the same time we are supporting banks to lend controversial loans, and we are not lending poor loans - this is not a social state for me, nor is it a legal state! I respect the Minister of Economy's statement yesterday, which he gave to him and I give him just right and respect him, now the state is not to blame for what happened in Mura, really not, it is John, Miha, Pepe and France's fault, and it takes six months to give back the money they stole back to Mura, if they don't go to sit. We have prisons in the Age of Prisons in Koper. This marriage is the one that prevents such acts as all those who instigated Mura! Exactly this law will for once prevent such acts. Now let the National Assembly and the Government be held accountable for the injustices that have taken place on the basis of "lompari", which are prohibited by this law, but you are rejecting this law again. Now tell me this logic, I don't understand it anymore. Let's adopt this law, stop this "lumparium" and call everyone to account since 1998 to return that money because they have it, they have it in boats, they have it in yachts, they have it in jaguars, they have it on weekends, and I don't know where! Let them bring him back if they don't go sit down! But let's accept this law, disable the disputed management loans to anyone from now on and help people get money because we know that we need to speed up consumption so that they can be "magari" with credits - I'm not the trigger for consumer credit, but, yes, they should get credit to encourage consumption; stimulating consumption will stimulate production. And this spiral will go up like this, not down. By rejecting this proposal, this spiral will go further down. And all honesty, I believe in this government, once again, I believe it will do something, I hope it will do something, but all that hope in this government that I support, Minister, Prime Minister Pahor, I support, I have said a hundred times. Let him hit the table and make one order! Then I will lose myself personally, like Bogdan Barovic, and I think that my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will, wish and respect for the existing government and for the existing prime minister. Then I really don't understand anything anymore. Thank you very much. We will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the delegation of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The objective of the Guarantee Scheme Act is to enable companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain liquid assets for various purposes. This was the basic purpose of this law. With the amendment of the law, which followed shortly after the adoption of the basic law, we also included cooperatives in the scheme and tried to limit the possibility of refinancing or renewal of so-called tycoon loans. According to the Slovenian People's Party Group, the issue of restrictions on the issue of guarantees and the operation of banks is still not or is not properly regulated. In our view, the Guarantee Scheme Act should not, under any circumstances, allow banks that obtain State guarantee, loan, refinancing or loan recovery if they are intended to finance corporate buy-backs by administrations or related companies, to all known Taiwanese credits. This activity can be carried out by banks, if they wish, on their own directing, without State guarantees. This is their right - not last! The government's adopted proposal allows exceptions to this prohibition, which we consider unacceptable. Unheard of and completely turned, the possibility is allowed for funds intended to develop businesses and solve the crisis to be earmarked for the reprogramming or approval of tycoon credits. And after all with the state guarantee. More absurd, you might say. Therefore, the funds intended to solve the crisis of the Slovenian economy and consequently, of course, the employees of the Slovenian economy may, under certain fulfilled conditions, three are intended to repay the managers' purchases. Today, you've probably read about it in the Journal of Business, and the press is also talking about it. I will read one paragraph: "For guarantees to the loans of the economy, however, the country has issued a total of EUR 310 million to banks so far, but our resources estimate that abuses will occur because most of the guarantee quotas will be used to restore existing loans and not new projects. It also shows that companies with lower ratings will be much more difficult to obtain loans with State guarantee." The title of the article is The Secret Consumption of State Guarantees. Respectable government and coalition! Do you not have a bad conscience that some way, under certain conditions, we may also be able to give funds to the tycoons? To borrow for the counter-hot topic that now occupys all these days that we will deliberately send Mura and Pomurje to the dump site of history and to the agony that has never occurred in this history. I've never accused anyone of an anomaly that we named a tycoon or a tycoon. All political parties, I have already said several times, should take responsibility for the formation of tycoons in their share. Obviously, not all of us have done everything together in the past to prevent these anomalies from changing legislation. But it is responsible for all of us to do everything and more in the future and even today that these anomalies will never occur again in the future. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this bill. Dear representatives of the coalition, I hope that it will sober more than 3,000 Pomurcs who will come to remind us in a short time that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, I am speaking in quotations, and only "some tycoons". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, who will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to all, including representatives of the Ministry, Secretary of State Helena Kamnar! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the essence of the current law on the guarantee scheme is a special anti-crisis guarantee scheme for companies whose primary purpose is to establish a medium-term credit market, which has practically died after the start of the crisis in the Slovenian financial and real sector. It is therefore extremely important that the implementation of the law helps us to create an important credit potential for businesses. Yesterday, for example, SIB Bank launched a third tender to obtain a state guarantee quota. We agree that this anti-crisis measure could be made more rapid, but we also estimate that it is not appropriate to discuss the various reasons for the delay in its application. The system is here, it's implemented and it's working. The scheme is available, only to be implemented as effectively as possible, while at the same time helping banks to obtain significant financial resources. This is also the main goal for us. However, we do not want the implementation of this important anti-crisis measure to be too burdensome with the so-called anti-Taqun fight. Today, we believe that most of the anomalies in Slovenia's privatisation transition cannot be fully rectified, as they were then incorporated into the privatisation system itself. Looking for an answer to why and how, this moment is better left to someone else, say researchers from different fields, and current policy has to deal with the problems that are here today and with the problems that will arise tomorrow. If we follow the wild and apparently increasingly destructive pits of fighting against the so-called tycoons, which were created by the proponents of the law at the time they were in power, we will, by excessively economically unjustifiable and legally contentious measures, primarily harm the banking system and then certainly the economy, but we will not eliminate most of the consequences of the anomalies already mentioned, because they are not objectively possible. We have already said several times in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and the last time the amendment of the Public Finance Act was discussed, when there was also a controversy about the scope of the so-called anti-Tacunkun clause, that we support the provision of public funds by prohibiting the conclusion or renewal of loans or guarantee transactions that are intended for the purchases of managers and have been carried out without the necessary permission or other irregularities. For this reason, we also support the introduction of a procedure against such persons, individuals and undertakings by the competent authorities. At the same time, we reiterate our opinion, regardless of the fact that such anti-Taikun provisions will most likely be applied in Slovenia only in two or three insolvent and all known cases. Therefore, it would certainly be better for this issue to be settled in a special law, rather than burdening the legal texts now with three or four laws. Also because of the important, necessary intervention of the State in the implementation of the Bank's independent business policy, which requires appropriate legal, correct, clear and unambiguous solutions. We do not support the proposed tightening of the restrictions on the issue of guarantees and on the operation of banks in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as we believe that the current regulation of the restrictions referred to in Articles 8 and 13a is appropriate, legally indisputable and that the interference with the business policy of banks is still within reasonable limits or that this interference will not have a significant impact on the operation of banks while ensuring the exercise of the necessary public interest. However, we cannot claim all of this to be a proposed solution that is ahead of us and does not guarantee all of this. If we put out the next detail. Subject to the explicit provision that banks of the Ministry of Finance are required to provide data from transactions already concluded, it is necessary to reiterate the information already heard in this Chamber that almost a thousand managers' acquisitions and purchases have been carried out in the past 15 years and that most of them are not wrong. This is therefore a number of normal credit relations held by banks, and their absolute limitation in these relations would certainly be completely unreasonable and harmful for the economy. Furthermore, it should be stressed that there is no way we can throw all the manager’s purchases or acquisitions into the same basket. A large majority of them were carried out legally correctly and in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. However, if, of course, someone has information that it has not been so in specific cases, of course, the competent authorities should be informed accordingly and the measure should be taken. In the rule of law, we can't, because of some individual excesses, punish everything and everything through. At the same time, it is a large amount of information that banks should provide to the Ministry of Finance at its request, and it is obvious that the applicants are deliberately missing a provision under which the Ministry of Finance is obliged to deal with such data in accordance with the Banking Act. Why is he going? Or perhaps it will be easier for the information that represents bank secrecy to come to the public because it will then be manipulated and damaged by both banks and its commissioners, that is certainly not our goal. It is clear to all that banking secrecy is one of the most important elements of trust in the banking system and therefore no one in a legally regulated and economically stable country should play. The former Governor of Banka Slovenije has repeatedly stated that money and capital are shy and sensitive birds, and in our position we add that both the financial and banking systems must primarily be a stable, legal, safe and reliable nest for both birds mentioned above. Finally, let me say that we see no reason in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for the proposed tightening of the restrictions on the issue of guarantees and on the operation of banks, so we will vote against the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State. The Group of the Social Democrats will not support further consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Scheme Act. The proposed amendment does not propose any new solution that would not have been addressed by the adoption of the Guarantee Scheme Act by now. The law itself has not yet been fully revived, we do not yet have relevant, feedback information on the impact of the guarantee scheme on the reduction of the so-called "credit crunch" and how the banks have also adopted a way of awarding guarantee lines in the context of auctions. We already have the proposed amendments which, in our view, would make the guarantee scheme actually useless. Indeed, the current solution in the existing law seems appropriate to limit the allocation and reprogramming of credits that have been or will be allocated to the purchase of company shares by members of management and the transferred persons. We are also assessing that it is necessary to restrict or prevent lending to those who wish to illegally take over companies or parts thereof. It has been decided that credit should not be granted to those who do not have permission to take over, to those against whom proceedings are pending, to take over infringements in accordance with our legislation, or to whether a concentration assessment procedure is in place due to non-compliance with the rules of competition in accordance with the law - to avoid quoting the whole article - seems to us to be a large enough limit element that clearly informs banks who are not to be credited. Not by credit means which are also secured by the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, as this is not allowed. This is recorded in the present Article 8 which the opposition also wants to amend slightly - this is to read this part - if the loan is intended to buy back companies or their shares or to repay existing loans hired for these purposes. Recruitment of the loan means actually reprogramming the loan. It's about paying for it and getting some more comfortable ones, so of course this change is pointless. And such credit may not be granted or reprogrammed by other resources held by the bank if the bank is included in the guarantee scheme. And that's Article 13.a. Such restrictions are recorded, including in other financial laws, which seek to encourage banks through their own regulation to credit the real sector for development and liquidity. It is also pointless to change certain conditions in the guarantee scheme after a good two-month period when we do not yet have all the information, what is actually going on with this guarantee scheme and whether and to what extent the objectives that we have defined in the explanation of the Guarantee Scheme Act in the Republic of Slovenia have actually been achieved. So far, three auctions have been made for the guarantee scheme and 310 million guarantees have been spent, that is a good quarter. On this basis, however, or banks will grant a good EUR 880 million. So the state guarantee is around 35%, we predicted up to 80% in the law. This is probably good from the point of view, because in this way we have received more credit than we anticipated at the time of the adoption of the law, and this will probably also be reflected in the recovery of the economy. However, it is poor that we do not have data on how these funds are allocated to the economic operators of grades A, B and C. It is true that we have somehow distributed the guarantee quota by law for the purpose of lending. Or whether this scheme is being implemented or not. If we remember a few months ago when we adopted the guarantee scheme, we added to the beneficiaries the granting of credits protected for the guarantee scheme also by companies with credit rating class C, which was not foreseen in the first last proposal. At that time, we estimated that this group of companies that were good up to yesterday could also have great companies, have a good business programme, but the current economic and financial situation actually affected them the most and therefore needs such assistance. On the contrary, the signals from the real sector are that this measure is now being used mainly by good companies with A rating class, possibly B, and part of the funding is also intended to reprogram certain loans, business loans and development loans. I wonder if that's true. We don't know that now. It is likely that it is too soon to make such a claim if we follow the message from today's daily press when the authors of the article identify, on the basis of the data from the banks, that we have not actually concluded any credit agreements yet and thus provided the economy with long-term and financial resources. This is certainly one of the most important issues in the implementation of the guarantee scheme. We propose that the Ministry of Finance, together with the SID Bank, and possibly others, analyse the granting of credits on the basis of a guarantee scheme and review whether the objectives are being met. To the extent not, to supplement the rules or to amend the law, this guarantee scheme will be even more operational. Even for companies with a lower rating class, which are still good and successful and have a good production programme and also a stable market. In particular, because by adopting the Guarantee Scheme Act, we assumed that the credit crunch would somehow weaken. The promise was also that the law would change as long as it was found that the system was not functioning well. The changes aimed at making the guarantee scheme work even better will also be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The bill proposed by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Member, Jozet Tank, therefore does not bring about any new improvements, but raises questions that we have rejected with sufficient weight in adopting the law. At the time of the re-imposed proposal, the new proposal does not justify why such a solution should be adopted. The Group of Social Democrats therefore considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u84	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Today we have been talking about the guarantee scheme law in the National Assembly for the fourth time. By the end of March, when we first talked about him, it was about three months too late. The so-called credit crunch, which is the main reason for the economic crisis, not only in our country, but also more broadly, has not yet given way to Slovenia. In the view of the applicants, individual areas of law, in particular the issue of restrictions on the issue of guarantees and restrictions on the operation of banks, are still not adequately regulated or are in full conflict with the objective of the adopted amendment to the Guarantee Scheme Act. The priority task of banks strengthened by the entry into the guarantee scheme must primarily be credit activity towards companies that need funds to invest in development projects and assets, rather than financing such or other tycoon stories. The amendment was adopted on the Committee on Finance when the amendment of the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of May was considered this year, which prohibited so-called Taiwanese loans with State guarantees. The ruling coalition then tabled and adopted, in the final phase of the legislative procedure, an amendment that put on the head a complete ban on the granting of all types of tycoon loans, allowing for the possibility of almost unlimited lending of these loans, with State guarantee. The main solution to the amendment of the law that we have before us today is thus to prohibit the granting of loans and guarantees to other financial institutions, the refinancing or renewal of loans, or any form of modification of the terms of the loans already given and new loans, before success or maturity, where those loans are intended to finance the redemptions of undertakings by administrations and related persons. The prohibition also applies to companies where they are subject to criminal proceedings or proceedings against the guardian of competition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that Slovenia would not go into recession this year if the Government made the necessary decisions in a timely manner and, of course, the release of the credit crunch is essential. We have always warned about this, we have tabled numerous proposals and laws that have been rejected by all in a row. Instead, we have witnessed, during the most critical period, the extension of Taiwan's credits by the largest state bank and the "reality show", which individual members of the government have presented to the Slovenian public about who is the greater fighter against the tycoons and which of the new bank directors is politically set up and which is not. The government has dealt with itself and with the personnel it has set up politically, and some of its top representatives have been so shameless that they have criticized those acts of others who have secretly assisted them themselves. Rather than allowing banks to obtain clear government guarantees and release access to high-quality financial resources to companies that had programmes, even our largest state bank was caught up in a staff spasm and was almost head-on due to conflicts in the ruling coalition, thus also hampering its normal functioning. All of this will have long-term negative and harmful consequences for both the country and its citizens. On the other hand, because of the Government's slow decisions in bankruptcy, it appears that a number of Slovenian companies that had the programmes provided for production did not have liquid assets to finance it. We're recording a record incursion of economic activity. In a very short period of time, there has been a record increase in the number of unemployed. In a few months, the number of the unemployed will obviously double, as we are rapidly approaching the number of 100,000 people who are unemployed. These conditions, which would have to be used for economic and social restructuring, will obviously be delayed and we will witness a further decline in activity, despite a trend towards a different direction in some European Union countries. On the other hand, the ruling coalition has used the good purpose of the law to accelerate economic activity to adopt an amendment that, not only to allow the reprogramming of tycoon loans, allows for reprogramming even with the State guarantee. To prevent this, we have been talking about this law for the fourth time today. According to the government, not all Thai takeovers are illegal. We are not talking about it, we are not talking about legality or illegality, we are talking about morally unacceptable, unethical, unsanitary and contrary to national interests, so that, during the period when programmes need to be financed to increase economic activity, these so-called management loans can be serviced as a matter of priority. But where would they have come if they had followed the government's position and had these loans, or these guarantees, as the Government says, they could even approve of the acquisitions that are illegal. Wrong world! Slovenia was one of the few European Union countries that was forecasted by the European Union for positive economic growth this year, at a minimum but positive rate of 0.6% per annum. In recent years, Slovenia has recorded on average more than 3% higher economic growth than the European Union average. Therefore, it would be reasonable to expect that this growth will now decrease at least as slowly as is the case with the average. That didn't happen. For the past six months, we have witnessed a free fall due to the inadequate and ineffective part of the government; it sounds absurd, but it is true. More than our government's decision, turning in a positive direction is conditional on decisions by governments in other European Union countries. As an example, only measures taken in some countries in a timely manner have had a positive impetus to individual economic activities, such as the automotive industry, which has consequently had a positive boost to the automotive industry in Slovenia, to all those associated with this industry, and these measures have been taken in Germany, France and the other countries of the European Union. In view of the recent forecasts made by individual Member States of the European Union, it is also realistic that the decisions made by the governments of individual European Union countries will help to bring Slovenia out of the crisis slowly, but the price paid by the Slovenians due to inadequate and slow decisions will be very high. The European Union forecast of 0.6% of economic growth this year was based on the sub-menu that the new Slovenian Government will take measures to accelerate economic activity in a timely manner. Since these were not available, the whole positive effect of the former government faded in a few months. From the budget surplus at the end of 2007 and 2008, we are witnessing in a few months almost 2 billion budget deficits, which are joined by a number of other SID Bank loans or guarantees, the Slovenian Compensation Society and so on. Instead of focusing all activities on rapid decision-making, which would accelerate economic growth and increase economic liquidity, the ruling coalition, in the wake of the amendment of the Guarantee Scheme Act, which extended the law to cooperatives, has used the amendment, which not only allows for the extension of Taiwanese loans, to enable even state guarantees for them. Otherwise, the conduct of the rulers is twofold. The same politicians who criticised the extension of credits registered at the addresses of postal collectors were co-owners of these mailboxes, which were granted the most rapid approval of multimillion euro loans by the largest state bank without adequate insurance. On the other hand, one of the biggest Slovenian companies in December, when the credit crunch was the worst, received over 10 million loans in one week to finance the company's purchase. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we want to prevent such cases, which is why we have before us the amendment to the Guarantee Scheme Act, which we support in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The economy is not satisfied that the measures taken by the State to recover the economy are sufficient and sufficiently effective. Hope for better times slowly and persistently sighs, for there is no spot for improvement. However, all the indicators point only to the deterioration so that we can become one of the most economically affected countries. We must have learned something from the financial crisis because it has shown us weaknesses where we are most vulnerable. The economy is facing a low added value to the export worker, where, according to the price, the competition is increasing, and we also have expensive and inefficient public administration. It is high time that we stopped deceiving the public sector, that we do not need to think about worse times, which is an integral part of a failed economy, which limits resources for the public sector as well. More than two-thirds of the economy is struggling with inequity, which has brought further problems in development, payment non-discipline and VAT is pushing the economy into a standstill situation, reducing the orders of companies operating in foreign markets has also decreased by 50%. Banks are increasingly cautious, which is in some ways also to understand, as experience from the past is sufficiently enlightened and clear. The guarantee scheme and guarantees have no desired effect. Credit it more and more difficult to get, but if you get it, it's much more expensive because the risks to banks are even higher. It is obvious that red tape cannot prevent old practices, since slowing down in obtaining development and investment support and preparing investment plans does not give hope for near improvement. The technological breakthrough has only been successful for individual companies, but not thanks to the previous government or the current government, this is only due to capable individuals who can be counted on one hand and not praised in the public. I support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Scheme Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It would be interesting if you were asked by Members or someone and asked us a unique answer to the question: "Are you in favour of preventing lending or bailing out other financial institutions? Are you in favour of refinance and renewing loans or are you in favour of changing all the forms of terms of the loans already given and new, if these loans are intended to buy businesses from the administrations and related persons?" I wonder how we could answer with a "no" or a "yes" and what we would justify that. In fact, the Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is an anti-crisis law that we adopted this year in order to mitigate its effects during the economic and financial crisis, or to ease the credit crunch that arose in this situation, and to make it easier for economic operators established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain the liquidity needed to finance investments and convertible assets. I believe that we all agree that the loans that individuals, members of the corporate buy-back boards, are not the subject of a financial and economic crisis, but rather the rescue of individuals who, in their enthusiasm after gaining the greatest possible wealth and impact on the economic and political sphere, have been "planned". I see no reason for such loans to be financed from the taxpayer's money. Of course, I don't mind if the individual bank approves such loans, but under conditions that will ensure payment of the debt from their own resources. There are no appropriate solutions in the law in force, as stated, concerning restrictions on the issue of guarantees and restrictions on the operation of banks. The priority of the banks entering this scheme is that their credit activity is focused solely on lending to the company they need to invest in investments, development projects and assets. In short, the Guarantee Scheme Act was created by the crisis, financial and economic, and in such circumstances measures are therefore necessary to maintain economic operators in this crisis situation or to slowly turn their growth trend upwards. In the situation in which we are, in our view, it is necessary to completely eliminate the possibility of reprogramming or approving disputed, so-called, managers' loans intended to finance the redemption of businesses by administrations or related persons. Especially with State guarantees, it's money from taxpayers. With the support of the majority of Members of the National Assembly, we will achieve that the Guarantee Scheme Act can be brought to life and function in its core function. I'll back the bill myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, in a way necessary change, will prevent the reprogramming of the disputed loans and if we do not do so, respected, then the black mark will fall back on this country. We'll legalise economic crime. We need to rent this and a country that actually supports this situation with additional errors; that is, we did not find ourselves in this state by accident, even because of such acts - but we do not see the problem of our own company, such as Mure, when the state does not want and does not want to cut down with expertise and with that right approach to solve the business that bears the brand of Slovenia around the world; if we talk about such a country, then there will be more justification for discontent in the streets. The financial crisis is actually due to the lending of these loans. And these loans are being reprogrammed today. This law will prevent this if we have sufficient political will. I would remind you that on the day we have 200 people who lose their jobs, we have almost 100,000 unemployed. We have 20 billion Euros of donated money for tycoon purchases, we have 35 billion Euros of foreign debt of the country, which is larger than the external debt of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We give our pensioners for water and bread, and we give young people drugs for good dreams. This is this country. Every day hundreds of new unemployed people are not interested in the state. And the government should be dealing with this problem, including a reference to the crisis headquarters, as they like to say in the government. There's no one here today. He doesn't want to respond to these findings that we're making, we're arguing. I don't know why there's none of the government's representatives. Maybe today should be the Prime Minister. In short, if such measures are meant to successfully prevent a crisis period, then of course I can say that this is a dilettarian approach. There's something else I'd like to point out. We have more or less social donations in the first, second and third packages, and it is the same as helping people in distress. Also to help businesses to better fit their expectations for better times. It is not right, however, that we see only the financing of the crime in this way. It does not invest in new knowledge, in new added value, in new jobs. And I think it's the mistake of this government. Such moves will only deepen this crisis. If today, of course, there is not enough political will to say no to this economic crime, then I can say with certainty that there is a mafia in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased that this information has been made available to the banks to a large extent and that you are assessing that this has been successful. I want this to be successful, too, to be seen in the economy, in order to truly benefit this guarantee scheme from small craftsmen. Those who continue to work, invest, I can say, most or all of their personal savings and thus guarantee the continued operation of their businesses and, of course, continue to work with this. As I see it, the biggest talk is about big companies, big needs, these big customers of this financial assistance. I'm in favour of restricting this matter, but with these so-called tycoon buyouts. But I'm a little skeptical about this, which, of course, concerns me, what about those workers, those employees behind those so-called tycoons. Above all, I would like to take this direction so that I do not talk every day with craftsmen, entrepreneurs who want to get credit, who want to reprogram when they have succeeded, and then again so many bureaucratic obstacles, so many new proofs about it, because we all wrote nicely how it would have been, how it would have been, but in particular, that the government would have made its own authority pressure on those who would have triggered this new funding for these companies. I am in a dilemma, but I will stand on this side that this law must be supported and the matter concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. As has been said several times today, I will not support the proposed amendment. In fact, in all this matter that we are talking about, about tycoon loans, about loans of this kind and other kind, in one of the debates, too, in the previous session, I said that I do not remember talking about such loans in the past, but not for so long, because I am not so old as to remember this work from the past good 17 years. However, let me say, when I have somehow reviewed or in the context of all the documentation that is available to us in the National Assembly, when I have seen when these credits that are being discussed today are being given, I must say that this is not the fault of this government, for which there are somehow no true words found, especially if one of the fellow opposition's colleagues estimates that what she might have done has been decided by this government is not good, it is bad. All credits, most of them or almost all of them, which were approved at the time, I expect in good faith, with good investment by the state banks, are now assessed as the worst, as Taiwanese. The words I am listening to here today are such that I hardly want to repeat them. I'm kind of embarrassed that since we were elected by citizens and citizens, we're talking from below the level, I'd almost say. However, I am concerned about one thing, which concerns me mainly in the framework of the guarantee scheme, that if we continue to do so, then obviously we will be able to determine, it is obvious that we will possibly approve the renewal of credits to those who will be named, for example, Anton or otherwise, perhaps some other name will not be appropriate. I'm so afraid we're going from session to session longer. I don't know if the name on the letter "A" would be okay if the letter "B" were to be a disaster and another letter would be worse. I am afraid that this is the case, as some of the amendments proposed are going in this direction. We forget, however, that if the company comes into a crisis situation, that perhaps even someone who is the CEO of the company, along with the administration, with the management, perhaps some Slovenian companies with their bravery, courageous decisions even saved at a given time and therefore has a certain number of people working as well. When I listen to problems related to the textile industry, when I read various opinions today, I am also aware of the problems of the textile industry in the White landscape. I also face the management of companies, such as Betty, where a few people have lost their jobs. Like Comet, this company is interesting because the textile industry has 183 people in production and only 8 in direct. Nevertheless, I also wanted to look at the information, whether this is true for Pomurje, even for the company whose clothes I wear, i.e. for Mura. I have noticed that this ratio is not so, up to 10% of people are employed in directing, so to speak, and much in manufacturing. Here, somehow, this relationship is falling apart, and it is likely that a decision will have to be taken here. Any decision that causes possible unemployment of people is difficult, but I believe that sewing will certainly not be without work, because we will still need clothes. And also when lending to businesses - I want to return to this guarantee scheme - I think it is wrong to throw away now all those companies that have bought back companies that have been in trouble that have courageously embarked on rationalisations of companies - may have been sometimes unattractive, unpleasant, too harsh, not fair enough, immoral, as someone said, unacceptable, unethical, but these companies are now working on. And since credits have been in the past, including those you call "Tykunic", of some kind, probably also possible agreement or perhaps not all was known to the then government, therefore I think it is wrong to think now that somehow but priori these credits should not be renewed. The most interesting information, however, is that these credits are well-serviced back. What do I mean by that? It's about someone paying off a loan in accordance with a credit agreement, i.e. the principal, the meals, the interest, then I don't see any problem here. And I don't know why it's necessary to act the way I hear it today. However, it is true that I would also like to see this credit crunch in place to the extent that banks also decide to serve and extend loans to businesses, lenders, B and C credit classes. In fact, I know from experience that it is to give credit to a company with a rating A poem. There's almost no risk to the bank, not to the state. Therefore, I believe that in this direction, and I believe that banks in Slovenia will also decide to take a slightly higher risk in this area of crediting grades B and C. Of course, reservations will also be required in the balance sheet, but without risk, without decisions, even in this direction. Nevertheless, in some of today's debates, it is true. Let us not forget that we are all here together on the same wagon, that we will all have to go through this crisis together, and that we will also have to think that when we talk about the managers' redemptions of businesses, the Taiwanese credits and so on, that we will not accidentally bring our managers, successful managers, to the fact that they will no longer be making decisions and managers in Slovenia, in our companies, because we will not be here, even in the National Assembly, those who may not have worked in the economy for even a few minutes, but today or perhaps not for 10 years, but today they were highly respected experts. I don't think that's right. It's not right. Anyone who has ever had the opportunity to work with the economy in any way in his life should also be on the side when the economy is not easy, I am sure, today will also discuss in good faith that he wants what is good, but not only that he agrees with the support of those who may be in his territory, suit him or assist him in his territory, or that he will only be liked by his constituents. But I think it's really unfair, unacceptable, unethical and unsanitary. I will not support such a proposal alone, but I will certainly not support any such proposal that will not discriminate in any way against Slovenia or Slovenia, nor in the area of lending or renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Vizjak spoke as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I appreciated the need to speak and explain the law, because some of the people who commented did not read it at all and do not know it because they talk about everything else, but not the law. They're talking about amendments that aren't even there because it's the first reading. True, if, perhaps because of lack of time, some people advertise and speak here. By the way, some perform even two functions, and they still have a long way to go, as did the previously mentioned esteemed Mrs Brunskole, who has probably come and experienced some inner conviction that she must also talk about it. So, the purpose of the law is not to create some valuable judgment on so-called tycoon loans, loans for management acquisitions. So it doesn't go into whether it's bad or good, whether it's outrageous or it has to be stopped, prevented, and so on, not at all. This amendment deals with the government's action and would therefore be difficult to apply in the past, because the guarantee scheme law had not been and was not needed in the past. The guarantee scheme was established with one purpose, namely to release the credit crunch that occurred with the financial and economic crisis. And, of course, because financial institutions have become extremely cautious in this crisis, they have not lent money either to the economy or to the economy. Therefore, most European Union countries have estimated that these banks must in some way turn their backs on guarantees in order to take these risks in part and partly at the burden of the country. So this is a new crisis-related measure. And the opinion of the applicants is that in such times as we are witnessing to them, that is, when the credit activity of the banks is weak, when we have a so-called credit crunch and when we help these banks to overcome the credit crunch with state aid, that the priority of this state aid is, of course, to service economic activity, turnover, new investments and so on, not other activities of the banks. Therefore, those banks which are and are strengthened by this State aid should not do what the State currently considers to be, in fact, harmful to the financing of economic activity. And this is the basic intention of this bill. However, once again and again, I underline this fact that, due to the late arrival of this measure, the implementation of this measure has, in practice, faded away from the very important initial ambition of this measure. In fact, if companies were still in a dilemma at the beginning of this year or at the end of last year, whether to invest in some new development projects or to move forward and needed money, fresh money or a reprogramme of existing money, i.e. for development projects, they were "scagala" by May, June, and they had decided long ago not to go there because they had no money to support the country. Therefore, this late-implementation guarantee scheme has in fact prevented it from being implemented to a greater extent and in fact for the purpose for which it is intended. Because she was late, she recognized a lot of people. Many are no longer concerned with how to develop, but with how to survive. Again, if we are talking about whether to help businesses survive, it is better for me to forget that state aid would allow, in part, for the purposes of equity restructuring of companies without value judgements. The Act on takeovers and takeover legislation was intended to regulate this procedure in the light of even small shareholders, so that those who take over the company to take it in an corrective manner, with all information to small shareholders. There's nothing wrong with that. They're taking over the law, it's got to be. This is what the European Union's takeover directives are talking about, and there is no judgment of value here that there is anything wrong with it. It's not wrong. However, it is wrong to cooperate and reprogram with State aid, which the Guarantee Scheme Law represents, with the State aid of the strengthened banks, or even to lend new loans for these purposes, and this is wrong, why? Since the priority of State aid is the second priority of State aid and the primary purpose of state aid is to ensure greater business activity, to provide turnover, investment capital, development capital to businesses, that is to say. Mixing all things here, of course, then whoever possibly follows loses the sense of what is proposed. In the Guarantee Scheme Act, of course, doors are open to reprogramme credits for managers' purchases and acquisitions, if there is no procedure in progress before the competent supervisory institutions or if such acquisition has been carried out in contravention of the takeover legislation. In all other cases, banks may allocate money, banks strengthened by this state aid, banks participating in the guarantee scheme may spend money on managers' buy-ins. We think this is wrong and this is the basic content and basic, I would say, the objective of this proposal. We also share our views with a number of proposals or with a number of coalition types, which you have initially attached to the government, because the government has originally proposed this. At first the government stood in this position until the bankers looked at it and said, the government if you do this, the guarantee scheme law will not, will not apply, we will not participate in this scheme, because we all have these loans and we all want to reprogram it because we need to reprogram because those takers who have done this have fallen into the crisis cannot return the annuity. That's the whole point. It's a big problem. I am going back to implementing this law, but it is never in this House, honourable Members, that we will know how many loans from this guarantee sum are actually currently earmarked for managers' purchases and reprogrammes only because the banks will never communicate these data to us, we have found on the Commission for Public Finance Control, never. So we're adopting legislation that allows banks to do credit, and banks aren't going to report anything to us. Through the Commission on Public Finance Control, we have sent a wide-ranging questionnaire to the two commercial banks in majority state ownership to report on the details of the cumulative nature, I am not talking about the relationship of the bank specifically to the company, we have also asked about it, but we are not now talking about these issues, I am talking about the cumulative issues of both banks connected with the NBA and the LBO. The answer is that, according to the legislation and confidentiality of the bank data, this will not be communicated to us, that is, the end. Parliamentary Supervisory Institute! And it is likely then clear to everyone that, honourable Members, we will never know where the money that we are going here by law is actually allowing these same banks. This is followed by a proposal for a law to make certain things that are not a priority but simply a prohibition. It's the only way to stop it. I fear that the law on the guarantee scheme and the State aid resulting from this law will be used for anything but to promote economic activity. Eurostat statistics published days ago report that Slovenia is one of those countries that records the worst statistics on economic growth and on the scale of the subsystems of this economic growth, industrial production, service activity. Negative 9% is growth or 9% of GDP decline we suffered when we compare the first quarter of this year with the first quarter of last year. Do you know anyone who's fallen more than us? Some Baltic states, two in L, Slovakia, and then we. And we are talking about our biggest partners in the crisis and that this is why we are in the crisis. True, but all our biggest trading partners have a lower fall than ours here, which is leading, or I apologize, we have a higher fall than all other countries, those that are our most loyal trading partners. What's next? What follows is that we really got in a bad way with the devil and activated measures to prevent that from happening. If we follow some of the findings already on the implementation of the guarantee scheme so far, most of these granted loans are used to reprogram existing loans, so that, exceptionally, those used for some development are rare for some new value and create something new. Most are patching up old problems and problems. If management buyouts are included among these old problems and problems, state money will be spent in a very, very unwise way. Which, of course, won't be new. Similar measures have already been taken by this government. There's a chance we can fix something else that can fix that. This is the basic intention of this marriage. With that, despite being very late, we will only accept something that we think is right. If we wanted to apply this in any way in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would probably have gone the other way, which was open about a month ago. Remember, we also had signatures for this marriage. I think it is more right that we have decided, as we have decided to allow this scheme to take place and to try again in Parliament to obtain a decision on the prohibition of the reprogram or the granting of loans for the ownership consolidation of managers' purchases by those banks receiving state aid under this guarantee scheme. That is why, of course, I am asking for the support of this law and the follow-up procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole spoke for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Let me just tell my colleague from Posavje and I believe he knows. I've found there's only six years between us. Let me remind you that at one of the previous meetings, there was another way we could have talked about the amendments. With respect to the guarantee scheme, I knew what I was talking about, because I was told that somehow, colleague Brunskole doesn't know what she's talking about -- I think I know very well what I'm talking about. And I think that even with regard to the whole discussion concerning the tycoons, concerning another matter, I am very sorry that I do not think that we have been together with my colleague, and a few colleagues from your parliamentary group have also been at the presentation of Knowledge Sorry, when I asked the Director of Instrumentation Technology of Mr Roko Uršič myself, how long has he been in the company, when he talked about the importance of first self-confidence and then trust among all partners, I asked him how long the results of networking and successful business with them have been demonstrated. He said it was first five to seven years, and in the last year or two, there were concrete networking results. And here I would like to tell Mr Visiak that also his activities as then Minister of Economy, to some extent, some good results are certainly showing now. But surely now is not the best time. Therefore, all good indicators may not be able to show up to the extent possible at a time when not only in Slovenia, but in the world, would not be a global financial crisis at all. Say, "Now, in these six months, everything has collapsed." If they've built a good foundation before, I believe it can't get to the worst possible point in six or nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Discussion as a motioner, Mr Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. No one in the National Assembly has ever said that everything has collapsed in the last six months. Indeed, it is simply not possible to undermine everything that has been done with common powers in this country over a period of several decades. However, at this time of crisis in Europe and Slovenia, I think, before that in the world, we could be able to deal more effectively with this crisis and there could be no consequences such as these. And certainly, a measure such as the Guarantee Scheme Act is one of those very important, key measures that could still help to ensure that the crisis, in particular in the financial market and in the area of capital accessibility, would not be so much known to businesses if this measure were quickly and effectively adopted. As a result of the slow adoption of this measure, economic activity has also become somewhat or less active, resulting in a host of other social problems facing Slovenia. Once again, I would like to stress that the law is good, but its implementation in nature is dramatically recognised. And I'm asking a rhetorical question: in this country is only the opposition saying this? Is this not the common conclusion of all economic operators, which, last but not least, was hosted by the Prime Minister at the last economic summit? And if you're some people who don't want to hear it before you shut your ears, it's probably not just your problem, it's this country's problem. And you will never and never be able to break in half a year what has been done in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the word - he is absent. Mr. Anton Urh - no, he won't discuss it. Mr. Vito Rozej, no. Miroslav Clown - no. Mr. Barovich, no. Mr. Janez Fish - no. Mr. Franci Kek - no. Anton Kampush - no. Mag. Borut Saiovic - no. Breda Pecan; here you are, Mrs. Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and good afternoon! This law should, despite the fact that now, as we have heard before today, it is already the fourth time under consideration, twice at the request of the opposition, twice as a basic proposal and twice as a subsequent change on the initiative of the Government or on the proposal of the Government. It has to be said that some of the effects are already visible, even in the newspapers we have read that they have begun to function gradually. There were three tenders, the last was just yesterday, distributed or obtained 310 million euro guarantees, which actually amounts to 881 million and 600 000 euro credit potential. Therefore, there is no doubt that the interest of the banks exists, despite the fact that the State's risk of auctioning is actually decreasing. In the first tender was 40%, in the second 35% and in the third 33% of the country's risk, the remaining risk was taken by the supply banks and among them UniCredit, Bank Koper, Banka, Banka, Land Banka, Gorenska banka, Nova Ljubljanska banka, Raiffeisen Banka; that is, banks that actually mean something in Slovenia. We will now be able to monitor, and hopefully, the users of these loans, or these guarantees, in order to know how these 881 million euros will be spent. Of course, we cannot expect the banks to report to us what is enshrined in the Guarantee Scheme Act, namely that it is forbidden to grant loans for the renewal of loans for illegal or controversially concluded management purchases. Thus, where the Securities Market Agency or where it 'disputes' such acquisitions and similar things. We know, also practically almost the name and surname could tell us where credit lines were opened due to such controversial acquisitions. And one example, I'm going to say under the terms "seizures" as collateral of stock deposits, we've already experienced. So we can't talk about where the most drastic violations of the takeover legislation have arisen, where we work in our countries stupid, and we don't prevent or even repair it. However, the fact is that we are interfering with autonomy and in particular with the protection of the data of the bank's committees, even though we are the highest legislative body in this country, that we are worthy of all respect, but we cannot afford it. Some in the National Assembly feel that because they have a function, they are allowed everything under the bright sun. No, it's not allowed. We can't afford to ask banks to give them information they're not allowed by the Banks Act to give them. And if anyone thinks that a law can overrun the constitutionally guaranteed rights of bank commissioners, then we can't do that. And I don't think this is about protecting some of these or other partners of this current government, because this is the protection of all those who have the right to protect information about their banking business transactions with individual banks. And that's exactly what I'd like to say to talk about if someone else led the government today to make it much better or to make it better at all - of course I can't assert it or defend it. It's crazy to say this in a situation where we had a balloon of economic growth like this by November last year, and then the recession came and this balloon broke with a small needle, and it went "in the rough", I'd say to the Primors. Because unnatural, wild, wild growth was built mainly on the indebtedness of the country, the economic sector and the population led to such inflatable growth. [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, the knowledge of harvesting should be watched, heard for the sake of being able to hear a number of interesting truths; we could also now talk about nanotherapists. It's about nano-models who pretend I don't say what's in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to amend the guarantee scheme law from this very point of view, because we would like to prevent the granting of credits and, firstly, the actual acquisitions of companies by Taiwan. The objective of the Guarantee Scheme Act, which was adopted at the end of March 2009, made it easier for companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain liquid assets to finance investment and operating assets. The aim of the law is therefore to promote economic activity, with which the Slovenian economy would emerge as soon as possible from the spasms that caused the global financial crisis. However, we must note that this law should already be adopted in November 2008, as we have actually proposed and pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We must be aware that many companies have been bankrupt during this period precisely from this point of view because they were no longer liquid. The state threw this law before it reached the light in March of this year. With this novelty, we just want to prevent those people who have actually acquired property in this country from being given credits in the wrong way. The government is still lending Taiwanese loans instead of forcing these companies to disinvest property in a controversial manner. Banks are still rigid to medium-sized and micro-enterprises. Unfortunately, these companies still cannot obtain credit. However, they receive credits from such companies, as mentioned earlier, by Taiwanese companies, without any basis. We are aware that there are so many and so many employees in these companies, but it is not a solution to throwing money into an empty bag. These companies need to be disinvested, that's the solution. Credits are still only given to the chosen ones. I can tell you, on Friday, one company received 4 million loans via the SID Bank. And believe me, this company got unjustifiablely. I hope you'll find 4 million euros of money for Mura, too, in order to save her. You need to know, if the Wall goes down, then it's like the atomic bomb went down from Lendava to Maribor, there's no life. This must be clearly understood by the State. The Guarantee Scheme Act should be for companies with a clear vision, a reprogramming programme. These companies must receive these funds for reprogramming, not in fact money to buy again and end up pawning, but not with their own assets, for the purchase of a company or the liquidity of an undertaking. The objective of the guarantee scheme must be a good programme for businesses, but not for the provision of Taiwanese credits, because if we do not help companies A, B, absolutely also C, who have a clear vision, a good programme, then I see no reason why they get companies that have gone into big trouble in the same way as Taiwanese credits. Why do you not want to stop this purpose by means of the law we are proposing? Believe me, we are well-intentioned to propose this law, not on purpose at all. It is therefore very important that you actually accept this novelty so that we can actually curb all of these possible shortcomings that it now has so that there will be no more such or other problems. I hope that by Wednesday, when the vote is taken, you will think about it and that in fact we will all take one big step forward towards a better tomorrow in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u106	Respectable. Nicely greeted. I think that the purpose of making proposals for such laws is solely to speak there within three days and to debate matters that are already under way. Now we hear a whole bunch of professional forecasts about how the tycoons get credit and stuff. If I don't like a company and it's getting credit, then it's tycunization. I think that the Guarantee Scheme Act has this content, which is also proposed by this law, so there is no need for additional burden in these legislative procedures. It is impossible to lend to those who would like to spend this credit on corporate takers. The restriction is, of course, also clear who can be credited. This is clearly stated in Article 8. And changing the conditions until we see - and now the results of the guarantee scheme appear slowly, but until it is clear what the effect of this guarantee scheme is, in fact, no need to amend this legislation. I know that the applicant says that the debate on the guarantee scheme has already been held four times in the National Assembly, that the spasm has not yet given way, etc. It has already been said here that the SDS has an obvious solution or patent to how to solve the problem of the economy not only in Slovenia but in Europe and in the world, and that this could be patented and sold and well lived. The wall will be the slager of the season now, of course. I am very sorry that this extremely recognizable company in the world, not just in Europe, in the world, because I know that a friend in New York two years ago on an extremely important street, could have bought Mura's dress. Why is what is happening now - of course, this government is not to blame. And, come on, tell the recipe how to save! Whether it is agreed that we will spend €5 million each month, which will not always be enough and will of course have to grow, or should we start restructuring years ago. This is, of course, very easy to say, and this is also a waste of words when we say that someone is in trouble, but let the restructuring take place. But ten workers today, one hundred tomorrow, one hundred the next day and the next year, could possibly get to a number of these workers and workers in the Mura who could drive this factory industry forward. I know that in Murska Sobota the whole species is on very fertile land built "indus-con", so everything is set up for industrial zones, and we get an investor, and let's do it, let's help those who want to do something else, not just sew and are willing to retrain to begin with. This is the same as when we talk about drought, a series of years - well, now it's funny to talk about drought in this rain, but it also drys up a lot of things every year, and insurance companies have to pay for it instead of starting to build irrigation systems. That's the solution. And Muri's got a solution, but not on the quick side. 3 000 300 workers can't be restructured tomorrow, so whoever you are, you have this knowledge and you offer it, give it, with the papers on the plan and save Mura so that people won't be without bread and work. Of course, I will not support this bill because, as I said in the introduction, the Guarantee Schemes Act has this content and there is no need for us to duplicate and to burden all those who then have to apply these laws in practice, and then they do not understand who could, who could not. So I think that this debate is irrelevant, and it is actually a waste of time, except that we're even explaining history back and forth, predicting who would be good tomorrow, who wouldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u108	Nice greetings, respectable vice president, colleagues, colleagues! Sometimes a person in the National Assembly feels that, at least in the opposition, it is a waste of time and that it is irrelevant what we say. Similarly, it will be evident in this case when it comes to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. However, because this debate is very wide and there will be no wrong impressions - even Mr Brulco is no longer here - but only information, the drought cannot be protected. Only the tower is secured, so that the insurance companies do not pay for the droughts. As for the problem in Mura, I think there is also a need for a broader debate, and the proposal is that it goes this way, and those who show how it will be very easy for industrial zones to resolve such things during the recession have certainly missed a few years. Also probably in Pomure and in Mura itself, there are many things in these years, but I suggest that we talk about this another time, more seriously and responsibly. In this proposal on the guarantee scheme, I think it is something very normal. I am pleased that the guarantee scheme has started to work and that the first companies have already obtained this guarantee and that this credit crunch will also be somewhat smaller. It is also right to say that, despite the fact that procedural matters and amendments to the laws of the National Assembly and the State Council have been lost for quite some time, the truth has been lovingly, and according to my data, the legislators say, Parliament, we have not done any harm, as the other documents for the implementation of the guarantee scheme have been practically proposed and adopted later. It's such a shame to share the obvious. It's only right that this scheme works. However, I firmly believe that what is precisely the intention of this law to be easy for banks - not as has been seen in the Slovenian political space and as the heads of the largest bank have already been flying, that politics will explain who can give someone some credit and how much. I think this is the basic task of banks and let them do it successfully and responsibly. However, when we talk about the State's guarantee of these loans, I think it would not be blasphemous if the National Assembly adopted such a decision or such a supplement as to restrict the State's simple means of guaranteeing that it would not be possible for the credits used for equity consolidation and capital concentration to be covered by the State guarantee. If the banks as capital owners have assessed that these purchases are justified, they should be able to guarantee what they have done. While what we give and guarantee on behalf of taxpayers, it would be right to exempt from this maze of large acquisitions in Slovenia. It was not clear to me, therefore, when this was said in the basic bill, as I do not understand today, why such rejection of this idea, which I think is very clear, sincere and I do not see any problems in it. On the other hand, I firmly believe that many of those who did not deal with acquisitions are dealing with business problems today, and these 1.2 billion guarantees would certainly be usefully used in this sector. So I will support this bill myself, but I must say that I find this persistent rejection by the coalition rather strange or, as it is said at home, we really get the feeling that something stinks in the background and that the lawmaker has chosen certain tycoons who are "real" tycoons and set up a sieve in the basic law; for those "rights" he keeps such a scheme as he originally intended. Therefore, you will probably have to explain this to the Slovenian public once, if not today, and sometimes in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. [[She's gone.]] Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u110	Once again, a nice hello to everyone. Now, in order to know what we are talking about, it is necessary to say that a similar solution has already been discussed when this amendment of the law was discussed at the May meeting of the Finance Committee, and some of the Members of the ruling coalition present and Members of the ruling coalition back then supported this solution on the Committee. Thus, we should ask ourselves how they changed their views at the time of the committee to the national assembly, but that is their problem. Nor is it possible for those debates to pass through these babolinese debates that those who know about the recipe should patent them for a solution to the crisis. We know what the ratios of power in this national assembly are, we know who decides, the apparently ruling coalition does not have the courage to make the appropriate decisions, and we would like to put the burden on the opposition. Sorry, that's not working. You have taken responsibility for running this country, and you will also attribute the consequences of your inappropriate, wrong, late decisions. Unfortunately, many Slovenians and Slovenians will have to bear the burden, which is the biggest problem in this story. One of these things is also this so-called credit crunch, where this measure, the guarantee scheme, comes at least six months too late. Effects, auctions, these are not effects. The effects are shown when the numbers indicate that the train has turned in a different direction. There is probably a lot between us, at least we should be honest in the last few days, not just because of time, but because we have read Eurostat's data on the 9% decline in GDP at the annual level in the first quarter of this year. Given that Slovenia grew by an average of 3% under the previous government or that GDP increased by an average of 3% at a higher rate than the euro area average, it would be reasonable to expect that Slovenia will now go back at least this pace and given that in the same period when Slovenia fell by 9%, the euro area fell by 2.5%. Not so far from that European Commission announcement last December, when she said, Slovenia will be one of the few countries that will not go into recession, 2.5 plus 0.6, [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thus, Slovenia would be one of the few countries if the measures taken by the new government were to be adopted in a timely manner, which would not have entered the recession this year, but there were no such measures, which we have always pointed out. [[..]] They also came when they were too late, in the beginning some were processed under unfavourable and uninteresting conditions, and all of this led to Slovenia now facing one of the biggest crises so far or in its history. And it is normal that this crisis is part of the global crisis, but it is the responsibility of this government to take decisions that will help us get out of this crisis as quickly as possible. Failure to take action is also the responsibility of this government and not of some other governments. We discussed earlier that we will obviously have some positive effects, or measures, that have been taken in the past months in the euro area, on our own. The fact is that if these measures were not at the level of the euro area, particularly Germany, France and so on, many of our industry would have experienced a number of problems in recent months, which our company has faced in the same way as we now do in Mura. Unfortunately, Mure cannot be saved by any European state because it is a specific activity and it would be reasonable to expect us to make use of that time or to use it to restructure such companies in an appropriate manner. I am also talking about this because I think it is important to point out that, when we consider this, it is important, if we say so, for the anti-Taikun amendment, to stress briefly that it is unfortunate that Slovenia, as it seems - this has not yet happened, but - will be delayed due to the inefficiency of this government and the ruling coalition - an exceptional opportunity for us to make social, economic restructuring of our society in these times of crisis. Thus, at the level of the value system, where we have witnessed that certain values have been broken and where we have talked about the need to build on some new values that will no longer be the accumulation of wealth, materialism, more profits and so on, but one broader society of creativity of knowledge, new technologies, the building of a more just social and social system. And if any country, I think that Slovenia has now had the perfect opportunity, in these circumstances and in these circumstances, to take this moment to take advantage of these measures. I'm afraid this period is delayed. The opposition has offered a hand in this, several times. We offered both a cooperation deadline and measures, we wanted to participate in these changes, we were rejected. It must be said that the consequences of these decisions, which concern many unemployed as well as the consequences of the decline of the economic race, which would not be necessary, will have to be taken over. In the opposition and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are still prepared to participate in solutions that will be good for all, if, of course, you will be aware by the ruling that good solutions coming from the opposition must also be supported. And one of the good ones you've already supported is the one you have on your desk today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Not everything that this government has done is bad, and not everything that the previous government has done is good. I don't mind admitting it, but it's true that many people in this room find it hard to admit it. But I want to be very clear. It is not about restricting banks from lending or reprogramming so-called tycoon loans. We don't require this limitation. However, we are against - and therefore we want to limit or better declare a ban on the use of State guarantees for these activities. In fact, we need these state guarantees for something else. For a completely different purpose. Banks may reprogramme Taiwanese credits without State guarantees in accordance with their rules, where risk exposure is also taken into account. The reprogram of these loans could have been done by the bank yesterday, it can do it today and it can do it tomorrow. But it's a matter of responsibility. Unfortunately, one of the CEOs had to resign or leave because of responsibility. With this law in force, we have, in fact, only dispersed this responsibility. Thus, of course, the new presidents of the boards will no longer have to resign, nor will they have to defend themselves before the public if they do so. Once again - that banks can manage these loans without State guarantees, the article in Dinner of 22 April this year, which includes some emphasis from the New Ljubljana Bank press conference. I will read this paragraph or paragraph once again because I read it once again: "The loans secured by securities are 900 million euros, of which 250 million euros are loans earmarked for managers' purchases. At market prices, we have EUR 1.2 billion in securities collateral for them. We think they're very well insured. There's a lot of talk about how we were able to finance management acquisitions, which is not true. They certainly had between 25 and 40% of their own resources. The amount of EUR 250 million from the bank's point of view is very manageable and greater risks than usual loans are not seen..." - said Alojz Jamnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a law that is important because it puts certain things in the right place and actually aligns them with those or some of those actions that you have tried to convince the public in this mandate that they are right to represent a new policy. This is a bill that goes in the context of your request for a parliamentary inquiry concerning Taiwanese loans in the case of Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz. This law is actually the wording of what you are proposing by parliamentary investigation. If you do not support this law in the text as it is before us, then it means that the request you have made is only fictitious and is intended only for parading and misleading the public. What we have ahead of us is the operationalization of what you wrote down there. There was a lot of talk today about the credit crunch. This credit spasm does not give up, and it is likely that it will not give up for a long time, because if we do not complete these management credit options, then there is no way that the credit spasm will give up. Because it takes about 100, 150 million for the Laško Brewery; as we know, we are talking about some 500 million euros for Istrabenz. In both cases these things happen programmed and planned, it is said that some resources will be needed for both programmed bankruptcy or for programmed recapitalisation, and the fact is that all these important quotas, including state guarantees, will be able to benefit from some large systems or some large owners. And there's no problem on the one hand talking about 100 million for one system, 500 million for the other system. That's how it goes, running past us. But it was extremely difficult to provide EUR 5 million for Mura and 3,000 people. It's extremely difficult. And until we rule out the possibility of excluding consumers, such as Istrabenz, Pivovarna Laško, from the guarantees, from the taxpayers' funds, from the guarantee, perhaps a large system, by then, for all those in need, there will be a bank upheaval on our banking market. They won't be able to get to the money. They just won't be able to because it's going to be loaded elsewhere. And we will be particularly concerned by such decisions, because of the coalition's behaviour in this mandate, because Members of Parliament are very assisting it, we can only monitor our problem, these business failures are only being monitored and will be loaded at the Employment Institute for the new unemployed. I would like to warn you about this when we talk so much about some of the indicators. Not long ago, we were the best new member of the European Union. We have entered as the best member, the first to receive the euro, the first to meet all the conditions, today, as regards economic growth, the two Eastern European members, the member of the Warsaw Pact. Two! Take a look at the data and you will see that the Czech Republic and Poland face significantly smaller problems, and certainly have come into the European system significantly less prepared, with significantly larger structural problems, etc. Even now, they may have problems in other areas, perhaps even in monetary, but they keep economic growth at a significantly higher level than Slovenia. They have the same key export partners. The same! Western European members are also key partners for Poland. And this indicates that the conduct of our executive powers is not such as to hold Slovenia above or at the level that we had in the previous term.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor - no. The government -- no. Mr. Mag. The viscous--no. I take it that you have reached the point of all those who wish to speak, but because the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Rudolf Petan has applied. Here you go, Mr. Petan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. There was much to be said about this marriage, and there was much to be said about it. The fact is that loans can also be obtained by so-called tycoons, with a state guarantee. To get credit, there's nothing wrong - it's easy; any bank can do it to the boards, but it's with the state guarantee - and that's the problem. That's why we introduced this law. We say that this is not good and is not in line with what the highest representatives of this executive power have provided. That's also a special problem, because one is spoken and another is done. From the Prime Minister to the ministers down. This is a problem if the President of the Government and ministers advocate and put the fight against the tycoons first, while at the same time the Government proposes and you, as a majority, adopt laws that allow what the government is supposed to fight against and the highest representatives of the executive branch. A few minutes ago, in this room, I will just say the name from Mrs Pecanova that economic growth in the previous term was significantly higher than it was in Europe, and we were one of the most pro-pulsive countries in the European Union that this economic growth was based on unrealistic foundations. How it was based on unrealistic foundations, but at the same time we were the least accredited country - if I can use this term! So what are the unrealistic bases if we haven't even used credit for this? That at the same time we have become the most pro-pulsive, with the highest growth rate and one least-credited country in the EU. It doesn't work together! And then this same respected lady said, because this economic growth was based on unrealistic foundations, a small needle came and everything broke. Now I'm going to ask the same question. Who wanted to break this high economic growth with that needle? Did you, perhaps, when you came to power, do so? And then, at the same time, I can also ask myself, was everything previously based on unrealistic growth, do we have a possible scientific recession? Now that you're in power! It is foolish to say that it used to be based on some unrealistic foundations, if we also used at least credits to do so. In addition, we can ask ourselves what is better, what is better, what is possible economic growth, as you say, on unrealistic grounds, and what is economic growth, and what is practically zero unemployment, is better now that I have a'scientific recession'. Today we have read that we have 115,000 unemployed, considering those who have an official student status, but in fact it is not, just because they have some credit. And there's something else I'd like to say because there's been a lot of talk about Mura. Surely this matter has deep roots, and we must be clear about this. However, something does not go together. At least we could have a normal conversation with the people of Mura or with the representatives of Mura, but not so ignorant; that is the problem. For example, at the Mura press conference, the mayor of Murska Sobota was not allowed to participate, which is still relevant and asked to participate, but was not possible. And I'm asking you, isn't that ignorant? At least what could have been done would have cost nothing, no credit, no euro - and that was not possible. He was admitted in an hour. I'm sorry, if it's not too much ignorance, then I don't know what it is. And one more thing. People who usually parade in an army and similar outfits come to the meetings with Mura’s representatives. I find that a little unrealistic, too. And another thing that has already been mentioned to some extent is that I think we should say it again. There was no problem in obtaining a state guarantee of EUR 100 million for Mercury, Istrabenz and Israbenz were engaged in all the Slovenian banking transactions, which is good, we cannot just send the company to bankruptcy. However, no one can be found in the battles of 5 million for Mura. There's barely anyone in the interview. Is this the social approach you were talking about, that you can do better and that you will be able to think more socially? I don't think that's exactly the opposite, that the previous government was significantly more social. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] If nothing, because the best social security is high economic growth. And that's what we had in our previous term, and we don't have that today. And that's sad. Of course, I support this measure, which we propose in this law, because I think it can be a pebble in a mosaic. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this item on the agenda. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - First defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 15 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a representative of the bill's proponents, mag. Andre Visiak, for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u118	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! There is once again another attempt to reduce the bureaucratic burden on Slovenian economic operators, which is borne by gold- and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In fact, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen are the ones who are often in companies called a girl for all. They take the administrative part of the business, drive the development part of the business, drive the production part of the business, staff part of the business, actually run the whole business. And if we make it easier for these economic operators to administer, to reduce the bureaucratic burden, we have done a lot. And the basic intention of this law is this: the aim is to reduce all the burdens that these entrepreneurs have to pay to the country or all the funds and institutions that the State has to reduce to just one payment order, which is then distributed from this single account, where the funds are indicated, by a number of other sub-accounts or by a number of recipients of these funds. When we analyzed the existing situation, we found that legal persons or independent entrepreneurs have to refer funds to up to ten different accounts. When we talk about contributions from wages and when we talk about contributions to wages, when we talk about taxes and the like, there are more than 10. Let me just give you one illustration. In fact, if one single entrepreneur who has one employee, or one d.o.o. who has one employee, has to pay contributions, he has to pay four contributions from the salary, one contribution to the health insurance, another contribution to the pension and disability insurance account, then the contribution to the employment and parental care contribution is paid. This is a contribution to health insurance, a contribution to PIZ, equal for employment, for parental care, for injury at work. That's five extras, total nine. If, of course, we still have taxes and withdrawals here, that's over 10 of all these remittances. If we then look at how much a single transfer costs, i.e. only through the service of the bank, we can find that this is 1.8 euros for a Virman or via a pro-click of 0.8 euros for the New Ljubljana Bank, and we can calculate something quickly to mean a few hundred euros for a single craftsman at the annual direct savings level. Not to talk about indirect savings due to the less time that this unnecessary bureaucratic exercise should be spent by this entrepreneur. So, on the one hand, we have direct financial effects on the business of the entrepreneur and the indirect positive effects on the business of the entrepreneur and at the same time no negative financial impact on the country. Because only banks and financial institutions, because of all these administrative tasks or payments, and surely these small entrepreneurs could, even those who do it themselves or do it in some family circle, spend this time on something smarter. Therefore, the basic objective is to introduce the possibility of a single transfer of all tax liabilities and other liabilities to the common account and their subsequent division by the relevant key. This, once again, would significantly reduce the administrative burden on businesses, which would also lead to a concrete action towards companies with a more business-friendly environment, in the direction of a number of directions issued by the European Union in the sense that I am not talking about an act for small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore ask Members and Members to support the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State has the floor, mag. Helena Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The government supports the purpose of this law. He is aware that this must be done. I think the previous government and, I suppose, the previous government were aware of that. Unfortunately, neither has been effective in achieving this objective. We're moving on. I hope that we will be more effective in achieving the goal. To this end, the whole project is designed because it is an extremely complex issue and the objectives are set so that by the end of this year an accurate project and all the activities that need to be done to achieve the objective of ensuring a regulatory environment and information support by the end of this year and that the implementation of all of this will be done in 2011. Why, in fact, we believe that the proposed solution enshrined in this law will not lead to a goal - and this is also why the Government does not support this law. The reasons are as follows: the issue of this issue is covered by a number of laws: the Tax Procedure Act, the Public Finance Act, the Payments Act, the "sub-legislative acts based on these rules and, in particular, a number of laws introducing individual compulsory duties, in addition to taxes themselves, and supervisors of individual compulsory duties. The bill does not answer at least three key questions. We have different deadlines for payment of duties in different laws. This fact alone prevents the idea from being carried out in the way it is drawn. The deadlines laid down in individual laws are the first problem we do not solve under this law. Another problem is the different way of recovery and recovery of individual compulsory duties. We are also not solving this issue with this legislation, with this proposal for a law. It is also a problem to provide data for the exercise of control, which is also regulated by sectoral legislation in specific areas. In addition, the proposal for a law extends the time limit for fulfilling the tax obligation, which is inconsistent with the rules on the payment of tax liability. I would like to draw attention to the fact that existing legislation, within a given regulatory framework, allows for some simplifications that may be under-serviced by taxable persons or those who pay compulsory benefits. In fact, the Tax Procedure Act itself allows the taxpayer to pay more fees than the same supervisor, which means, with those 10 obligations that you previously listed, honourable Member Vizjak, we can immediately come to three payment orders because we have a Durs Supervisor, we have a health insurance supervisor, we have a pension insurance supervisor. It's the power to unite now, for example, on three payment orders. That's another thing. A taxable person can, in essence, determine, under the existing law, which obligation to settle, and, finally, it is now possible for legal persons to apply an electronic payment method for tax liabilities. As I say, we support the goal. I think we will find an appropriate solution in a short time and solve this problem, so the government cannot support the law at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will be the first to present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u122	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. Allow me to present the DeSUS position on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. The main solutions proposed by the Amendments to the Tax Procedure Act are the possibility of a single transfer of all tax liabilities belonging to the State, municipalities, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and other recipients to a common account and their distribution by the appropriate key, to determine in more detail the Ministry of Finance within 60 days. And the provision that a taxable person can decide for himself on the priority of payment of tax liabilities. Members of the DeSUS, when reading this proposal, we have noted, as are the other Members, that this is a completely identical change in the text as in the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Finance, which was discussed at the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in May this year. Chapter 2, the text of the articles is practically the same, there are only a few differences, such as the provision that the debtor may decide on the priority of payment of tax obligations, then there is a longer time limit for the adoption of sub-laws of the Ministry of Finance from 15 to 60 days, then the paper under consideration does not provide for the Government to report to the State Assembly on the state and development of electronic forms of payment of obligations, levies and other public financial revenues, and on the state and development of electronic communication of tax and business data to national or tax authorities and agencies. Both proposals, of which the amendment of the Public Finance Act has not been followed, have therefore not been adopted and therefore the same objectives and objectives are pursued. It should also be noted that the applicants submit proposals for laws under a rather similar system of copying and are based on the accompanying text of this proposal, as well as several other laws such as the Income Act, the Value Added Tax Act, the Law on corporate income tax, the Law on Economic Assistance in Time of Economic Crisis, to promote private consumption, as these are practically very identical texts. We do not support such continuitys in the submission of the same draft laws with impossible solutions in the DeSUS Group, because we believe that such content does not in any way bring constructive solutions, the right starting points for the crisis period. The accompanying texts of the amendment proposals, including the law under consideration, begin with critical attacks on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, such as [[Quote]] : "Unfortunately, the forecasts of experts have come true that the Slovenian economy will fall into economic recession because the Borut Pahor's government is too late and is inefficient to respond to the global financial crisis." [[End of quote.]] However, the following text does not support this claim in any way with credible data, documents and evidence, so that it cannot be taken seriously. The proposed law, or its purpose, had therefore already been discussed in the National Assembly at its 10th extraordinary meeting, the May meeting, and at that time we found that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. A request for a single mandate was made by employers' organisations last year. The government in its previous mandate had the opportunity to fully regulate this single task system, since the latter was also the subject of a government programme to remove administrative barriers, but the latter has not been implemented. Now we have an identical solution included in the Tax Procedure Act. Members of the DeSUS Group estimate that it would be appropriate to simplify the payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues, but Members of the DeSUS proposal will not be supported at this time for the following reasons. Most importantly, the proposal is not basically prepared in a way that would enable it to be implemented. Secondly, the inadequacy of dividing the duty by a certain key, taking into account the fact that 11,700 are budgetary, municipal and around 10,300 others. Thirdly, for all compulsory benefits to be fixed on the same day of maturity in the month, that is to say, the method of recovery or recovery of underpaid or overpaid duties and other assumptions cannot be included solely as a sub-legislative provision of the Ministry responsible for finance, but the method of payment of duties and other public financial revenues should be provided for by a specific act. For the proposed rationalisation of these procedures of payment and reduction of administrative barriers and costs, it is certainly necessary, in our opinion, to provide budgetary resources, while the applicant claims that the latter is not necessary. So we are convinced that this is also linked to some financial obligation, i.e. the pressure on public finances. For this reason, the DeSUS Group decides that it cannot support this novel at this time and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u124	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin to make our position or understanding of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure with a plainly heard report saying that there is a new and there is good. But the correlation is this: what's new is not good, and what's good is not new. This is the philosophy of politics and the National Assembly. In this case, before I specifically explain, I will also say that in the Slovenian National Party we prefer sparrows in our hands as pigeons on the roof. Or, in other words, we would rather support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure, but it is not the only one, but we are waiting for the promises of any government to do something sometime in order to do it as envisaged here. In the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the Amendment and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, SDS applicants stated that "experts' forecasts have been made that the Slovenian economy will fall into economic recession because the Borut Pahor's government has reacted too late and ineffectively." That's not true; now the criticism goes to this side first. In September 2008, the whole world knew it was a recession, and the former government also knew. She didn't act, but she knew. It has not acted, and now it is not fair to bear responsibility, even though the law is good, but to bear the responsibility of this government. Let's be honest with each other. Forecasts of economic growth - criticism of the government and the ministries occupied by your people. When we were sitting on the Finance Committee, it was a public secret that the fall of gross social product was not 1.1%, but 4%, and the representative of Umarja told me that he could not say that. Why can't we just find out what the real fall is? And when he told the public secret that the fall of the gross social product would be minus 1%, we all knew it would be 4%. Today, we all know that a 9% drop is a gross social product. We all know that, until today, there is no official publication of the real state, and this is where we have to get to the ashes. Now it's not fair to say what the reason is or what it isn't. It is not fair to say that the deterioration of the economic situation in Slovenia is not only due to the financial and economic crisis, but mainly to the inefficiencies and inefficiencies of the government of Borut Pahor. That's not fair. I am not in favour of Borut Pahor, but one man in one year cannot perform miracles like the previous government, which she did, could not do by starting to think about the economic situation in the last year and starting to save. It's all my fault that we've been sitting here, personally with me as the legislative branch of power for nine years. This side and this side. But it is good that this law is before us. It is good because it is true that taxpayers pay taxes on 10 and more different sub-accounts. And there are additional sub-accounts for sub-accounts. For each such transaction, the taxpayer today has to fulfil the payment orders, the tasks - sorry, I apologize, for which, of course, he pays enormous commissions to banks. Me, each of you and the other taxpayers, economic operators. Banks were thinning, resting on obesity, with millions of individual awards and 100,000 euros, and went to the expense of paying these fees. We therefore support the proposal of this law in the Slovenian National Party. Once again, this is one of the things that is written down, but only to warn that there will be no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds when this law is passed. They will, of course they will. It will be necessary to provide funds for the implementation of the single accounts and let us be honest and say that they will. They will not be enormous, a few 10,000 euros, but against the effects that will be achieved, it is nothing. But let's write that they won't, not write that they won't if we know they will. We support Article 1 and support the direction for a single transfer to the joint account. And once again, a better sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a roof. I believe that the government will work hard, but with the abundance of laws that we have dealt with in these few months, soon there will be one year of joint action in the new government, we have heard countless promises on the proposal of laws, how otherwise the law is good, but the government does not support it because it is preparing a new one. But these "because he's making a new one" are 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 12, 17, I don't know 23. And as long as it's not new, we're holding the sparrow in our hand. Let us accept good suggestions, support them, and apply to the new law. Either way, this amendment, which is already in force, will be incorporated into the new law. However, if we say so, we will not adopt this law, because there will be a new law that will take this into account, not this law, and I find it difficult to believe that there will be a new law. However, if there is a new law, I find it difficult to believe that such content will be included. Once we have to agree in the National Assembly whether we will go to the central policy of law-making, trust each other, settle together, left and right, as well as middle, say we will do it together and we will do it. While one side will work one side, the other side Let us accept what is good for the people, because 90 people represent 2 million Slovenes in this Chamber and so far we are one of three, otherwise equivalent, but I still say and claim that as long as we are parliamentary democracy, the first and most important branch of power is the National Assembly, the legislative branch. [[...]] Except that wishes are, unless they change the constitution and we make a presidential or some other democracy. Then we won't have to sit in the National Assembly anyway. Considering everything that's showing up. I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that you do so if you want or hope to do as we will in the Slovenian National Party. Let us support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure. Let us stop "baseing" now thousands of deposits to banks to serve only on commission on the positions, on millions, not thousands, millions. Let's stop this and give one joint account. I know you can't do that right through the night. I know there's gonna be some costs. To make the computer program go away. You have to have the will. But of course, the interests and hunters of large money-eaters, exploiters of euro or cents of individual people, and as economic operators, just pay. Pay 200, 500, 700 bills each and pay so much and so much commission. That's the only thing banks could live with. What about interest and what else? We to support this bill is a good intention, it has positive guidelines and I do not believe in the new coming laws, so I will gladly support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that, according to our assessment, by relatively simple, painless and non-injurious change, would make a huge contribution to removing administrative barriers and reducing the costs on the part of the taxpayers to pay various taxes. According to the drafter, the taxpayers should pay more than ten different sub-accounts. For each of the sub-accounts, it is necessary to complete the separate payment order and to pay the commission for each bank. On the one hand, therefore, it is a solution that relieves the debtors of administrative burdens and, on the other hand, the costs of operating companies and other debtors are not negligiblely reduced. Of course, the government is opposed to the bill. The arguments that such a very complex problem cannot be adequately or substantively defined and correctly defined as proposed. However, the Government is aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other obligations. And what will the Government or Government do to solve this problem? It set up a special working group to simplify the system, examine possible simplifications of the system, prepare a proposal for legal bases and so on. So, words without action. Given the pace of life we are living at this time, it is unfortunate that productivity and expediency, if you want, are operating the government at a level that simply does not follow this pace. A person would laugh about it if, unfortunately, not all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia were to bear the consequences. The proposed amendments are necessary and useful and the SLS Group will support the proposed legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Of course, at this point too, spears break and they measure political power. Sometimes at school they tell us that every excuse is good, even if the dog brings it to the tail. And here we would say that every bill, even though it is unrealistic and unrealistic, is good to attack the current government and divert attention from real matters. One is words, the other is actions. The proposal for a law that is difficult to implement or impossible in practice due to technical and other possibilities will surely have to wait a little longer. Otherwise, goals and reflections are certainly in place. Tax procedures need to be simplified, red tape reduced and why we should not pay something that we pay with multiple bills at once, but the essence and purpose of the law can certainly be seen from the explanation. Therefore, the drafters of the law on the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law state a wide variety of data or, more to the point, semi-data and even less good information. Numbers are often numbered unstructured and without comparison, which is certainly misleading. The comparisons need to be corrected and consistent. If we recognise the previous government's 3% higher average growth, then it's safe to say in the same breath that Slovenia had one of the highest inflations at that time, but there's nothing in the material. A more important comparison is that we were so good, why others were still significantly better back then. Let us limit ourselves only to new EU members and Turkey's candidate. These are Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Turkey and then 10th place Slovenia. I do not want to encourage a debate whether we have been successful or not. Our assessment is that we can claim that we have been relatively successful, but as always in life, we could be even better. On the other hand, if, in the context of these stories, we compare the fall of GDP with that of the European Commission, we find that Slovenia is among the members in a good 12th place, classified from the country with the smallest to the country with the largest decline in GDP. And I don't want to be overpollying the fall, the growth of the best, the worst, the slowest. However, I would like to point out that we are constructive in discussions during times of crisis and in amending legislation that we do not bring the subject into daily political life, as if we are in an impossible emergency every day, which is certainly not. That the economy is relatively in bad shape, we know. We also know that the economy is not on the ground, that it has very slow growth, and that if we all help it together, what can soon run again on the long lines, and this will succeed. And that must be the common goal of everyone in this room. It is not the goal to run under only one government, under one prime minister, that Slovenia must develop successfully over the coming years, decades, regardless of who will rule it. But if we go back to anti-crisis measures or government actions as a whole. If we jointly point out mistakes and how to improve things, let us also say something here about concrete results, about the achievements of the Government and this Parliament, without division. Our joint work is a guarantee scheme for the start of the economy. In practice, investment incentives have been put in place to address the crisis, to subsidise full-time employment to reduce unemployment, to increase EU funds for the use of technology equipment, to guarantee a subsidised rate of return on assets, to invest, to research and development calls and to invest in development projects, in agriculture, to ensure the successful implementation of the rural development programme 2007-2013 and, last but not least, to amend the tax procedure law, where the Government has implemented the calculation of the annual tax adjustment from legal persons' income in relation to the tax rate for the current year, irrespective of the rate of the previous year. I'm sure this marriage solution makes life easier for many people and troubles. Let's slowly close this debate so that we don't get too caught up in arguing over gross social product, budget deficits, best measures and the like. When it comes to counter-crisis measures, let us continue with the proposal to amend the tax procedure law. At the principal level, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we certainly agree with the envisaged amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, following simple objectives that we all strive for. These are simplifications and system updates. We do not agree, however, that, in principle and in the design of a good solution, they are being misused for the purpose of anti-crisis measures by the Government. Based on this fact and in the explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly states that for the purpose of examining the system of payment of taxes and other contributions, a specific working group has been set up to simplify tax procedures and prepare appropriate legal bases, without preparing, already preparing an integrated review, an integrated solution. And to those Members of Parliament's Liberal Democracy Club we will certainly attach. Such superficial, flattened, incomplete solutions are, as always, opposed. However, it has certainly been repeatedly said on our part that we are firmly convinced that we must strive to draw up laws that are coherent, consistent and, above all, effective in practice. In order to ensure this, and to avoid the various legal loopholes that such a flawedly prepared law could cause, we will not support the law. However, we propose to wait for the results of the work already being carried out in the working group, to call on the Government and its associated working group to prepare, as soon as possible and as soon as possible, appropriate legislative updates, which, of course, must include all the positive good thoughts that have been put forward and also mentioned by the proposers of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u130	Hello, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! In previous presentations, the views of the parliamentary groups have already been made on the amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. Let me recall that, already in May, the proposaler and the group of Members tabled an amendment to the Public Finance Act concerning the exercise of the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account and their distribution by the appropriate key. This is mainly about reducing the administrative burdens of Slovenian companies. Let me remind you, too, when we look at the initiatives and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia in the past mandate, when we look at the material on the discussions of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia and also some other Slovenian companies, it has already been highlighted several times, including the previous government, the former ministries, both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, in order to urgently address the need to contribute in particular to reducing administrative obstacles for Slovenian companies. Here I am referring to the proposal and, as far as I have seen in the programme of measures to remove administrative obstacles in the previous mandate of the previous government, the task of implementing this measure was prescribed or assigned in 2008 in particular. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. In the current term, the Coalition and the Government are very aware of the importance of simplifying the tax system and other obligations to reduce administrative barriers. Therefore, for 2009, the Government appointed a special working group on 26 May to simplify the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions and other compulsory duties and public financial revenues. The coalition is therefore unable to support the proposed law at a given time. However, the fact is that one of the priorities and changes is also a proposed change, but we must not overlook the fact that the payment methods of compulsory duties are regulated in different laws. In preparing a proposal for a law containing that content, consideration should be given to the possibility of a uniform payment in the context of these laws, namely the Taxation Act, the Tax Procedure Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Health Insurance and Health Act, the Social Security Contributions Act. We would like to remind the proposer that the laws already in force now allow the taxpayer to pay several duties monitored by one supervisor and paid on the same day with one task, which means that the supervisor and the taxable person exchange the specification. This is the calculation of the amount of the payment. The code of this account must be correctly entered in the reference to the payment order and therefore the taxpayer's payment of the tax to the transitional sub-account of the supervisor, from which the supervisor then allocates the duties, is incompatible with the payment sub-accounts. Importantly for the Slovenian company, for the debtor is the fact that the commission is paid for only one task. The position of the Social Democrats Group is that the proposed solution needs to be regulated systematically and brought into line with several laws, so we will vote against the proposal at a given time, as the law is not suitable for further consideration at a given time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Marjan Bezjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u132	Hello, Mr. Vice President. Well-known representatives of the government, unfortunately they're not here. Well-known Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Since micro, small and medium-sized enterprises account for 97% of the economy as a whole, it is high time to improve the business environment for small businesses, release their growth, potential and innovation. Complementing the law would allow for faster development of small businesses in the Slovenian economy as a whole. We would achieve positive economic effects, which is still important during the crisis. Unfortunately, if you are an entrepreneur, you are still a second - class person. It is therefore essential to simplify or amend legislation in the tax area, in particular in determining the level of the insurance base for independent entrepreneurs and the method of payment of obligations to the State. The purpose of amending and supplementing the proposed law is the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to a common account and to share them according to the relevant key. The proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act have no effect on public funding. There is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of the law. In the SDS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u134	Well, if there is, I don't think there's any reason to object to this law. This is one of the laws that continues the direction of the previous government concerning the rationalisation of the business of both economic and other entities in this country and which is even more important in this situation, as it also has material effects, material effects in that it is a financial burden for an important part of the Slovenian economy. This is a solution that makes it easier, more rational to pay the obligations owed to entrepreneurs through a single account and thus to reduce the cost of paying those obligations. On the other hand, there is also no negligible record of these payments, where, by reducing to one level, in addition to simplifying, it also increases its transparency, transparency, traceability and so on. In the debate or presentation of the views of one of the parliamentary groups, it was said that the previous government had done nothing to prevent the decline of economic growth, although in September it was already known that the economy was cooling down. Of course that's not true. Those who presented this position did not turn the list into a piece of paper, because, on the other hand, it spells out exactly what was done during the previous government, which measures were then taken by the new government and also enforced in the National Assembly and which did not. If you remember, on 8 October last year, the previous government, or the President of the then government, Mr Janez Janša, and former Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk, informed the public that the roles of all savers in Slovenian banks are safe to unlimited height. If this did not happen then, even though we only passed the law in the second half of November in the National Assembly, if this did not happen immediately, quickly, in time, I firmly believe that even in Slovenia, there would be a collapse of the banking system or bankruptcy of at least one, if not more banks. Since there would be panic, people would be thrashing into banks, we know what psychosis was then not just in Slovenia, everywhere else, and we would raise the savings. Since this prediction was made quickly, in time, this did not happen. And something similar was also expected from the new government to do on the second segment that we discussed at the previous item on the agenda, which relates to non-equity or lack of funding to ensure production. The credit crunch that began at the time did not give up today and will not give up for a while. And in view of the decisions taken by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, it is feared that the bulk of the funds in the banks will be intended to extend the so-called tycoon loans, which is bad. The quality funds provided by the Guarantee Scheme Act should focus on the acceleration of economic production, especially because no one has changed the Development Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted during the previous government, which is also responsible for this government, where it says that Slovenia will be better in terms of economic growth, at least for 3 percentage points. Simply put, if the previous government has managed to increase economic growth on average by three percentage points faster than the euro area average, the current government should, in view of the documents in force and binding on it, because they have not been amended, allow this decline, which occurred during this government, to be at least three percentage points lower than the euro area average, which, as we have seen since the last Eurostat report, is 2.5%. This means that we should record 0.1% of positive economic growth this year. We know she's not. Eurostat announced that GDP in Slovenia dropped by 9% on an annual basis. We're on the tail of the most black scenarios. And no one will convince me that a capable government, competent, would be able to prevent these black scenarios with appropriate measures. I'm afraid that's not the case. We are losing a lot of debate, a lot of time already under one of the laws that we have today on a table that does not mean any financial burden, means only on the one hand unloading an important part of economic operators, simplifying business, and on the other hand savings for those same entities. If, already in such a law, which is good for all and which does not mean any additional burden on the state budget, not only is there no support, there is no one from the Government here who would at least sit here if he had said nothing in this regard, the clear relationship of the leading governing structure towards this country, to the Slovenian economy and ultimately to all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian National Party, and also personally, I support the proposal to amend or supplement the tax procedure law. We welcome the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, in view of the removal of administrative obstacles and the reduction of the costs of the debtors, it is necessary to ensure that compulsory duties and contributions are paid as easily as possible. This seems to be just a principled declaration position. At the same time, the Government cites a series of excuses on the complexity of content, about various obstacles to achieving the goal. This objective is simpler and, in particular, cheaper and faster to pay the obligations that the S.p. and legal persons must regularly implement or fulfil. In doing so, the Government shall specify the different statutory deadlines for payment of duties, the different ways of recovery and recovery and so on and so on. I don't think we're ever going to come up with that kind of thinking. So to a cheaper and more up-to-date way of paying taxes and contributions. I would rather expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider removing obstacles and reasons that prevent the possible implementation of the proposed amendment and amendments to the law. If we were to think in this direction and the competent authorities in the Government would also act in this direction in a timely manner, this bill of amendment and supplementation would come in a very good way and would be very useful for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Brada Roast. Mrs. Breda Pecan, will you discuss it? [[He's quitting.]] Lois Posedel. [[No, no, ……]] I'd love a lycar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will not discuss here again who is responsible for the crisis, who knew about it and who did not. I'm not saying it doesn't matter. All I'm saying is that it doesn't affect whether I support the law or not. The fact is that any matter can be even better and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, gives the possibility or right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account. This is already being done to some extent by directing so - called collective and transitional accounts. I am of the opinion that this system should only be upgraded or refined a little longer. Where there is will, there is also the way to improve. This would significantly reduce administrative burdens. In particular, this would mean a contribution to small entrepreneurs, and the costs of banking services would also be reduced. And because "Time is money," as a saying, entrepreneurs would save quite a valuable amount of time that they could use more to deal with the crisis and to find a solution that concerns their activities. As for the promise of another marriage, a number of such promises have already been made. Let me mention just a few: The Government does not support the law amending the Income Act, the Government does not support the amendment to the proposal for an additional tax from the income of members of management and supervisory committees during the financial crisis, which says that bankruptcy managers are also included among the taxpayers to pay this additional tax if the Government is preparing its own. And like a fellow Member said, "A better sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a roof." In my opinion, the law is good and completely unpolitical, which could be an obstacle to some of them, so I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Luka Yuri won't discuss it. Mr. Sylven Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The assessment of the situation in the tax procedure is poor. The Government is being criticised, but it is not entirely responsible for the existing situation, since the coming period has been known before, but at the time of the merger, no one thinks that something like this will happen in such a short time or that we may be bypassed. As we have heard, the Government supports the objective of this law, but from experience we know that no government has been effective, not the previous one, not the present one, and the goal set has not been achieved. Removing administrative barriers and simplifying the process with lower costs is, of course, acceptable to everyone, but it is only too little to speak. The measure must be imposed in such a way that it is acceptable to all. It is particularly irresponsible to put a policy on a profession that needs to be trusted and given all the support. Of course, it is a mistake that the proposals proposed by the opposition are always weak in order to disqualify the coalition and the government. The law is well-intentioned and will facilitate business procedures by rationalising payments and obligations, so I support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franz Jursha, will you discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! This law certainly has a good purpose, for it will actually save Slovenian economists, entrepreneurs and all citizens a large proportion of the funds they have to pay for so many and so many positions throughout the year. Contributions to a self-employed person are paid to three different accounts and to employees to four or five different accounts and to legal persons to ten accounts. We must stress that the actual payment or commission of the bank for one position is up to €50,000 0.32 and above €50,000 is.80. Now calculate how much savings this is for a company or for a natural person. We therefore propose that you support this law. This law is well-intentioned and will certainly bring a positive climate into the economy, climate towards this government, which is widely criticised. This would, believe me, also correct a number of bitter words by economists, our fellow citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. So once again, I would like you to recalculate, the economists have already calculated how much savings we will make for these people in the current economic situation. Someone's going to say again why it wasn't already done in the previous government. Believe me, if everything had been done in previous mandates, we would no longer need to be here today. The situation is changing from day to day, so we are Members and Members of Parliament, who have been sent, chosen by the citizens to actually listen to things, to help us overcome this crisis that we are currently in. I therefore hope and believe that, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, you will vote in favour of this law, because the countries are hardly burdensome. As the colleague had previously said, perhaps for printing new positions where there would be one instead of sending them ten, which is actually like a grain of millet that we give to birds in winter. Once again, I ask you to take the time to think about it and take this big step forward by Wednesday. It is true that there will not be as much financial impact for the economy as anyone might think, but it will be a big step forward for economic operators, for people who are now experiencing a major crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Yoko Godec? [[No, no, ……]] Quiet Jerich? [[No, no, ……]] Ivan Grill? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Secretary of State and, of course, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a general debate on a law that can, with a little goodwill and willingness of the government, upgrade it as well as the rest of the legislation, if necessary, subordinate it to this objective and with minimum costs would certainly bring great positive effects to the Slovenian economy. Perhaps not so much in the financial sense, but also this, especially in removing bureaucratic barriers. I believe that in some large companies such a law will probably not have so much effect because there are these services dealing with the payment of all these contributions that have been avoided. Given that these services are already functioning, this effect could be reduced. However, I firmly believe that for small entrepreneurs, who also need to have all these costs, which are as high for them as for large systems, there would be a greater financial impact, especially in order to remove bureaucratic barriers. In Slovenia we have always been or Slovenia has always been in fact a negative example of unnecessary bureaucracy, which in the past is still a major obstacle to a number of business processes. And it is right that we all strive to end red tape. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already invested well in this mandate, or we have passed many of the laws that they had, and we believe that they would also have effects that would have positive effects on the world situation in Europe and in us, and today, they would face less unemployment than they do, and probably a smaller fall in gross social product. But we weren't heard. There has always been a reason for the government to prepare system laws, to prepare them in due course and to have better effects. Unfortunately, all of this is too small or, you could say, almost nothing. We have already visited a number of entrepreneurs in all regions of Slovenia in the previous mandate of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We had conversations with them, conversations with them, we could listen to them, and we learned from them above all. They are the ones who know the most about what it takes for them to do better, easier, so better. And we're actually translating these ideas into these laws. That is why this observation, which has already been made today, that the idea of the Chamber of Commerce is essentially summed up in this law that we are considering today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not the ones who have to generate such innovations on our own, which are not yet available. Good politicians will be able to listen to those who know, master things, and we, as Members or as Members of Parliament, are those who, after the constitution, have the opportunity and also the duty to propose such changes. However, we have not been heard, even though these are well-meaning suggestions. You can tell us why this law was not introduced in the previous term, that we had four years to solve it back then. At the same time, you forget or do not want to remember that more has probably been done in the previous mandate in the area of the elimination of administrative barriers than during the whole period of Slovenia. First of all, this is the credit of former Minister Gregor Virant. That is also evidence of the distinguished international recognition received by the Ministry of Public Administration, which has now been taken over by the current minister, but thanks mainly to the previous minister and the previous government. A number of administrative bureaucratic obstacles have come to an end and should be followed. This law, which is before us today, is also a step towards this. When the Madam Secretary had previously interpreted or argued a rejection of this bill, certain matters were probably also to be understood and could be supported as such, but that did not justify not having some good will and perhaps also a different approach and improvement of this law gave rise to a variety of problems or concerns or to the reasons you state. If there is a provision in another law that may be contrary to the provision in this law, the law can change relatively quickly, especially if it is a short law or a short amendment. If it were good will, all those arguments could in fact be overcome in this way. However, I think that the Government should approach this and, above all, the support of the coalition Members to support this law through this general debate and to complement it with amendments. As one already said today: Better sparrow in hand than pigeon on the roof, this law takes that first step, and then, Madam Secretary of State, if you have set up this group or committee or committee that will try this law or this goal to pursue in some other way, let them do their work, but I think that we will primarily help our economy, simplify these procedures, and I think that this is the leg that will help us to dig out of this situation that we have in Slovenia faster, especially without any worse consequences than we have today. I'll support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u145	Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Somehow I remembered one river of one of my good friends, who repeated it several times, going this way, that he liked to say "joys and human stupidity are boundless." Today I'd fix it a little bit, and I'd say "demagics and universes are boundless." I must stress that I really support these targeted proposals. I also support the statement and the implementation of the Secretary of State. Why? Because of this proposal, not only in this area, but also in some others, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been presented or requested from Slovenian crafts since 2000 and, if I am not mistaken, has been presented. Unfortunately, he never found a place to debate in these benches and to support himself. There has always been an excuse that this matter cannot be settled until there are technical possibilities for doing so in Durs, which will ensure transparency of payments by various sub-contracts, supervision of payments and so on. That's what this is about, if I understand correctly, today. I therefore understand that this matter also needs to be effectively regulated systematically, as it will help us to have fewer jobs, fewer costs and lower administrative barriers for craftsmen and entrepreneurs. Indeed, many administrative obstacles have been removed, for this congratulations to the former Minister, Mr Virant, which we have also repeatedly stressed and made clear, but unfortunately this one has not been removed for these reasons. Another obstacle that could be removed and facilitated and reduced costs is very simple: in the Copyright and Related Rights Act. There we prayed that we could pay one bill to all the authors' organizations. Now we have three, four tomorrow, five tomorrow, as I can see, new. Nor was it possible here where I think it would be much easier than in this area where we are now. So I hope that we will truly systematically approach that we equip those who will supervise, control and be able to collect taxes on one account as soon as possible, so that we can settle this matter as soon as possible. It is not true that there will be no financial burden. It will be a financial burden for us to be able to make the necessary arrangements so that this can be done. I am sure and agree with the speakers that there is no doubt that there is a need to listen to the good and professional proposals made by the organisations, as well as by individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u147	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you. I will support the law that we propose in our parliamentary group, the amendments and amendments to the tax procedure law. The purpose of the adoption of this law or of these amendments is the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account and then within the state administration, to divide by the appropriate key to the places to which the funds must come. And the ministry or government in its opinion, which, of course, is negative - nothing new, could say, says that it is aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties, which is why it has also been defined as one of the measures to reduce administrative barriers in the programme of measures to remove administrative barriers in 2008 and 2009. I must tell you that you are already late in 2008, most of them in 2009, because when you arrive from your vacation, it will be possible to do something good for three months, which, given your speed, is not enough to make a difference. To speak to Durs, who, in fact, has in recent years been very successful in dealing with administrative obstacles as well, introduced electronic income, and something else, the state has devoted a number of resources to informing, improving the system, so that probably there is no wise excuse for not being able to do these things with a single ticket, we no longer have. And my colleague has already mentioned the prize that we have received for this, because probably also, given that Slovenia is small, that a smaller system is smaller than elsewhere, it is possible to adjust it faster, to change faster, to improve faster. After some time, we are even among the most innovative and probably should set ourselves some more ambitious goals in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Apparently, in this room, we're just two parties. That is to say those who are anti-birocrats and who somehow want to continue this debirocratisation, which has come to an intense halt in the previous term, and those who oppose it. These are now two groups of people who will now decide whether certain initiatives coming into the legislative process are appropriate or not. I must remind Madam Secretary of State that, in this case, we are only deciding whether the law is suitable for further consideration or not that the objectives are appropriate, that the principles are appropriate, that the fundamentals of the law are appropriate. You, interestingly, have attached all these matters to it on behalf of the Government. So you support initiatives that make sense to you, etc. However, when it is necessary to say so, to give a concrete position, you say you are proposing that the law be rejected. Interesting! Interesting! So, at the same time, all the basic solutions that we have submitted, which are summarised in accordance with the requirements of the Slovenian trade in 2008, make sense, while at the same time proposing to your coalition Members that they vote against. In the previous term, we have managed to carry out some difficult projects, probably more difficult than paying commitments to a single-account country. The income project is certainly a more difficult project than this because it concerns virtually all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all taxpayers, who are somewhat 10 times more or 100 times more than those who are bound by this law. And I think that with some kind of goodwill, with some approach, all these things can be settled. If we support this law, then we have all summer and probably still September time, that is to say three months to study or study all of those solutions in other laws that need to be corrected. Just as you are proposing amendments to the laws that are now coming to the budget law, there is probably no problem here that the Government would agree on all those matters that could possibly date-list for a day or two so that this is also feasible. I think that this would not be a problem and this is a very inappropriate excuse and shows only that the Government advocates administration, bureaucracy, but not solutions that improve the situation in this area. I'd like to warn you about that. In his introduction to Vizjak, when he said what contributions we are paying and he mentioned 9 contributions, some of which are paid and some of which are paid, of these nine contributions, given that it amounts to EUR 360 gross, four are where the amount or payment of the commission to the bank is higher than the amount of the remittance. The Republic's contribution to employment is 0.14% and is 1.90 euros per ticket. Parental care contribution 0,10 and 1,36 euros respectively. This is from pay, if paid, is a contribution to employment of 0.06% and 0.82 euros respectively and a contribution to parental protection of 0.10, that is 1.36 euros. The Virman we pay at the bank is 1.8 euros. It is said that we pay four contributions, an economic company pays or a private company pays four Virans, where the value of the transfer is lower than the commission paid to the bank. Specifically. Those who have €360 gross, that's already good wages, we can say, all those who know how to calculate it, mean at least the average wage, the average gross salary in Slovenia. I think that in all those craftsmen who have one, two employees, or they should make it possible for everyone to pay for one of these things, that makes sense. And if we give those five that are a little bit higher, there's nine of them. This is said to be our proposal for a law to reduce the number of positions by ten or nine times. This is certainly savings and I do not think there is any need to pay instead of paying because they pay for one Virman 1.80 euros when they pay contributions to pay sixteen, seventeen, eighteen euros. Why would we do this difference with, I don't know, forty-five thousand economic operators is worth it, just a bank commission at the annual level of about ten million euros. Ten million euros of commission to the bank because we have nine bills. There's more to those companies that have more bills and pay for other things. These are only contributions relating to salaries. I think that any reasonable authority should support the idea and should allow them to make or obtain all those involved in economic activity certain savings on both money and savings on time. For this fulfillment, whatever it is, requires a certain time. I estimate that the government should have so much wisdom to say that the law is appropriate because it follows principles. What will be the concrete solutions, and then we will resolve ourselves further.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. East Crossbow. [[He's not here.]] Would you like a word from the government? Madam Secretary of State - neither. Does he want a proposaler? Please, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In listening to both the presentation of the position of the groups of Members and Members, it is a good idea to conclude that you all agree with the objectives and the intention of this proposal, but of course there are different views on when and in what form this should be carried out. I must say that this proposal is not about any political idea or news at all. It's a simple technical-administrative solution that would probably make life easier for everyone. As I've heard, the main reasons are the bureaucratic-administrative nature. Not that, because there is no such data, there are no thirds, there is a whole set of solutions, such and different, in different laws, and it is difficult to solve and regulate. Then we heard a series of eyewitnesses, even the former president of the Chamber of Commerce, so that the previous government could do it and we could hear it as a record. If all matters in this country could be settled by one government in one term, then we would not need this current government, we would not need this Parliament and probably no one else, because everything would be arranged. Life in this country offers different challenges from year to year, new challenges. Some become a priority over a certain period, some are a priority over the past period. And the previous government has been dealing with bureaucratic obstacles, this OAO, the Operational Programme for the Elimination of Administrative Obstacles and the like, it has done and has not eliminated everything, and no one expects this current government to do 100 percent of all things because they are probably some tougher and harder nuts than they look. But something was done. Here was mentioned the award for E-vem or for the project All in one place, not to talk about many other prices and reducing bureaucratic difficulties for entrepreneurs. It's true, it wasn't done. It probably would have been right if it had been done, but it wasn't. However, it is not an excuse, Your Honor, for us not to deal more decisively with this hard nut now or perhaps only with the appearance of hard nuts. And that's a suggestion. The proposal is proposed on a regular basis. We have parliamentary holidays ahead of us. We'll meet in two months at a regular session. Then there'll be another reading if we let this law go forward. Until the second reading, if the unfortunate or happy commission that was appointed does not analyse the matter and submit proposals, then God help us. Therefore, I believe that the law is a suitable basis for further decision and follow-up and is an open possibility to address this issue. But there is also one fact, and I will say, I don't know if Mrs Kamnareva was or wasn't at the time, we were mostly sitting on a similar committee that was studying the project All in one place and where we also wanted to impose certain tasks or some removals of administrative obstacles on Durs. Durs’s countless insurrections were and did not want to hear anything, that something in this country should be simplified, that it was necessary to go against entrepreneurs and to make business and life easier. Only when, unfortunately, rougher receptions were used, not in a physical sense, but in a different sense, have some officials softened. The principle, unfortunately, is still an official's suggestion to find a hundred reasons why something cannot be done and to fight little or no suggestions on how an idea can be realized. And I fear that this unhappy or happy commission of officials that has been set up will come to this realization that it will list and write an elaboratory that no one will likely read from us on 10 or 20 pages, how it cannot be done. Otherwise, I'll be very positively surprised. Even in my past work in four years, I have come across countless such cases when I gave my co-worker at the Ministry a task and an assignment and they came to me very quickly, victoriously, with a smile and told me what could not be done and how this particular one could not be done and how this idea could be generally good, but impossible and, consequently, unacceptable. This is how we listen roughly to the explanation of why "no" to this proposal. That is why I believe that Parliament can eventually cut off this inappropriate and unproductive attitude of the official to the proposals to confirm the law in the first reading, to bring it forward to the procedure, to the second reading, and, of course, to commit ourselves at the same time, or the Government will make sure that it binds the commission to deliver the solutions at that time. We will gladly, probably, think about it and we will not, I would say, "work Cyrus" around, perhaps even rejecting this law later, if at the same time there is a proposal on how to do it systemically or comprehensively. And if this law causes this solution to happen at this time, then we have done what we wanted to do first. And I'm really sad when I listen to some people, I have to mention here, unfortunately, the former president of the Chamber of Commerce who's saying it's a political prestige, an advertisement, some, I don't know, a demagogy or something. It is a solution from which those whom he has recently represented will have something. That's how we can do it. However, we can reject all proposals or most of the opposition's proposals so far. By the way, you have rejected all the proposals of the eighty-sixies for an exit or to alleviate the consequences of this crisis. That was one, too. We repeat this in another form, because you were then told that it was not free in public finances to work, but in the tax process - we were working here again, it was wrong. From then on until today, you've done nothing but form a commission. So I can't help but get the feeling that "dogs bark, caravans go on," problems stay. Very positive and warm I will be surprised if in this particular case this will not be the case, but I did not get any assurance in what time the government will bring and come with a solution, if, "something works, we will see, study". Once again, it's a very technical-administrative regulation that talks about a common account, not some other thing, and probably some average official who wants to solve some thing will sort it out as quickly as possible. That's why I think we should focus on the content. We are the ones who are interested in and concerned about the content, because if we are for such a thing to be settled, then let us also make this clear to the executive branch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u153	All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm opening applications for the word. Please sign up. You will be given your word. Replica, Mr. Cloone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to take a call because I was named twice directly, although I did not mention Mr Visionak with anything before. I don't know why you're so insulted. If you step on your tail, it's gonna blow. We talked many times about certain things that were in the requirements of the Slovenian trade of administrative nature, but unfortunately there was often an excuse that this was technically impossible to do so for such and such reasons. Before I wanted to discuss this subject, I just wanted to point out that I fully support the elimination of all administrative obstacles that burden trade and small economies, which I have specifically stressed, but in the context of the whole solution, not partial, partial or not operationally feasible at the end, even if we write very nicely on paper. I therefore expect that, in accordance with the provision of the government representative, this problem, which in this type of problem and in this book, which I am pleased that you are reading, prepared by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, will be the most acute one, because they have been ranked differently and there are ten more important ones than this: but I support it because it eliminates a lot of problems that we have been warning craftsmen and entrepreneurs for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u155	Each debater has 5 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I'll be shorter. I do not intend to repeat myself, but Mr Cloone started his debate on this bill to read the rivers and that he also observed one which, I don't know who, among other things, "human stupidity has no limits" and then upgraded it by saying that "human demagogy has no boundaries." So when he was talking about this law, he was talking about demagogy and demagogy without borders. And I reacted to those words in the context that I am, not in the context that he has just replicated to me. I am pleased that, with most of the other, Mr Cloone also agrees. Once again, I believe that it is true that all governments, including the previous government, refer to the many problems they face in carrying out their tasks in order to implement the various measures. It is also the former and also the case in this particular measure. Not to talk about other measures! And I also know that such a proposal can make possible additional efforts, activities that are for some, even those that need to do so, then dislike, hate to take over and act. That's why they're running away from them, and that's why they're making everything up. At the same time, however, I think that we are Members who can say something and if we are united that such a measure is good, among other things, it is in the requirements of Slovenian craftsmanship, so we are not only assessing that it is good, but, above all, it is assessed by those to whom it is intended - it is small entrepreneurs and craftsmen - then we support it and give it time to the government, now it is ideal to arrange it. And under the regular procedure, this can be regulated in October, when, say, the third reading of this law, because in September it will be second and so on. If the government comes to a better solution at this time, of course, we will all be happy. But obviously someone needs a clear message. If, today or Wednesday, when we vote on this, we support the conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration, you will probably also confirm that there is little hurry with this solution, and that, as I said, "the dogs will bark and the caravan will go on." That's not what we want. I believe that there is a real effort to do something about it, as with some other things. Here was presented the project to E-vem, where it was very similar. It took a whole bunch of things to give. Some had to agree that they would not keep their own records, but that they would be available to others, or at least parts of them, and I know that it was a "whole circus" and that not everyone had to report, but only one - it was always a big problem. And we also face a similar problem and the same people, probably. Once again, let us take one step further as far as this mentality is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u157	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Your Honor! As far as I can remember, ten years ago, maybe more than a year ago, in that government we had, or maybe even two, the Secretary of State in charge of removing bureaucratic barriers. She was a secretary. As far as I can remember, that person had quite a few ideas about ending these bureaucratic obstacles, but somehow there was no understanding within the government. So there's not much of a war. Well, at least I don't remember anything going on. It's probably a trifle, but it wasn't the secretary or the secretary of state's fault, it was probably the atmosphere that was in the government at the time regarding the removal of bureaucratic barriers. This is said to have been a very strong verbal enthusiasm, but when it came to concreteization, there was no enthusiasm. That reminds me a lot, and that's why I also remembered this, with the current government: it's about fighting tycunization, and at the previous point they were just saying when we should do something concrete when it comes to state guarantees for such loans, and we stopped there. What am I trying to say? At that time, not much has been done with the Secretary of State to remove bureaucratic obstacles. Today we have listened to why the things we are talking about at this point have not already been done by the previous government. Yes, hello! If I may remind you what was done in the previous term to remove bureaucratic barriers under the leadership, say, Dr. Virant. I think that, too -- I don't think so, I'm sure -- that New York award that this government won goes to Dr. Virant. I'm glad we got it. In doing so, we have at least proved that the Slovenians can also do something about the removal of bureaucratic barriers. We were recognized as the best in the field of registration, I think companies - besides the rest. This is said to have been done enormously in the previous government, so do not say why the former government has not yet done so. In every measure proposed and we have defended it, like the Members of the majority at the time, you have had a lot of comments. I'm not gonna say another word. What you've been doing, how it's not possible, how it doesn't work, how it doesn't go with just one step, etc.! Now you're talking about why that government hasn't done yet. That's not gonna work. And now I'm going to give a concrete example of the demagogies that we've heard about. My friend Tanko mentioned his contributions. There are 9 contributions and of these there are four, fewer contributions than just a payment for that credit card, let's say, if it goes through the bank. And, folks, if we go a little further in this mathematics, then we can figure out that if we put this on one virman, even if we put it on two, but let's say, if we put it on one, let's say we would save 15 euros, we would save more. But 15 is because it's a more round number and it's easier to count. If we save 15 euros from one craftsman or those who have to do it, let's say that 50,000 of those who have to do it on a monthly basis are going to be €750,000 per month. But this amounts to €9 million per year. I admit that now this 9 million euro, whoever collects this fee, would not have it. That's right. But who do we want to make it easier? Does the entrepreneur who works to get less work pay less or someone else to serve at that expense? And now, if we multiply this by 12 months, then every year, like I said, 9 million euros. Now, if I don't remember, yesterday was an up-to-date number for Mura, 5 million euros that the state won't give. At the expense of a bureaucratic barrier, we'd have two months, two months for Mura, five million each month, and one month for these Virans. Now I ask you, is this demagogy? No demagogies, those are numbers! These are the numbers, and we are talking about this, and we are saying that such a law should be supported, as we have proposed, and we are continuing what the previous government has started, of course, cannot do everything, but you would exactly show that something is up to you to simplify procedures, and to allow people, specifically craftsmen, those who have to pay so much, less bureaucratic obstacles. There are numbers here, and you can't get past that. You can't do that, you can count whatever you want, I'm sure you'll come up with more savings. [[...]] That is why I support such a law and I propose that you support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - First draft of the Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 15 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Mr Tank, to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We have a short novel ahead of us, with one substantive article. With this change, we particularly want to accelerate the composition of agricultural land. Not only do we have a sub-average share of agricultural areas per capita in Slovenia compared to some European Union countries, we also have disproportionately small farms, unadjusted modern and commercially successful production. To make the problem even bigger, these small farms are made up of a large number of small scattered plots, which further impedes the use of modern technology devices and machines. Since rational use of these areas is not possible, farm owners are increasingly deciding to abandon farming. The issue is particularly problematic because the decision to leave farming is made by young people who do not take over farms and seek opportunities elsewhere where the path to bread is easier, simpler and more predictable. It should be said that in Slovenia it falls annually between 1,000 and 3,000 farms. Most of these agricultural areas remain in the desert, which means that these areas are no longer used for agricultural production, and this also means that the landscape, the cultural landscape, is growing, and this also has some serious consequences. First of all, there's a beast problem, there's a rural festivities problem, because those who are supposed to be farmers have taken over farms, they're looking for jobs elsewhere, and they're day-to-day migrants, and then they're actually emigrants, and if they're lucky, then they only use their rural facilities for weekends. In short, if we want to do anything good in the countryside, if we want to make rational use of it, allow for the rounding of agricultural areas, if we want to preserve at least those farms and those areas where the interest in farming is, then it is essential that this part is released. The fragmentation of agricultural areas is also largely due to decisions following World War II. This was due to the introduction of the Earth's maximum. Now we need a different direction, now we need an economic minimum. That is to say, the farm must have so many surfaces that some culture can be grown economically that those who do so can survive from it. There was also a lot of dissipation and so on. Since all these rural processes do not run normally, things do not normally structure, there are also many undistributed farms, and a lot of co-ownership and a commotion process is such that clean property is also created in this process. This is said to mean that everything that comes out of the coma is no longer burdened with rations, we no longer have five, seven, nine owners on the same plot, but we get out clean units that also allow sales and other forms of leases and so on. In this process, a greater term of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests may also be made available, as land is involved in these processes, purchases land, assists in the process of composting, assists in the work of compositions and thus allows these surfaces to be designed differently to become so large that it is possible to process machinery. This also increases, after all, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, in the parliamentary group, we expect the bill to receive support for the follow-up process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law on agricultural land or amendments and additions. We appreciate the support of the Slovenian Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber for amending the law. The Chamber, which is certainly competent to assess such and similar proposals, also supports easier and more acceptable conditions for the implementation of the comitology procedures, i.e. the reduction of the prescribed 80% to 67% of the area for the consent of the owners in the envisaged area of comitology. The reasons for amending the law are fully justified. It is clear to each of us that the fragmentation and smallness of Slovenian farms are extremely critical. Many agricultural experts also believe that the surface structure and fragmentation of the property are one of the biggest problems of Slovenian agriculture. Given the specific natural positions and the large fragmentation of agricultural areas, it is essential to promote and simplify the comitology procedures. Commissions are defined and regulated by several laws, including the Law on the regulation of premises, the Law on the Registration of Real Estates, the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Rules on the Implementation of the Agricultural Lands Commission and so on. The purpose of amending the law is also good and meaningful. Therefore, by amending and harmonising the law on the regulation of premises in the field of comassations, it is easier to introduce and implement the comitology procedures. These changes also fall in some way into rural development policy, which implements measures adopted and subordinated to the 2007-2013 rural development programme. Let me just remind you that this programme implements 21 actions within the 4 priority axes over a seven-year period. So: improved competitiveness, conservation of the environment and natural resources, improvement of quality of life in rural areas, strengthening local and development initiatives and technical assistance. In the Slovenian National Party, we see more favourable bargaining conditions and measures as an important contribution to the implementation of rural development policy. Finally, it is also a question of the extent of agricultural production, which has been stagnant since 2000 as a result of the natural conditions that have changed significantly in recent years. As you know, the volume of agricultural production in 2008 was 4% lower than in the previous year and, above all, plant production decreased. That's 8%. In this regard, too, the issue of comassations is a very relevant issue. In recent years the area of agricultural land in use has been around 500,000 hectares, with a slight trend in the increase in land areas over recent years and, on the other hand, the decrease in the area of permanent crops mainly due to the abandonment of agricultural orchards. However, these indicators are only a general feature in the Slovenian agricultural area. The fragmentation and non-treatment of agricultural areas in the Pomur region and especially in Goričko and Prekmurje are particularly critical. So in a region I know well and I am very concerned about the situation. As I have already mentioned, the aim of rural development policy is to put in place appropriate measures to increase the competitiveness and effectiveness of agricultural producers in support of the development of the agricultural, processing and market organisation industries, as well as in the general development of rural areas and the proposed amendments or additions to the law in order to ensure more favourable conditions for the implementation of comassations are indeed a reasonable and good measure. Also in 2008 land operations used the budget for the rehabilitation of unfinished comassations. Support for new comassations is being implemented in the 2007-2013 programming period under the first axis of the rural development programme, as already mentioned in the introductions. In the framework of the programme for the rehabilitation of incomplete comassations, compensation and procedural costs have already been paid on the basis of positive complaints addressed to the participants in the commission. Even so in thought, honourable Members and Members. Certain administrative works were also carried out, which were essential for the entry of comassations into the land book, and other technical and technical works such as expert opinions, geodetic measurements and so on. In 2007, a single information base was created, a test filling was carried out, a database was successfully entered so that all the conditions can be met to carry out a comprehensive database project for the information sites. So, let me finish. The proposed amendment of the law will only speed up and facilitate the successful implementation of the necessary comassation procedures, and to this end we will support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u164	Hello! Slovenia already, I think we all know that, has very small farms, and these small farms also have inappropriate ownership structures, because they are mostly made up of a large number of small plots. The reasons for such a peculiar structure are - I think - we are also well-known and know that they have been born since the beginning or end of World War II, when the amount of land was introduced in Slovenia. Until then, Slovenian farms were comparable to farms in Austria, and since then, due to the first land maxim, then the arrondissements of large holdings, and also because of the inheritance that happened after, and the law has not prevented the further fragmentation of small farms. We also know that in these years, when the conditions for agricultural development were very poor, and only in the 1970s, 80s of the previous century, the willingness of the country appeared, on the one hand, and on the other, the very real need to begin the commotion in the Slovenian space. In the second half or in the mid-80s, I started my job as an agronomist at Agrocombinate Krško, and I was one of those who in the 1980s successfully put together over 50,000 comassesses in the Slovenian space. Once again, through independence and through the process of denationalisation, this necessary process of concentration or enlargement, of pooling these parcels, has been rejected, at the same time in the 1990s, in my deep belief, and again in Slovenia, there is a false hope that those who have lost their jobs and own at home have 5,6 hectares of agricultural land that it is possible for them to generate income on these farms. That is why this process has stopped and I think it is time that we do something in this area. The decline in the number of farms in Slovenia is a process that has been going on in recent years. I do not see so much bad in this process, but it will be bad if these farms fail and the land grows. We also know different processes, processes that speak in that the ownership structure of these farms, which have larger holdings, and at least today can at least roughly mate in the agricultural field, so that the number of these farms will increase, and I think that in farms that will find for a few hectares in the future that farming due to this smallness will no longer be paid off, that they have the task or have the opportunity to have so-compressed parcels then also easier or sell or rent those who are still engaged in agriculture. These small, fragmented, inappropriate plots are growing many times precisely because those who are seriously involved in agricultural production are simply not interesting. I am also aware of this problem in detail, including the Committee on Agriculture and Food, Forestry and the Committee on the Environment, which held a joint meeting on 13 May in the Posavia area, and took note of this issue of land-based resources, as we have also taken note of the project of hydroelectric power plant of the Lower Sava, which is planned for irrigation, which is foreseen, and also of the prospective sector of fruit production. And it is the municipal administration of the municipality of Krško that has made the proposal now proposed by the SDS Group as one of the proposals for amending the Agricultural Lands Act. Therefore, I am very pleased that this proposal is now before us and that, in my opinion, we can also separate it from each other, and this area of commotion and the easier acceptance of the area of commotion and performance. Within the framework of the rural development programme, the power to use European funds is also available for auctions, but many times the problem is that you want to get 80% of what is now legislation, the area. As I have already said, we are practically engaged in this in our environment. And what's most tragic is that you are often hampered by this viciousness by those who no longer deal with agriculture absolutely, but mainly by various speculative purposes with these lands for any change of destination, for the sale of these lands or the like. This proposal itself and, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support and hope that it will not be one of those laws that is good, but will wait for the Government to propose this proposal. I am firmly convinced that it is right to accept this as soon as possible, because every commotion that we will do two months earlier will be important for the development of Slovenian agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have a very interesting law ahead of us, which is very much needed, so that the proportion of the surfaces we regulate in the comassation, where we get the 80% consent, which is too much, is reduced to 67%, and then all the big stories are over. As if it were not known that already in coalition coordination there is a law on agricultural land, which, of course, in addition to this important little thing, solves a number of other issues and will also solve them. Therefore, this percentage change, which has been known in the ministry for a long time and has apparently reached someone who has made the law a little faster, is not opposed. But the story is about the same as if someone said he had a lock, but he has no key, no door, no building to put it in. But let's get to the point. In order to produce food, feed we need agricultural land. This is clearly a simple fact that our predecessors have already been aware of much more and more than we have and treated agricultural land appropriately. By industrialising and deacgrating our society, the attitude towards agricultural land has changed radically. We have built agricultural land, especially after the independence of Slovenia, and they disappear along the best roads, along the largest cities, where municipal zones, shopping centres, as if there were no other, better ones in those municipalities, for agriculture of less important areas. In Slovenia, there is also a policy that we must have our own congregation from each local community and that, of course, every congregation also wants and thinks it needs a communal zone. Since I come from Gorenjska, of course where the best potatoes used to grow, between Kranj, Shenchure and Cerkljam, there are, of course, commercial centres, agricultural and trade zones and more on the best surfaces. Therefore, statistics are also surprising only to strangers. Since independence, Slovenia and Slovenia have managed to spend about 100,000 hectares of the best agricultural areas, about 62,000 hectares, and 40,000 hectares of them have been built. Therefore, the continuation of statistics is, of course, surprising to strangers. We Slovenians have landed on 800 square metres of processing surfaces, which means that if, in a black scenario in which we do not believe otherwise, logistics paths stop and the crisis deepens, we simply cannot supply ourselves; or in other words, we will be hungry. Statistics say that the average of European countries there is about 2,000 square metres per capita for solid self-sustainment should be 2 000 400 meters per capita. You will probably not believe that Luxembourg, which is an urbanised country, is known for other matters than Slovenia, has significantly more agricultural areas than we Slovenians. That is why, of course, we are concerned at the Liberal Democracy Club about these facts, and we have also participated in the signing of a coalition treaty that clearly defines this government's policy, which is already in force. We have highlighted it in our electoral programme and have also advocated an early legal intervention in these markedly negative trends in agricultural land. One of the important measures in this area is for sure the composition of agricultural areas, which rounds the land and thus improves the spatial structure of Slovenian agricultural land. This makes farms more, more comparable, more competitive. This is good, and it is certainly a good aim for the law-makers to do so. And yet, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore support all the changes that go in this direction of acceleration and simplification of comassations. Therefore, we also agree with the pardoning of the land surface condition that those landowners in the envisaged area of comassation who agree with the Commission must have. The problem of the proposed law, however, is that the legal text changes only the required area of land, i.e. the percentage, but does not change some other articles which, of course, are still obstructing and hindering the comassation. And if we change the percentage, and even to this in the LDS Club, we can easily attach, of course, some substantial interference in the field of comassation will not occur, but there will be accelerations in this area by amending the whole agricultural land law, which will - I think this week, which is coming - also coalitionly coordinated and goes into public inter-resortation, which has already happened with the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. There will, of course, also be other matters, the preliminary order of tenants and the beneficiaries. Above all, I am pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Space and Environment, is also leading a restrictive policy in the field of urbanisation, that scattered buildings, except in exceptional cases, will no longer be supported, that spatial plans on the one hand are very complicated and are slowly changing due to the decisive role of the Ministry of Agriculture. Simply, all together, the positions and opposition are given the task of making this area more specific in Slovenia. I also see another dissatisfaction in this law in the fact that it is clearly an inconsistent copy of the same solution from the work draft of the new Agricultural Lands Act, which, of course, will resolve the whole matter. In view of the fact that, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the substantive aspect of the solution presented by the bill is supported, and given the fact that it is an obvious plagiarism of the provisions of the emerging new law on agricultural land, the LDS Members will decide whether the bill is suitable for further consideration, decide, as always, on their own conscience and judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act, tabled in the procedure by the SDS Group of Members, reduces the percentage of agricultural land owners who agree with the introduction of the comassation procedure from 80% to 67%. In the Group of Social Democrats, we find that the Group of Members has copied the content of the article contained in the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and we have it in coalition coordination. It is clear, however, that they are inconsistent in this respect, since the reduction in the percentage of owners who agree to the Commission is a small measure, but of course one of the necessary measures to accelerate land integration is not sufficient and, in practice, this change alone will not have the desired effect. We will therefore support the consideration and adoption of a government proposal for a law that will also remove other procedural obstacles, which are necessary if we are aware that in Slovenia we are facing a reduction in the volume of processed agricultural land. Research shows that between 2002 and 2007, we lost 7 hectares of agricultural land per day. Furthermore, in a state in Slovenia we find that land remains out of economic function, as the volume of agricultural land growing does not decrease. Today, there are some 2,600 hectares of agricultural land growing. We also note that the process of transport with agricultural land, forests, farms and the process of leasing agricultural land takes place for a very long time and is extremely complex for all participants. The fragmentation of properties in Slovenia is exceptional because we have about 3 million agricultural and forest plots, which of course confirms the strong fragmentation of ownership. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that we need an effective land policy, which Slovenia has obviously not had so far and with the agricultural land law, which is coordinated in the coalition, we want to remove all administrative obstacles or a large part of the administrative obstacles that prevent effective land policy and also the implementation of comassations. Indeed, we note that the law that we are considering today also does not take into account the amendment of certain other legislation, which must be taken into account if you want to carry out the auctions effectively. Thus, it is a matter of amending the law on spatial planning, registering property, geodetic activity, environmental protection, construction of buildings; in short, a whole series of regulations must be taken into account before the legal text is introduced into the legislative procedure, which would in practice represent a significant progress in the efficiency of merging fragmented parcels. All this proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members does not contain, so in the Group of Social Democrats we believe that the law under consideration is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u170	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the light of Article 56 of the Agricultural Lands Act, a proposal for the introduction of a comassation procedure may be submitted if the Commission is agreed by the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 80% of the land area in the envisaged area. However, in accordance with the Law on the regulation on the regulation on land destruction in the area of the municipal site plan, landowners holding at least 67% of the land area in the area of the comassation may submit a proposal for the introduction of the comsation. It is clear that there are illogical and, in practice, important differences that we are trying to resolve with the proposal of the amendment of the law by choosing a lighter and, above all, a more viable solution for the owners of agricultural land. All data show that in Slovenia the fragmentation and smallness of farms is extremely critical, as is also pointed out by agricultural experts and farmers who face this problem in practice. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of many initiatives, we have decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a new Law on Agricultural Lands, which sought to comply with the Law on the regulation of premises in the field of comassation, by proposing to facilitate the introduction of a comassation procedure. A proposal for the introduction of a commotion procedure may be submitted if the Commission agrees with the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 67% of the land area in the envisaged area. What's a commotion, anyway? The Law on the Regulation of Space of the concept of comassation defines as "a compound of land in the area of the envisaged municipal site plan and their redistribution among landowners in the area." The Real Estate Registration Act defines the property as "a compound of plots which have different administrative status with regard to property rights and distribution by structure of the created land fund to new parcels." According to the Agricultural Lands Act, agricultural land is subject to comassation, but also forests, unwalled buildings and other plots in the area of comassation and installations on those lands. The agricultural parcel is regulated in more detail by the rules on the implementation of the agricultural plots. In these times, it may not be negligible that the implementation of the proposed law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources. Again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress that the law, supported by Members and Members, will have positive effects on agricultural policy, which is also pointed out by the agri-economic chamber supporting the amendment of the law. As we know that this is a large, broad and diversified membership, we propose that other parliamentary groups decide to support the law. An additional reason for the support of the law is the system for the introduction of commissions in the countries of the European Union. In all countries where agricultural land is being slaughtered, the Commission shall be supported by appropriate legislation which introduces an approach which introduces the prescribed participation in the Commission by law. Voluntary comassations have become economically ineffective and too long-term, and the possibility of a failure is always high. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Agricultural Lands, which regulates the facilitation and, above all, a more viable solution to the imposition of the comassation process. We also trust the support of all other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands in the DeSUS Group in such a form. Otherwise, we understand and agree with the aim of the amendment referred to by the applicant, but the Government is preparing a law on amendments and additions to the agricultural land law, which will simplify, inter alia, the procedure for the introduction of commissions and the submission of the necessary materials. At the same time, the proposal reduces the threshold for the introduction of the comassation, from 80% to 67%, as provided for by the Space Regulation and the Rules on the execution of the comsation. At the same time, it will bring some other solutions that are very important for the further management of agricultural land and consequently for the development of local communities. For this reason, we join the Government's view that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Tanko, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u174	I want a word on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to answer or reply to some of the statements from the views of certain parliamentary groups. In fact, it is not entirely regulated that this is like some kind of plagiarism of a government proposal that we do not actually find at the best of will. I must say that we have proposed this amendment to the law because there are major problems in some of the environments where there are commotions. Even in my congregation there are currently three or four comassions, and in fact the problem of consensus building is mainly because there are many inactive owners in this area. As has already been said, many of these owners do not show any necessary interest in anything in the field of parcel structure. I must say that the claims that we copied anything from any government proposal are malicious and offensive. We did not receive any draft law, no invitation to participate in the parliamentary group to amend the agricultural land law. So we're not even informed of what's going on in the government. I am so much more surprised by this claim because we tabled the bill in the legislative procedure on June 10th, it is said, a month ago. Earlier, however, colleague Saiovic spoke about the position of the Group of Members that in fact you have nothing in common and that this will only be mediated in the absence of a procedure and a public presentation of opinions. It's probably not appropriate to talk about these things in that way. However, if this is actually an agricultural issue and even agricultural policy, then I would expect a minister or a competent secretary of state to sit here, but none of the competent persons from the Ministry who are required to participate in the work of the National Assembly by the Rules of Procedure are here. Another problem is that it is interesting that the Ministry or Government does not have the time announced to deal with this law, anywhere, not in the previous treatment of parliamentary groups, not in the debate. That's very strange, to say the least. If this is as important a solution as you have stressed, in spite of everything in the positions of the parliamentary groups, then I would expect the ministry representative to be competently involved in the debate, so that we will also face up to our views and discuss the proposed solution in this law. However, we have already gotten used to it, in our parliamentary group, that you all support the intentions of the law, that you all support good solutions and ideas, that you are all ready to support good solutions and ideas. We have already gotten used to this, which is what we are today in these laws, which are in fact part of the reform package, including the package, we can say, reforms in the resolution of the economic crisis, and at least those that we have dealt with before, we can say that we only hear these principled support. However, at a time when it is necessary to say and decide that this principled support is to be translated into the continuation of the legislative procedure, and once you have the will, this intention, this well-intention, is no longer. It's gone. And I also have to say that I'm actually surprised that the only thing we're dealing with today is that we didn't get a change from the government. There is no written opinion of the government. We have received the Government's written position, so to the Tax Procedure Act, we have received from a law imposing some kind of payment of obligations for domestic and artistic trade, here in this law, to the guarantee scheme, to this law of the Government's position, and it is interesting that one in the position of the parliamentary groups referred to the Government's position, but it is not attached in writing and it has not been said orally and no working body of this bill has yet been discussed since we have a general discussion. This says a lot about accession, about the concept, about well-intention, about the intensity of the coalition to participate in the National Assembly, and also about matters that mean solving some problems. Here you also fully deny the opinion and position of the Prime Minister, who is here repeatedly, for this speaker, clearly stated that the coalition would support all the opposition's good proposals. Today we have been hearing about good opposition proposals, good law-making, good law-making solutions, and every position of the coalition that we have heard today is negative about the support and the continuation of the law. Even for that. Today, we speak and decide and decide only whether the objectives of the law are appropriate or whether the intent of the law is right or right. What still needs to be decorated, a respected coalition, you will be able to decorate. In this law, in these two articles, which are open, you will also be able to propose your own law and assign to it matters that you think still need to be settled. As far as the order of things is concerned, you will probably also allow other purchases of agricultural land, but for those who did not have the status of a farmer, and you will also be able to round up your parcel business there. I would expect the coalition to take the words of its Prime Minister seriously. That when he says that there is an intention, there will be a solution that is good, and today we are talking in this general debate only about supporting this issue then. It is extremely twofold and unfair that you have all said that the intensities of the laws that we have proposed today are good, that the solutions are good, that the directions are right, that they solve the problems, and in the last sentence of the positions of the members of the groups, all of them in turn say that the proposals of the law for continuation of the procedure will not be supported, one, two, three, four, by all of us today. Interesting. What are we talking about? It's "personal" or it's two-faced. It's probably something else. I think that in these actions, in these big words that we hear in the National Assembly, we should be able to combine the minimum physical effort and the thought that you said with the decision on these three keys that we have before us. This is a minimum, and I think that a responsible coalition could easily do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u177	Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Replica, Mr. Mag. Saiovic, although you have not yet discussed, you have given your position to the Group of Members and you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Well, since I've been named and there's not gonna be any serious trauma this weekend, this time I'm gonna press the button like it's supposed to. I support the purpose of this law, and I will also express it by doing so, especially because in Slovenia there are some commotional procedures open and that we will also give a signal from this place to people that this will happen, that if they get 67% of the land, they will be able to do what is wise, necessary and useful. We have talked a lot about agricultural land policy, but above all here I think that agricultural inspection should also be carried out, especially as regards agriculture. Certain areas grow on their own, certain, and others, which are agricultural, pasture, meadow, and many even abandoned fields, are deliberately and purposely afforested. It is also important to note the agricultural inspection, the mayors in the municipalities and someone else, of course, to do what they are obliged to do - to inform the relevant structures of irregular interventions to the premises, but of course they must act. Poor policy, poor land conditions are even on some not only on some of which many parcels of the agricultural land and forests fund. I think we need to make order in this area first, and therefore I am glad that they are changing in the package of both laws, the Law on Funding and the Law on Agricultural Lands. And I am convinced that the solutions that will be presented, like this, must not have a position or opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is so clear that food and food processing is one of the fundamental strategic content of each national economy, so we are also aware of it here in Slovenia. On the contrary, it is a very worrying fact that from day to day, from year to year, we are losing quality agricultural areas. As has already been said today, two thousand to two thousand square meters is needed by the population to supply food, and in our country, I think, this square is smaller from year to year. And today, I think there's about a thousand square meters around here. This is because cities and villages are growing intensively to build the best agricultural land, to grow good farms that have been giving products and products before yesterday, to finally bring about climate change, which from year to year, to show their unfriendly face over time, and to prevent those agricultural areas, which are already one or the other, from producing those foods that are strategically important to us. I have great respect for the proposers and for the proposal to amend the Agricultural Lands Act, as we have heard many of these proposals today, but in this case we must certainly listen to the Government and ensure that the Government thinks to a comprehensive extent that it will resolve the issues that have been in all these proposals today, as well as now in this proposal on agricultural land. I'm sure the proposaler is well-intentioned. I would not look at the outcome of any of their proposals in such a disillusionment, even in the case of the negative outcome of the vote, we must be aware that a very important issue has been raised, a substantive issue has been raised, and in this way an intervention and process, which will continue at the Ministry of Agriculture either in the Government and will eventually receive one important epilogue for us. That is why I would say at this point that I am grateful for such initiatives, as probably a lot of us here, that certainly the Agricultural Act requires broader and more complex treatment. I am convinced that the Commission's proposal for a correction in this work is necessary and fully covered by the amendment of the whole law and that there are likely to be other things added here that will in some way help to put agriculture at the level we want to avoid this negative trend that we are achieving today. Not only is the Law on Agricultural Lands, but it is probably a lot of other content that is embedded in other laws, in different or other laws. And I'm sure that's what's coming. Let me end by saying that as mayor of one municipality, which is certainly also trying to build, unfortunately, good agricultural land, then the Ministry of Agriculture will give very quickly negative guidelines, so it will prevent them from doing so until we get quality land that is equivalent, where agricultural production can continue. So, I see that the Ministry of Agriculture also has an active agricultural policy to look after an agricultural fund that is not to be reduced by such and other interventions. Let me conclude by not just drawing on European resources, European money for rural development, promoting and strengthening, regulating village nuclei and all that, in rural areas such as our Koroška, it will prevent people from moving from these remote places and remote villages to stay on farms, to process them and to help ensure that the agricultural land fund in Slovenia does not shrink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Our colleague Bogovic made it clear in the opinion of the Group that we support this change of law. I think that the debate on this has been held a long time ago on the Committee on Agriculture, where they have also found that something needs to be done in this area. I am well aware of the cases where certain meliorations have already been made, which have already been agreed upon to follow up on the consequences of, of course, the destruction or composition of individual land, and to this end, for various reasons, and in particular because of the lack of sufficient consent of the owners, not all landowners have come to this final objective. The fact is that, I will not say too much democracy or too much consensus for each type of work, such as a commotion, I don't know, is a similar matter in the possibility of maintaining multi-habitation buildings; to mention only two cases, that the excessive level of consent of all owners is often impossible not only to live normal lives, but, above all, those procedures that are necessary for some process of improvement or agricultural land or on the other hand, as I have mentioned, of the housing or other fund to continue this process of improvement. This is, of course, too much democratisation. In order not to mention, in the opinion of the Group of Members, that, given that we support this amendment of the law, I should also say that I will also support this proposal in this first reading and that it is possible, as some colleagues have already said, to upgrade these articles with some other necessary additions or corrections and eventually to put them into systemic ones, as is always the case. This is not the fabric of the current coalition, even in the previous coalition, this expression has been repeatedly used when the solution is good, but we are preparing a system law. That's what happens at the next point. What we broke up at the meeting yesterday, period, is about the same excuse again. The solution is good, but we are preparing a systemic solution that will also include it and so on and oh and ah and everything will be great. Those who say that, of course, must also be aware of that. And I'm aware of that, too. We used to use this in some other coalition. However, you have criticized the previous term on all the miles higher if anyone has ever said it, and now you are using it to your advantage. I'm a little sorry, but well, obviously that's life. So, as it is said, I will support this part, that is, this law, also in the government, in the coalition, but it is on all of us that, if we do it in the majority, we will all, and for the second reading of this article or for the two articles, we will also correct or supplement it accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The text is by Mr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I come from an area where the issue of commotion is a particularly important issue. It was also in the past, it is today and there is still a mission for tomorrow. However, I have asked for the opinion of quite a number of experts, as well as of the specific owners of agricultural land, including those who have smaller and also those who have slightly larger parcels and what I will say, I will say mainly on the basis of their views, because I am not an expert in this regard. But I would like to point out one thing before that. I was also surprised to learn that I did not see a government opinion here in this marriage. In fact, I really didn't know that the government was already coordinating the text of a similar law. It's probably self-evident in the coalition, but we don't all have first-hand information, so I'm going to say that I came to this law specifically for substantive reasons, and in this case, the substantive reason is to improve the conditions of the commotion. All those who have been asked by my side or the side of my office have responded positively and firmly, in the sense that this proposal, which otherwise solves this issue in just one segment, is very welcome. This has been said by the agronomists, i.e. experts, as I have already pointed out, as well as owners of agricultural land. In short, I must stress this and I believe that, although this is a partial question, it is certainly not bad if this matter is being settled. However, if there is actually a new comprehensive text of the amendment of the law within a very short period of time, I think that this proposal can still be supported at this time. As regards the issue of the whole issue of agricultural land and the Agricultural Land Fund, there are many open issues. I myself mention the size of protected farms, which is very tender and touches on everyone who deals with the profitability of agriculture from a long-term perspective. So there are a lot of things that we should be handling. However, I think that if, on the basis of any provision of this law, we are able to regulate a relatively small proportion of the land still in need of comassation, this is also welcome. If the legislative situation is different, it is also acceptable. In short, at this point, I will support this proposal, because I don't know the other one and I don't see it, especially on the basis of those arguments and those positions that I have received directly from those who are experts or landowners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Alan Bukovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. I particularly welcome Mrs Bukovchev's Secretary of State, who was previously deliberately or unintentionally undetected by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as well as by colleagues and colleagues! Batch fragmentation and smallness is a major problem in the territory of almost all of Slovenia, including the cultivation of processing areas and the abandonment of rural areas. However, is it not unreasonable to expect that this problem will only solve the simplification of the commotion procedures? The proposal to introduce a commotion procedure should show that the signed owners own at least 67% of the land area in the area of the Commission instead of the previous 80. It is true that the Government has foreseen an amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act in its work programme for the following year. However, the proposal to amend the Law on Agricultural Lands has already been drafted this year, at the same time as the amendment of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. They're both about to go into interdisciplinary coordination. The amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, prepared by the Government, will be more extensive and thorough than the proposal we have on the table. I find that this is a proposal that falls within the category of statistics. This means that, at the end of this term, this composition of the National Assembly, the opposition will demonstrate even more clearly how it was willing to help with the proposed laws, and the position by the voting machine has voted them out. However, in this category, the statistics should be placed between competent and non-competent. I believe that this proposal belongs to the others. I also believe that this is a literal copy of article 56 of the draft new law, i.e. the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, the third paragraph being prepared by the Comprehensive Government of the Republic of Slovenia and being prepared simultaneously with the amendment of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. At this point, it would be unfair to talk about how this text has sailed to the applicants, but I have the feeling that the proposal has also been put into procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to a change in the work of one article, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a comprehensive solution to the Agricultural Lands Act, they have again stolen some time and, above all, money from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that we lack quality land, especially land that is not fragmented, because one of the main problems of Slovenian agriculture is this unpleasant ownership structure or fragmentation of Slovenian farms. This is due to both historical influence and past wrong agricultural policies. The process of mixing agricultural land, which must, of course, be supported by appropriate legislation, must be continued so that Slovenian agriculture can be at least partially comparable to agriculture in the European Community. Since the Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands is merely to comply with the Law on the regulation of premises in the field of composting, I see no reason not to support the percentage of land required for the introduction of the commotion procedure. The draft law provides that a proposal for the imposition of a commotion procedure may be submitted if the Commission agrees with the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 67% of the area in the envisaged area of the Commission instead of the previous 80%. I do not expect this article to solve all the problems and problems, but if there are no other professional reservations on the part of, say, agricultural experts, this amendment to the law in the first reading applies to support and may be upgraded further. I'm in favour of this change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Today we have listened to lamenting the cruelty of this coalition because it does not want any of the laws proposed by the opposition to adopt or attach to their good intentions. Good intentions are certainly in place, but they say that the path of good intentions can lead to hell as well, but not in relation to these laws, this must be acknowledged. Of course, it is known that coalition coordination is not carried out with the opposition, it never is, and I don't know why it would be a special exception to me. However, it is really strange that we have started to get acquainted with the content of the Agricultural Lands Act in the coalition for the first time, with the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Agricultural Lands Act, which is quite extensive, and found that there is also an article in this law that appears in your proposal. And not only is this article, but even the number you're offering is 67% exactly the same as that of the proposal made by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Isn't that strange? It all shows that we have not sent you to the National Assembly of Marriage or that the Government has not sent it to you, and I believe it, and I know it is. Even so, I can tell you that the first version of the law came into the hands of coalition Members dealing with the area of agriculture, forestry and nutrition in paper form so as not to escape in electronic form anywhere else and strangely, an article with 67% of the same purpose appears. That's why we say it's great that you have such good intentions. But please write the law yourself. However, it is not that you remove, according to one article at home, the explanation of this article, but that there is still a whole series of other articles that enable this amendment to be implemented. This article doesn't do anything to itself. You must understand so much, and you know it. Of course, just because you show how careful you are to allow for faster comas, you go and "how" beat the government. Come on, come on! And there's something else I'd like to say. Today I have heard a thing that I do not know now whether it is attributed to the youth of the one who spoke, or whether it is attributed to the behavior of this matter, a better knowledge of the subject to me, which I am so old. They say I'm the oldest member of this National Assembly. I'm not ashamed of it. Thank God I'm an MP. I'm talking about women together, not men. And why am I saying this? Because the fragmentation of agricultural parcels and the small size of farms in Slovenia is not the result of the land maximum, please. Do you have any idea what a maximum of 10 hectares is? If the maximum amount of land in Slovenia was reached immediately after the war, then we would not have fragmented parcels and farms. That's one. So the earth's maximum is, small farms are due in particular to inherited legislation before World War II and even then. He asks nicely, and I hope that he listens to me, who said that he should read a little of the history of the development of agricultural activity in this country from K. U. K. Osterreich-Ungarn, as once said, until today. And I'll say something else. I was a member of the first term of this National Assembly, 1992-1996. In that mandate, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, was a liberal Democrat. But at the time we made decisions about how we would be, yes, yours was, the one from Maribor. [[...]] Well, then he was before. It doesn't matter. Mainly, decisions have been taken on how we will ensure that the average size of farms is increased. We decided that in the National Assembly, and then nothing happened. The average area of farms has increased one fig in Slovenia. To this day, we still have as small farms as we had them. What's the average square now? At the time, however, 3.5 was an alarmingly large increase. I cannot go past the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture has been led by the People's Party all the time and that Mr Oman, as the age of the People's Party at the time, said that it was necessary to increase and speed up and I do not know what needs to be done to increase farms in Slovenia. And what happened? Practically one fig, nothing. I ask you kindly, when the law of September comes or in August of the month will come to the National Assembly, see that you contribute to the improvement of the law according to all your abilities and abilities, because it is the good of agriculture in this law. In this law, drafted by the Ministry, led by Dr. Pogačnik, there are a lot of improvements that will, I am sure, lead to a much easier way for our farmer to work, not physically speaking, but that he will be much easier to develop his activity than he has done so far. I am happy that there has finally been such a movement that we can experience, I will say, some new wave of agricultural development in Slovenia. Because the fact is, I totally agree with it, unless someone's making top-notch wines in their vineyards, that on 3, 4, 5 hectares something can't do much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." [[She's not here.]] Proposer, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. With each discussion of the coalition Member, we are one step further from what should be. Mr Saiovic said earlier in his delegation's position that in one week's time the Agricultural Lands Act would be ready. Now Mrs Pečanova has said that she will come to the National Assembly at the end of August. We filed it on June 10th. It's almost three months before you submit something to the legislative process. Three months ago. I think that when the coalition MPs lack arguments, any insult to anyone who proposes anything in this country is allowed any positive change. Every one of them is convicted and charged. I would if you were so good, if you were so flexible, what Mr Sayovic said before, and what you are now saying, you could have had a month already February, because the government was set up at the end of November, if that is so easy. I think it's very unfair that instead of talking about purposes, we deal with individuals. We didn't take anything from anyone, nobody, I don't know what they got from anyone, because we never got any of you. What we are proposing and today we are proposing a fourth law in the legislative process, and we are also addressing it, are the proposals we have drawn up in our parliamentary group. It's in our parliamentary group. We didn't ask anyone's opinion, we didn't consult at the Ministry of Public Affairs, we didn't even consult anyone at the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, anywhere. Because in practice, we are also dealing with comassations ourselves. I myself, because I was the mayor before, I had already carried out some of the commotion procedures there, long before 2000, and now these similar things are happening, and these repeated patterns of problems also lead to the need to do something in this area. Today, however, we have just heard from every proposal for a law that purposes are good and that the government will systematically regulate them later. This law, if not now adopted and will not go forward, will be discussed once at the end of this year. It's the end of this year. If he moves forward, the procedure may be closed in September. Easy, easy. There's no problem if we fix that number 67 at 65, if that bothers you. You can suggest this, you can do this at 60, if this is a key problem, but in these land matters there is a question of whether there should be a higher degree of consensus in decision-making than, say, in order to change the constitution. I don't think it's necessary, but it's also a matter that follows in some way from the Constitution and that's why it's connected to this decision, not because of what you would or would suggest. If you were me, like you say, you'd probably rewrite everything you've been up to if you're up to something. But that's not it. No one got a glimpse of this, no one knows what changes you're making. You'll be presenting this at the end of August. That's all they say is, if there's anything, it's work materials, etc. We don't have the solutions, we don't know them, and we'll probably if the coalition's work runs as slowly as it does now, when the two members of the coalition say two dates, and the differences are a month and a half, then we'll probably propose something else. Perhaps even in this law and also in other laws. We have also prepared, some kind of normative programme and will also implement and implement it, more consistently, faster than the Government. And even proposals are good, in principle all exceptional, as we listen to the debates, it is only likely that it is the prejudice that makes it impossible for these proposals to continue in the process and to accept them. This is not a problem for us, we have ideas and we will prepare them, the problem is for those who are stopped by this, not to benefit from these ratings, these advantages or opportunities that these laws bring. Just as we've heard about one item before - more like 10, instead of 10 million savings to economists, they'll give them 10 and so on, in addition to wasting time and other things. Four of the nine are those where the payment, if not heard, is more expensive than the amount written on the virman. You probably know this information, but you didn't do anything. And it's hard for me to expect anything here. Even all those Members who think the opposition in the National Assembly is simply to sit and vote in favour of the coalition proposals are seriously mistaken. Mr Bukovnik, there is no dictatorship in this country, there is no totalitarian system yet, but we are close to that because the trend, the direction as things are happening, is going against it. We have all the right - business, constitutional and whatever else to propose, and we will. But you can take the right because you have the majority to decide whether or not it will go any further. Just like things are being set up now, there's probably nothing going on. I hope people applaud you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u194	I'm not going to be long, I'm going to say again that, of course, you couldn't rewrite everything, because if you copied everything, it would be very obvious. And if you've already copied it, then at least you'd copy it like you've just proposed - 65% so it wouldn't be so obvious. And that's why you won't convince me that you didn't get information from inside the Ministry. But it doesn't matter. Now I'm going to technically explain to you why it's not good to support your marriage now. Because then, in September of our well-prepared, much deeper cut into the agricultural economy, farming in Slovenia in a positive sense, we could not consider at the September meeting of the National Assembly, because we should first consider yours. So I'm sorry that I have to say that this article is good, of course, because it was prepared with Dr. Pogačnik, with Mrs. Bukovchev, who is the secretary of state, as you have been told, but not with any government advisor, and therefore I must tell you that, unfortunately, it will not hold up what you say.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u195	Proposer, Mr. Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Yesterday we also discussed at a meeting a well-prepared law on taxation of management submitted by the coalition Members with thirty signatures. I think, with the exception of one article of that law, they've all been amended. So much for talking about quality. Well, if you look back at government bill proposals, you'll get the same results. Same results. See the Opinions of the Legal and Legal Service [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u197	Mrs. Pecanova, you can't answer from the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u198	What you fixed. [[...]] Speaking of systematic and quality preparation of government laws. Look at that. You have a computer in front of you and you can check everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. Apparently, you have a coalition MP problem with number 67. 67 is the round number, 66,6, the two-thirds majority, has already been said, and this number has not grown on the celery of the SDS Group. In many debates, two thirds were mentioned as an idea or as a suitable majority, and this was the result. From this and probably, if there is a number 67 in the government space, you have also summarized one such assessment. The problem with coalitions is probably also that you set your priorities completely wrong. Because agriculture and, of course, the area of the economy are extremely important, and it will obviously be for more than a year, this law will be dealt with if it will, of course, be. It was said today that this will be filed in a week, on the other hand, to be in August. But I have noticed this, and I think one of them has mentioned that it will even be put into public debate or some kind of coordination. So probably this date is still pretty, pretty far apart. As I mentioned, you have priority issues. Apparently, you gave yourself priority first of all to raise the judges' salaries to raise the legal tariffs to make sure that they were erased, to encourage you to blame yourself. That's a priority for you. But what I think would be good for our farmers is not a priority for you. I am sure and believe that the vast majority of us share the view that our farmers are very concerned, decent and could be significantly more successful, significantly more competitive if we systematically allow them to grow in a simpler, easier way. One of the major obstacles is the fragmentation of agricultural land. The result of this fragmentation is also that soils grow from fields to grasslands. If we walk outside urban settlements, we can see at every step of the way how people leave the processing of these lands because this dispersion makes it impossible for them to do so. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have also assessed that it would be good now to take a step towards making a priority step forward in the area of comassation or unification of these lands. It is not now a large or comprehensive measure that can improve things in all areas, but it will make an important contribution to speeding things up where problems are, precisely because of the law in force so far. This contributes to the implementation of this objective. Look, everyone knows that the proverb says, a rock as big as it is, or a rock as big as it is, with many or more blows with a smaller hammer to break. It is also seen as a complex problem, and it can be solved with small solutions, with small steps. And agriculture is certainly a complex problem that has long been present in Slovenia and has been neglected. I do not believe that the Government or anyone else is capable of predicting all the problems that will also be addressed through the treatment process or through the implementation of a law that the Government says is preparing and will also be dealt with, the issues have been resolved. Why not confirm this law, which is now in the procedure, and even if this law is in force a month earlier, it means that this measure will solve a problem a month earlier. And if you really make such a law on the part of the government, which will also solve it, we're not actually gonna lose anything. Of course, I will be happy to cooperate and contribute if this government law is to be dealt with and supported if it solves these problems. However, as I mentioned, there is no reason why this law is not now supported to enter into force as soon as possible. I hope that, as said by one of the parliamentary groups, Members will vote in their conscience that you will also give sufficient support in the coalition, or at least not vote against it, press the quorum, and we will vote this law ourselves and make an important step towards improving our agriculture as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much. There was much to be said and the damage is Friday afternoon for many flaceries and so on. I know you've been very well informed, better informed than position, because you've dragged the hunters for four years, so it's also 67% of the exact number. I believe that the intentions are good, because this was a proposal from the Government or the Ministry of Agriculture. And if they prepared it, I believe the purpose was very good. All I want to say is, you always say that the government and President Pahor should be sitting here, and I don't know what. And, guys, here before, a colleague of mine spent ten minutes explaining what a commotion was. The Minister of Agriculture will not listen to elementary school explanations about what a commotion is and wastes time. Thank God she's working, and I'm still sorry for the time that the lady is wasting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Oh, so Janko Weber has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. If the good intentions of investors in this law are so great that they want to be adopted as soon as possible, then of course it would be necessary to explain why we have this law at first reading today. If we put him in on short notice, we would be discussing a second reading today, and we could really talk about the fact that before we go on vacation, this law would already be passed. All the explanations you had, in the direction that you want to accelerate the resolution of the coma, simply do not hold. It is about trying to stall and make it difficult for the Government to come up with its proposal, which would, of course, be tried as soon as possible in the National Assembly. These are the facts. The following is the fact that the change in the percentage of owners involved in the initiation of the procedure for the Commission decreases from eighty to seventy-seven. It is only one of the first steps that you can start this procedure as easily as possible, but then the procedure has to be carried out and eventually concluded with legal authority. And that's what he's talking about in the Law on Agricultural Lands. Thirty-three articles. Seven of these need to be amended and brought into line with other legislation in order to ensure that this procedure, when the commotion begins, is completed as soon as possible and that it begins to live at least in that part, even if in any part of the complaint has not yet been harmonised, it is not yet concluded that it can live at least in the part where it is found that the procedure is agreed on both sides or in all those involved and in that part which agree with it. In short, we are talking about the fact that the law as it is does not solve the problem in practice and is therefore an inappropriate basis for further consideration. If I were to address at least six more articles that really need to be harmonised, we could today talk about our common interest in this matter being achieved, reducing the fragmentation of the land or that the complexes are arranged so that each agricultural economy is easier to manage with its own land, but unfortunately only this step will not lead to this. And it has been procedurally said that even if this law is confirmed at first reading, we cannot conclude before September, October. And I don't think it makes any difference that the government will come in July or August, because our meeting will start in September and the procedure can be completed in October, early in the morning, just like this law. It is not possible to give any indication to the Government or coalition that something will happen later or, I don't know, at what time it came with its solutions. And it is true, it is very difficult to prepare a law that would not then be supplemented in the National Assembly. This is proved by practice, and I think that we are hardly actually meeting the law from the mandate, so that we do not complete it in the National Assembly. Finally, this is the same, because this is also our role, because every proposer, when he introduces the law into the procedure, of course, we deal with it and we try to complement it and I hope that it will improve as well. But the worst part is that we adopt a law that is not, in practice, possible to implement. This is a waste of time. And only one article is a waste of time and we are talking about it, and we therefore justify the position of our parliamentary group that this law is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Dear President, dear colleagues! Here we have now heard a number of technical concerns and procedural concerns regarding the procedure. This law could have been followed by a reduced procedure, but people would not have the opportunity to hear this high-quality debate and the reasons why it is not possible to accept it. Because we would only vote on the proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as is the type of other bill proposals that we have tabled in the legislative procedure. Mr Weber knows this very well, which is why he also has so many problems explaining why it is not good. That he has a problem, a major problem with it, also shows his sentence when he said that if we accept it, the law cannot be implemented. There's no way to do this. If the law can be implemented with 80% consent, it will be even easier with 2/3 consent. It's much easier. All those of us who have been involved in the commotion process know how these procedures run live and in practice. And I think that the reasons for rejecting a matter are just to make it a government marriage in three months, bad reasons. Bad reasons! Very bad reasons. They're talking about something that's completely decommissioned, it's diametrically deviates from what your Prime Minister has told us about this speaker that proposals that are good will be supported. 2/3 consent to the auctions, if you have it in your proposal, is exactly as you have written it, but in that proposal that comes in two months, if it comes in, this two-thirds consent will be appropriate and right and best. In the proposal that we have drawn up, which we propose, this consensus is not appropriate. And colleague Weber has even declared that the law will not be implemented. Unbelievable. We have proposed this solution in order to buy time so that, under the compromises that are being submitted, they can learn that we can get the necessary consensus to initiate procedures more quickly. This is certainly essential and that we should bring about a more rapid land consolidation process, so that we can move faster towards the creation of rounded agricultural areas and thus give earlier conditions for mechanical and other technological processing and food production. This is the basic purpose of this law. If there are other reasons why you want to fix the law, it's okay. In a previous similar coalition, the Agricultural Lands Act was reformed only so that some farmers could buy land. That's why a hole has been made, and I probably have a pretty good feeling that this complex law you're going to propose will do something similar. Perhaps not this, but something else that will loosen up some procedures that will be masked by this two-thirds agreement will allow some other decisions, some other procedures. This has been done so far with amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act. That is why some have now become farmers, in addition to what they do. In short, I think it is necessary to continue with the things that we have proposed, that this law is appropriate to deal with, continue to deal with, and that we need to solve the structural problems that are in the field of Slovenian agriculture. This is one of the important steps. It's not the only one, and it's not the most perfect, but it's the perfect step that's going to settle a lot of things in the countryside and regulate a lot of things. Therefore, those who have a status to deal with this activity have an interest in changing these matters. All those who speculate have other interests and do everything in their power to hinder various acceptable solutions. The fact that we have the situation as it is in agriculture is a consequence of inadequate agricultural policy in the past. Yes, it is. And this agricultural policy from a long time ago, then the decommissioning took place, then the agricultural maxims were fixed, and then a lot of things happened. And the continuation of the implementation of agricultural policy at the time was extremely poor, as it was not possible to buy modern technology equipment, it was not possible. And also because of this, or because of the fact that you had this option at the time, you systematically put the problem of the decline of Slovenian agriculture, systemically because certain things should not have evolved. Only at the time of independence have some significant changes been made in this area, but they were also related to other matters. A lot of this actually happened, a lot of things that weren't necessary, and it's probably meant to be. Now we're saving things that are outdated, now we're trying to revive the countryside to find a way out of the crisis on this part, so that the cultural landscape doesn't fail, so that the beast doesn't reach the gates of the countryside. And when such a proposal comes before the Members of the National Assembly, it is necessary to gather all the strength and draw all the solutions and explanations from the five veins in order to reject such proposals. If the coalition were truly as well-intentioned as has been said and as it has been tried to present to the public, then we could have done a lot in this mandate, which is what is left of the previous mandate. A lot of things. However, important things stand, important things have been rejected, and only for various procedural reasons. What Mrs Pecan has said is true, we will probably reject this law in order to clear the way for a government law that will come in two months' time. That's probably what he's saying. That's a key argument. And if the coalition is acting in such a way that it needs the opposition's proposal to summarize it in its solution, then I don't think we're going to get far. And that's probably why a lot of things are going very slowly, and that's why trends are like statistics, not just statistics, but actual feelings that we get and that's what citizens have. If we do not change anything in agriculture and agricultural policy, then this trend of agricultural land degradation will continue indefinitely. Despite the crisis, despite the fact that if you could, if you could, if you could, if you could compress things, if you could set things straight and you could survive a lot, this trend will continue. I'm sure he'll keep going. And the longer we wait, the bigger the problems. We'll be accepting the budget soon. It will probably also be necessary to put some items in the budget, because, on the basis of the change or share of the consent of the owners of agricultural land, some calls will be made and interest will be somewhat greater. If you change anything else, the procedures will also be easier to run. And I don't think it's appropriate to keep these procedures politically. We should make these changes as soon as possible. The first opportunity will be on Wednesday when we vote on these bill proposals, and I hope that there will be appropriate decisions in the coalition, that there will not be a vote for me and you alone, as has generally been the case now. It was just us who supported the coalition proposals, and a lot of things were taken unexpectedly for you too, but there was no appropriate decision by the coalition to support good and necessary opposition proposals. Even in the area of the economy, what we have proposed, including in the area of administrative barriers, including in the field of, in this case, agricultural policy, these are appropriate and good proposals. That's what you said in the debate. However, the principles of the coalition : opposition, we : you are stronger than the goodness that you previously spoke about and the quality you spoke about. I think that such an approach for a country in the economic crisis, even a large part of this after unnecessary, should be changed. Perhaps a sample from the previous mandate, when fundamental solutions have been consulted and coordinated for the most demanding solutions, with opposition parties in order to use these models now. That was not necessary at the time, since the situation was such. Now it's very necessary. And it's a shame any missed opportunity the coalition doesn't use to get better solutions. It is only by saying that we have in preparation a system law, that we will examine something else here and then we will propose, as we have listened to today practically all day, that is, in fact, to say the least, irresponsible. And what's worse is that when a solution comes before you, which is actually by common sense, it's impossible to say no, it's practically a bunch of insults to the proponents. I don't think this is the level of debate in the National Assembly. We need a quality debate. If a two-thirds consensus is not appropriate, then we can have a discussion on a lower consensus, and we can have a slightly higher one, but someone has to propose it. This should be discussed whether the two-thirds principle is appropriate or not, that is all we are proposing. However, this principle is not being discussed here. It runs about many other things that have nothing to do with the content of the law and the proposal we have made. I must say that even those who proposed, including my fellow Members, have debated this issue today, but have been challenged. I think it would be appropriate that all those who have good intentions in the agricultural field do so as soon as possible to take advantage of the opportunities offered to take advantage of them when we have them on the table. There is no need, and there is no argument that decisions on such proposals should be put into any future, but that Mr Potts should smile one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I am truly delighted that Mr Tanko, as a proposaler or one of the first to sign, admitted that the aim of this law was to speak to the public today about this law. And that was really the goal. With regard to the temporary adoption of this law, I would like to reiterate once again that if your interest were sincere that this law was adopted as soon as possible, today it would be dealt with in a reduced procedure and today this law would be adopted or rejected at a meeting of the National Assembly. And we could really talk about it if we were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u209	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u210	If you were accepted, your interest would be sincere and well-intentioned. [[...]] Unfortunately, however, you have already proved by procedure only that your well-intention here is not really demonstrated and the time component of acceptance or government or this law will be exactly the same. The effect in practice, however, will be significantly better given the content of government law than it will be. See, throughout the period of independent Slovenia, she was practically responsible for the right-hand agricultural policy. All the time. If we just look at the data that's scary. From 2002 to 2007, we lost seven hectares of agricultural land per day. Seven hectares of agricultural land per day. That's scary information. And that's how many times it's possible to mention debauchery and so on. See, denationalisation, the return of agricultural land in nature also to those who do not deal with agriculture. Many parcels were also returned in complexes, thus breaking down complexes and reducing the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. Why was this coming back in nature, especially in the way that agricultural land complexes were being crushed? That would be really nice to hear the right - hand answers today, why did she take such a agricultural policy to crush complexes? And today we are breaking our heads about how the owners of agricultural land, which are not even in Slovenia, will be interested in joining the Commission. One of the measures we are proposing as a left-wing official in the law, which is in accordance with the coalition agreement procedure, is the reduction in the number of participants, i.e. owners at the beginning of the introduction of this Commission. We are forced to do so because it is simply not possible to gather so much consent from landowners, because many of these are also related to nature return under the denationalisation process. And that's one of the biggest problems we have in Slovenia alone when this one was adopted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u211	Mr. Weber, please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u212	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u213	Time's up if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u214	Mostly, I'm just warning you again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u215	That's why I have to warn you. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u216	Once again, I would like to point out that this objective, as the applicant has been exposed to, has been clearly demonstrated to be a debate, not an effective solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing he does. Ms Sonja Bukovec, State Secretary, also applied. I'll give you my word. First of all, I will give the floor to Mrs Sonja Bukovec, Secretary of State. She signed up to me. He can apply at this time. At the time left, she can apply, but she could not sign up sooner because the government had not given up. Do not worry about the proper explanation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs. Sonja Bukovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your word. Today, we are talking about the agricultural land law. The problems in this area are very serious. This is why we decided at the Ministry, even though this was not at the beginning of the normative plan, to prepare amendments to this law and to put them into government or parliamentary procedure. The law is currently in coalition coordination. The article of the law proposed by the SDS Group is, of course, identical, as already mentioned today, to the article of the law in our proposal. Why did we decide to change? In particular, because in this area, in the field of land policy, the existing law poses a number of problems, particularly administrative ones, there is further coordination with space, problems related to the transport of agricultural land, land remains outside the economic function and so on. I repeat, the law is in coalition coordination, we have tried to solve the problems comprehensively, as far as possible, as far as the amendment of the law allows, so that agricultural policy can be as friendly as possible for all those in need of assistance in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you. Well, thank God the respectable lady came by. Again, when we consider the proposal for a law amending the agricultural land law, we have come up with politicisation, not content. But it is true that my colleague here reminded me of me; we are working together; and that is what I wanted to ask. Everything nice that Mrs State Secretary has just said, but why haven't we received the Government's position on the proposal for this law?Oh, my God! Maybe less words, less left-and-right insults. And maybe we'd know what it is, no matter what the first reading is. The Government's position, at least if I look at it, was neither there nor heard it, nor have I, unless I have overlooked it - then I sincerely apologize to you, Madam Secretary of State. Then, well, then, let's take the path of words and noodles through various books and argue here and just throw left-to-right what you have to throw. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u221	Please, Mr. Kontic, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u222	it would be good for the Government to express its position, since the Government is the one who cares and watches over developments in the field, specifically the agricultural land law. [[...]] We have a proposal, no matter what the first consideration is, that the government tell us its position, say that another law is being drawn up and then we would not be late and speak to each other for three, four hours and waste our time infertilely. We're paid to exchange opinions. But it's infertility that hurts. For one thing, the Government should say that this proposal will be taken into account, will not be taken into account, will change it, whether it is the first, second or third reading or whatever. The content is important, not the form, not the rules of procedure, but the rules of procedure. We are talking about one proposal that, in the opinion of some, would be better, according to others. The government is the one who will give its position, it is likely that such a position will also be adopted, and there is nothing wrong with hearing it today, regardless of the fact that it is the first hearing under the Rules of Procedure. I think it's useful for people, for farmers, for those who are concerned with this law, but not for us, because we all don't know this law so well, some have made certain proposals, they get to know each other a little bit better, and in fact this law is due to people who are waiting for what will happen. People are the ones who need or don't need this law. I had to answer because the actual position of the Government, even if it was given, thank God that it was now given by the Government, is welcome to know how to proceed. Since we are at first reading, there are still opportunities for us to do good for those concerned by the law. For us it doesn't matter, for us it's obviously just throwing a bullet or shooting arrows from left to right. I respect the rules of procedure, but sometimes logical thinking is more necessary than paper, paperwork and regulations. But I think it's legal or legitimate if you want, if it's not already legal, well, I'll say legitimate that the government gives its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues are also welcome! I think that there will be no problem or tragedy if this proposed amendment of the law by the opposition is also adopted. Nevertheless, I estimate that the coalition is preparing some solutions, changes in the package. That's why I'm going to support those solutions. As I say, no tragedy would have happened if we had accepted this matter from each other as well. It is important that agriculture needs this change of law, because with the meliorations and also the comassations we can make Slovenian agriculture competitive to Europeans. But before this competitiveness happens, we will have to say in our strategy in Slovenia - I think it will also be presented at the agri-food fair in Gornja Radgona - the development of agriculture in the Slovenian space. One day we will have to tell you what farm, family farm we really want in Slovenia. A petectar farm with perhaps 30 to 50 parcels of working surfaces will not bring competitiveness. History makes these things conditional, from the past, if we look at Prekmurje, and we only remember Misko Kranjec - And the uncles have told us, and it will probably be clear to all Slovenes why we have such large agricultural processing plots. But I come from the area myself, and I also have my experience of how we started to perform the commotions and meliorations in our area. Unfortunately, I must conclude that in the years following the independence, even during the first Government of Demos, the Fund of Agricultural Lands at that time also contributed to the fragmentation of these complexes, that this land, which has been owned by various institutions, agricultural cooperatives, agricultural economies, has been distributed among farmers in small parcels. At that time, we should look at what we are talking about today. But there's something else that worries me more about the whole story. All the agrarian economists in Slovenia - there was no Fund for Agricultural Lands, but some other institutions shared this matter, and later I repaired agricultural economists talk about problems in agriculture. This is also affected by our fragmentation because we are not competitive. In 2009, the economy of all our agricultural segments is deteriorating. We must be quite concerned that this is in the year when we actually have a major economic crisis or recession in Slovenia as well as in the world. Why am I stressing this now? In particular, because I am concerned that we are actually losing out of the environment from which I come from, in addition to having major problems in agriculture, including one of the most important companies, this is Mura. You can imagine the problems we face in the agricultural field underpining the bankruptcy of the textile giant. What does our space actually bring together in 2009?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much. If we really had good intentions in the coalition and would support the law, then we would also be able to apply for an extraordinary meeting, for a second hearing, and, together with the budget rebalancing, we would also consider this law and be adopted at this meeting on 16 and 17 July. As now, the Government will bring an additional law every day, which will be included in an extraordinary session, this small problem, which is linked to procedure and efficiency, could easily be solved. It's also a business possibility. As for responsibility for rural areas or agriculture, you know, colleague Weber, the right hand was not responsible for the agricultural sector, but always for the coalition. The coalition has always had a Minister of Agriculture, and each coalition has tried to regulate it in one way or another. This was nothing to do with the left or the right, but with the coalition and the opposition. And if you've been members of coalition governments long enough, you could arrange it. It is similar with the Denationalisation Act. After the year, I don't know, 1992 or 1994, when it was adopted, it was ten years ago, when you had a lot of power in the coalition. Not the biggest, but a lot. And if this denationalization law for the then coalitions was so disruptive, then they could easily change it. You also had more than two-thirds of the members of the National Assembly in the coalition of your time. And now to challenge why and how, even what kind of mandate you are a longer Member than I am, we could have proposed something before, not just now in this free debate when the process is concluded, we are regulating this. Ten years ago, there was more to be done. And here's the problem. Today we discussed four laws at first reading. In the three laws we have proposed, we have had a written position of the Government and an oral speech or a speech by a representative of the Government. This is the only law for which we have not received the written position of the Government, nor has the Government had the time announced to express its position. Unfortunately, such a withdrawal, which I consider to be some form of desertion or escape from the problem, is inappropriate for the Government, which also wants to work competently in the agricultural sector. The Government should probably submit a written and oral position in the National Assembly to make such a significant change, although it is only a matter of amending one article. If she has been able to do so for the three laws that we have dealt with before this point, then it would probably be appropriate for this point. It was expected, too. That's how it all went down. I would also like to draw your attention to the statement made by the Secretary of State, who said that this amendment to the law was not part of the Government's normative programme. Probably not yet. It is said that after June 10th, when we tabled this amendment of this article, the government machinery was released. And that's why we'll be waiting for a month and a half for the government to table a motion for a law of procedure. And there are a few other things she's going to add to the fact that it's not just going to be in the process. That's what it looks like now. One statement by Mr Saiovic, who is a member of the coalition, the other Mrs Pecanov, the third secretary of state, and when you put this mosaic together, you can come to that conclusion. I'm not saying it's real. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But you can come to that conclusion. [[...]] I myself will support the bill because I believe that this amendment is necessary. It is necessary because it is necessary to relax the formation and acquisition of consensus on the introduction of the comitology procedures. The quorum should be reduced and thus allowed to occur where there is interest, the introduction of comitology procedures and improvements [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in the field of agricultural policy. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on the supplementation of the Income Act, the reduced procedure. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by Rado Likar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. The Act on the Complementation of the Income Law is short and follows a single goal or solution. This is to exclude so-called OMD payments, i.e. payments for a restricted area from the tax base. The payments for the OMD are payments from agricultural and forestry payments which are exempt from income payments under Article 26 of the current Income Act, as well as under the provisions of the Council Regulation. In areas with limited farming opportunities, farmers are entitled to compensatory payments intended to offset production costs due to difficult production conditions, with a view to creating conditions for farming and ensuring adequate treatment of agricultural land in hilly areas and in areas with environmental constraints. Therefore, it is not logical that a farmer who processes land in restricted areas would pay more tax than income related to agricultural activity than a farmer benefiting from agricultural activities in flat areas. As early as 2007 and 2008, the Ministry of Finance initially included in the average amount of subsidies payments from the OMD and subsequently published new calculations, excluding the OMD payments from the calculation. Such a solution, in our view, is only temporary and, precisely with the additions to the Income Act, this problem could be permanently resolved. At the meeting of the home committee, on the proposal of the SD Group, although the Government did not oppose the amendment of the law, a proposal was put forward that the law before it was not suitable for further consideration, since it was more appropriate to wait for the amendment of the Income Act, which was already in preparation. I am afraid that the anticipated novelties of laws and systemic solutions governing income and cadastral income will not be available for a while, so the adoption of the proposed law, in our opinion, is meaningful and necessary. It is also necessary from this point of view because according to the Statistics Office, the factor income in agriculture in 2008 is lower by about 10% than in 2007. In recent years, we have also witnessed a number of pests that are destroying crops and economic buildings and thus exacerbating the income situation of agriculture in Slovenia. We are in favour of a proposal to supplement the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group or we are against the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Jurša on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the DeSUS do not, in principle, object to the proposed solution, because we are convinced that this area needs to be regulated in a way that ensures equality for all debtors. In view of the fact that the Government has also joined the settlement of this issue, which is intended to create an appropriate solution in terms of the newly defined incomes included in the tax base and the exemptions for the income from the basic agricultural and forestry activities, we will not support this proposal. We are confident that the government proposal will more comprehensively and fairly regulate the taxation of this area and the possibility of determining cadastral income, subsidisation income and examining the return to the system of taxation of actual subsidies for actual recipients. For this reason, Members of the DeSUS will support the decision of the home working body that the proposal for a new law on income is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u231	Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the coalition, the leader of the coalition parliamentary groups, I'd like to ask you to tell us what you don't have in preparation for us to do. Because obviously we're just doing things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u233	Mr. Tanko, this is not a procedural question. The procedural question concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure, so that this is not a procedural question and no one has to say anything. Thank you. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we met on the working body, we received a discussion on the proposal to supplement the Income Act following a reduced procedure submitted by a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party, that representatives of the Government in the State Council said correctly and legitimately that the Government was opposed to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Income Law following a reduced procedure. At the very meeting of the parent working body, we received the position of the Government, where it does not oppose the proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act, a reduced procedure. On the Council of State, the Government's representative says he opposes the Government's position on the parent's working body not to object. I don't know, I think these are two completely different views of the same government. At this meeting of the parent working body, it came to the point that it had reconsidered the decision of the coalition parties to object to the proposal of the law. If we agree now that we are talking about the proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act with different views, because it was submitted by someone from the Slovenian People's Party, then let's go "against-again-again". But if we are talking about a law that is important to people whose content is important to people, then I would expect - and again I do not want to be a strict opposition but a constructive opposition party - that the position of the government and coalition parties that make up this government would be united. In order to say that in the State Council, we are against saying that on the working body, we are against, and thirdly, we are against because we are preparing a new law. Okay. However, I do not understand, on the State Council against, on the home labour body they were against, then against, once again, the decision on the home labour body. And I'm afraid they weren't coordinated in the government. Let them deal with this on their own. I really don't mind, and I have already pointed out twice today that I am expecting many of the new laws prepared by the Government. And I will try them, at least those concerning my areas and areas of the Slovenian National Party, to read them, to respect them, if they are good, or to reject them if they are not good. But all I can hear so far is how new laws are being drawn up, so anything anyone else suggests is not good. But we didn't solve the problem. I can believe that what I would suggest, what a colleague suggested or suggested by colleagues on this or this side, is not a good thing. I can believe that. I can believe she's not good. But at least let's look at it and see if it's not good, find out it's not good, and throw it away. But if we can see she's good, let's take her. It's better to plant one tree than to wait for a hundred trucks to bring in a thousand trees. At least one will grow. In fear, waiting for a thousand new trees that will never exist, we cannot live, or the people concerned. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Income following a reduced procedure already due to non-conformity within the coalition and within the Government. I'd love to. I know that we are probably going to be in a minority and that the proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act will not be adopted, but we can say in six months or a year that we wanted to adopt it and we wanted good people, not politicians.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to make it clear that we are in favour of this law because we have also filed it. But I would also say that the government and the coalition support the law. However, since he is preparing, we have seen this many times today because he is preparing a broader and systemic law, it is obvious that this law will also experience a similar fate. But OMD payments are, clearly, not only in our opinion and in the majority's opinion, environmental payments are. And under the applicable Income Act, as such should already be excluded from taxation under the existing law. However, since there are different interpretations at the Ministry of Agriculture, and especially at the Ministry of Finance, it is necessary to regulate the matter more precisely, more specifically, with a minor amendment to the law, which we have also proposed. That's right. The same procedure was held at the end of the previous mandate. At the same time, we also gave the previous coalition the task of bringing these two ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, to make a change, this minor amendment to the law, but prevented the end of the mandate from adopting an amendment at that time in the National Assembly or making an appropriate amendment at all. We therefore expect the National Assembly to adopt this law, which we have drawn up and to resolve for the next few years, that there will be no further dilemma in the spring work, when the relevant decisions will be given again to all those concerned by this part of the law. As we say, in the parliamentary group we will support these changes in the law. If this system law were not to see the light of the world until the coming spring, I would suggest to all that they follow our example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-10-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 8th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 13 July 2009, at nine o'clock. Thank you. Good-bye. Have a nice weekend.
