ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Marjan Bezjak, Darko Menich, only Bevk, Janez Rybič, mag. Radovan Žerjav, Silven Majhenič, Victory Jelinčič noble, Ljubo Germič, mag. Borut Sajovic from 17.15 onwards, Roberto Battelli, László Göncz, Anton Urh, mag. Vasja Klavora from 17.30 p.m., Marian Križman, Alojz Posedel until 17 p.m., Tadej Slapnik, Jakob Presectnik from 15 p.m. on and Guido Kres. I invited the President of the Government to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 3 December 2009. I have not received any proposals for an extension or withdrawal of the agenda item. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a decision-making decision to be taken at the referendum on the establishment of the communities in view of the amendment of their areas, which was 8 years old. NOVEMBER 2009 In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly, a referendum was held on 8 November 2009 on the establishment of municipalities or the modification of their areas. The report on the outcome of the vote and the outcome of the referendum was prepared by the State Election Commission and published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 94 of 20 November 2009. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is by letter dated 25. 11. 2009 Communication to the National Assembly by 25. 11. By 9 a.m., she received no complaints within the meaning of Article 53a, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. You have received a letter from the Supreme Court. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Renata Brunskole for further presentation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister, distinguished and dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development shall, at its 8th urgent meeting on 2 December 2009, act as the working body and on the basis of 169a. Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.The proposal for a decision on the publication of decisions adopted at the referendum on the establishment of municipalities or on the modification of their areas on 8 November 2009 addressed the working material of the decision. Given that there were no or no comments on the working material, the Committee adopted that decision, which is proposed for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. Let me explain what is also evident from the explanation of the conclusion that the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative in 53b. the article provides that the National Assembly shall, within eight days of the legality of the 53a State Election Commission report. the Article of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative announces the decision taken at the referendum and publishes it in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 53a. Article of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative provides that any voter may lodge a complaint against the report of the State Election Commission within three days of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the appeal shall be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As indicated in the report of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 25. 11. 2009 against the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and the vote of the referendum on the establishment of municipalities or on the modification of their areas published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 94/09 of 20. 11. 2009, no complaint was lodged within the legal time limit. In view of the above, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed the legality of the State Election Commission report in the text published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly is therefore due within a given period of time on the basis of 53b. Articles of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative to make public the findings contained in the report of the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposal for a decision. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the position will be presented by Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u4	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has already voted on the committee responsible to confirm this decision, because we have virtually no other option. Let me mention that Slovenia signed or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u5	Please, peace and attention in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u6	The European Charter on Local Self-Government, which says 'the local self-government is the foundation of democracy', thus obliges Slovenia to implement all the provisions of the Charter on Local Self-Government. [[...]] Our Constitution also states in Article 138 that the inhabitants of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and other local communities. Article 139 of our Constitution also states that the municipality is a self-reliant local community: "The municipality is established by law after a referendum has been carried out to determine the will of the inhabitants in a particular area." The mandate of the National Assembly is therefore to determine whether the proposed area meets the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality and to adopt a decision on the invitation to tender. Today we conclude on the results of these referendums, which have been signed in certain areas. The role of the National Assembly is that, if the referendum is positive, it is also obliged to adopt the Law establishing the municipality and establishing its territory. In short, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will confirm the outcome of the referendums.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, the position will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u8	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with colleagues! Desires for new municipalities and thus related incentives for the establishment of ever-new and new municipalities are a permanent feature of all the mandates of the National Assembly since the introduction of local self-government in 1994. Also in this mandate, the National Assembly, at its 9th meeting in September, called for referendums for the establishment of new municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna and for the distribution of the Municipality of Koper to four new municipalities. The referendums, as you know, were held on 8 November 2009. Voters or citizens have decided to support the establishment of new municipalities in Ankaran and Mirna. Today, as has already been said, in the National Assembly, we do not decide on the establishment of these municipalities, but on the basis of Article 50 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, we are taking a decision to declare the decisions taken at the referendums on 8 November 2009. We will, of course, support this decision in the parliamentary group. In doing so, we would like to reiterate the question of whether there is a sense of further establishment of municipalities or the fragmentation of existing ones. We believe that we must not take on ever-increasing knowledge and warn that 110 existing municipalities do not meet the requirement for the number of people, that is, 5,000, that excessive fragmentation has a negative impact on the successful absorption of European funds, on an inadequate funding system, which, in particular, is becoming less autonomous and increasingly dependent on the state budget, following recent amendments to the Community Financing Act. We would also draw attention to the inadequate position of urban municipalities, the undefined position of major municipalities, which are not otherwise urban, but carry out a number of tasks of wider importance and, last but not least, inadequate and ineffective control of the system of operation of the first level of local self-government. Taking all of this into account, we are facing serious reflection on how to proceed with the procedure followed by today's announcement of the results of the referendums.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! As already stated in the introductory address, we now have a simple task at this point in mind to confirm the results obtained at the referendum held in the Municipality of Koper in Mirna and to allow the procedure for the establishment of new municipalities to continue. That is why, in the Slovenian People's Party, we certainly support this decision today, and that we are also doing this people's will. We are also convinced that it is right that, in view of the fact that finally, in the municipality of Koper, there was only such an area in which a particular group of people could clearly express their opinion that then, even in the proceedings, the will of the people who had expressed it in the majority of Ankaran is followed. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we predict that we will respect this will of people and also support this decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We also believe in the DeSUS Group that it is only a formal decision, which we will also support. This is a matter of compliance with the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, not least with the legislative decision of the State Election Commission. And on this basis, of course, it is logically linked that the National Assembly will adopt a decision and confirm the decision expressed at the time in the referendum on the question of referendum in those areas where the referendum was voted on, and thus the surrounding areas of the new municipalities. Although the following points will probably also give us an opportunity to say more about what the DeSUS Group thinks about the further division of territory in the Slovenian space, i.e. the further division of municipalities. Otherwise, as I said, we will support this decision and then give an even broader explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, the position will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u14	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and take an official position. I'll speak differently than anyone else, because I expected that if you're in the government, somehow you're behind the government's positions, you're backing the government's positions. Apparently, the Slovenian National Party does not have such experience because it has never been to the government. Strange things have been happening lately, but let's just leave it. We have already three mandates in person and my colleagues have been monitoring developments around the formation of municipalities. It's always the same story, and always, I remember my own words well, it's a guilty story. Let us now leave the numbers you all know well that from just over 50 municipalities despite reform today after 19 years 210 congregations. The finding, and the evident conclusion, is that more than half of the municipalities that do not comply, I stress, do not comply with the basic legal provisions, which means that the legislative branch is the authority and that its representatives from the people have violated their own law, the law that they themselves have adopted. That's what happened. This is the third time this has happened. No one responded to the proposal to amend the legislation on local self-government. Obviously, it is written in such a way that it can reach the goal on one side or the other. Another last proposal I recall on behalf of the Slovenian National Party was that this Law on Local Self-Government should be amended by having only one article to talk about whether or not the new municipalities should be decided by the citizens themselves and the story is over. This raises the question of when a referendum can be. The referendum may be when it is found that certain referendum areas wishing to become a municipality comply with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. Well, and since it was determined that the congregation should have five or more thousand inhabitants, it was not enough, of course, that a certain article, which made an exception, once did more than two thousand if some demographic, geographical, and generally conditions were met. And we have witnessed that this exception has gladly become a rule. But that wasn't enough either. It happened, and it happens that even the exceptions are broken. The exceptions have already been violated, which is evident. This is one aspect of the truth, despite the clear position of the Government, and I have not heard its representatives today. And today you all speak as you did last time in the Law on Compatibility and Incompatibilities, yes, this time we will support the referendum will of the people who have created the Godsigave how, justified or not, and the second time we will pay attention. I've heard that three times. A year before the local elections. I know that it was the same story, during the reign of the Liberal Democracy and its coalition, during the reign of the SDS, and I hear this story now. On the other hand, the same government clearly and loudly says that in 2010 there will be an enormous fall in the income of the congregations, which will be even greater in 2011. At the same time, the same Government notes that there will be an enormous increase in the costs that will be incurred in 2010 and 2011 on the shoulders of the municipalities to solve social problems, all of which happen when additional tasks, new tasks and financial burdens are transferred to existing municipalities. No one wonders how these congregations will survive because people in the congregations want and we must offer them a decent life, with all the infrastructure options, with opportunities for investment and development. And another question I've asked three times or now I'm going to repeat it for the third time. Who can explain my next theory? I'll take a hypothetical case that's real. We have found that the majority of voters are for the referendum area to be expelled from the municipality of Koper to the new municipality of Ankaran. Okay. In the same breath, please, in the same breath, we find that most voters are against the division of the current Koper municipality. It's the opposite. One decision was made by 1,600 or 1,700 people, in the other 8 thousand. It's the same thing. The 1700 wants and has the full right to its municipality at 3000 and a few others, other than 9 or 10 000, as many as there are in another municipality, but does not want to be shared. Who's right about that? I think that, colleagues and colleagues, in nine years, ten almost, at least as far as I have experience, we have shown a great deal of dishonesty and injustice in individual decisions. We are not just talking about establishing a congregation. In other cases, we have already warned ourselves that we are in violation of the laws we have enacted. Now essential - force yourself in some cases, not in all, a referendum to then say, for what kind of Members you are to oppose the will of the people. But this is because we have wrongly allowed the fundamental law to be broken because the conditions for the creation of something are not met. And it's not fair whether we're polite to people or not. It's not fair and it's not fair. Once again, I speak from experience. In the Slovenian National Party, therefore, the plus or minus key will not be pressed at all, we will not, because we estimate that our relationship is not "fair", is not fair and that it is double-faced and we propose, once again publicly, to the Government that listens to us, change already, kindly please, the legislation on local self-government and start to think about whether it would not be good to start the process of combining small municipalities into larger than vice versa. I think it would be fair, and I think it would be the same for doubt million Slovenia. I'm not saying we're right, but please think about it. It'll make life easier. We'll all have some of it. In this way, I fear that new, small municipalities will live with themselves in great poverty, with such a way of developing the economy and financing the transfer of tasks, and that they will remain alone in great poverty, and I will not afford one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u16	Your Honor! If we look at what we have today on the agenda, of course, the question is whether this point is even necessary and how to deal with it. At today's meeting, we have under item 1 the report of the Republic Election Commission, which unquestionably identifies the results. We also have the attached report of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that, when there were no complaints to this report by the Republic Election Commission, this report is legally binding. Is there any room for discussion, is it even allowed for the "luxuries" of Members to be discussed at this point, purely for all? We in the Liberal Democracy Club believe that no, there was a preliminary debate, and there will be a law that must follow this point today. Of course, we might ask ourselves, Is such a set point of the National Assembly even meaningful? For when it comes to finding the results and, of course, hypothetically, it would be an opportunity only to object to the results, not to discuss what the congregations actually mean, how this process should be conducted or not. We believe, in the Liberal Democracy, that there will still be ways to change and deal with the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Community Financing, the Law on Landscapes and even a number of things that relate to this area. Today we only have a debate on a segment that actually relates to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. We are discussing that, on the basis of our decisions, people also had the right to plead, have declared themselves, the Republic Election Commission has finally compiled, counted, counted, etc., all the votes and submitted a report. We agree with the report at the parliamentary club, because we believe that democratic order in this country is such that the electoral commission in the field and then in the entire structure, even until the last instance, this report is correct and as it has been established, so we will, I do not know exactly what the decision will be to vote on the day, but we will certainly support that we agree that the results found at these referendums are correct and that we also take note of the High Court's communication that these decisions, or that this report by the electoral commission, are legally binding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Luka Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support the Social Democrats' decision, which identifies the current situation. At the same time, we ask one important question, and this is: What local self-government do we want in Slovenia? The question is whether we want strong congregations, congregations that can promote development, and who can be a strong, effective interlocutor with the state. Of course, I said a strong congregation, which does not always mean and in any case a large congregation, but it means that there is a greater likelihood that the congregation will be strong, that it will be able to promote development if it is large, if it represents a large number of people, and in so far as it means simplification and greater efficiency in the exercise of local self-government. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary and expected that this will happen in a short time, to change the way the municipalities are financed, which should start to promote merger and not disunity. In Slovenia, we do not have a single case of merging two or more municipalities into one, while this practice is well known in other countries in Europe. In addition, opportunities for the active participation of the local population in the democratic process, through various forms of civil society and through institutional forms such as local communities should be strengthened. Finally, the desire for local government to be able to promote development, which not only means new asphalt and sidewalks, but means the possibility that the municipality is an active promoter of economic and social development in a given area. Therefore, we believe that Slovenia can be more successful at the local level if the municipalities are strong, united and large, while we are aware that in the end there is a last word for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues, while I am aware that the nature of parliamentary democracy is debated, I remind you, however, that you are trying to focus on the proposal for a decision on the declaration of decisions taken at the referendums and, if possible, do not open up all possible, otherwise important questions concerning local self-government, because there are other points and other places where we could discuss this. I give the word to Franz Puksich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! Why there are also new congregations after four mandates. It may also be because, during the previous term or at that time, we failed to establish the provinces. One such attempt to draw up all the legislation was, however, the ruling coalition, despite different forecasts and coordination in the drafting of legislation after it was crucial, did not cooperate and did not provide the necessary two-thirds majority of the votes. In this country, however, it has finally been shown that with the 1994 local self-government, we have actually developed on quality of life and on municipal infrastructure throughout the country where we set up new municipalities. This trend has obviously not stopped and still appears necessary. The question is why so many mandates are taking place. Obviously, legislation is more like elastic, as it is explained by the ruling coalition in its own way. And even in these cases, it turned out that the congregations had received and had been held where the proponent was a government coalition. If we had legislation that automatically allows the establishment of municipalities to those who meet the conditions, but not so politically, it would be better for the development of local self-government and for the quality of life of people. I think that Phare had an idea about the congregations 15 years ago, if we were to get it legal at the time, we wouldn't be doing that anymore, for years and years now, and these things would go well, according to the quality of life that people live and do. Throughout the years, congregations have proved to be more successful. The reason why there are no associations of municipalities is that all those who have been created have actually lagged behind some local development centres so much that it will take some time, but I am confident that after regionalisation there will also be a merger of individual municipalities. Let it be the interest of people, not the interest of politics, as is now the exclusive interest of politics and disunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Lucky friend has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll take your word for it. You said, if possible, let's focus on what was accepted as referendum will. If that is the last word, the word of the electorate, then it is entirely irrelevant that we have seven hours of debate today. I don't know why we have it. As we speak of the newly formed congregations, we must say the following. The basis for such an act is law and marriage is bad. He is weak because, in fact, he allows basically 5,000 heads of the crowd to do his congregation, regardless of whether they are city attributes or not and so on, or if there are specific demographic circumstances, it can also be done in a smaller group of 2,000 or more people. If we sum up, of course, the practice that is present in the world today, that big people unite, it may be asked by any individual here in this Chamber, why we share power, interest, capital, knowledge, of course, why we also do such municipalities that are capital-inadequate and then are burdensome, I will say, budgets in our business, why is this allowed? I see a basic original sin in marriage. It's a bad marriage. And in these difficult times, speaking of recession, it is, of course, unacceptable to me. But we cannot go against what is expressed in the referendum. The outcome of the referendum can, of course, be commented on, even if only 100 participants were at the referendum, this outcome is credible and only 51 of these 100 decided to set up a new congregation. That's the law. These are the stupidities and the anomalies that are written in marriage. I would consider all those who write such stupid laws to consider in the future if they could not change the law. Because, after all, this also reflects the quality of life, and sooner or later those who have decided in some euphoria, of course, also out of a semi-private interest in reaching out for propaganda and supporting the establishment of a new congregation, will experience a bad life. Poor life in these congregations is soon to be felt, if not for the other reason, and because these small congregations are so inadequate and totally dependent on the state. We're creating new social problems. If we can't do anything else, we don't have to clap. I consider this to be a very unwise act, we should pool capital, knowledge, territoriality, sobriety and, of course, university power, that would be the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I am happy, or it is a little late, but from the heart comes the realization that we are making a decision today. I have not seen anything wrong with these referendums, that there would be any errors, what complaints and, of course, that is why I accept these results as a fact and that is how my vote will be. I will make sure of this, as will the Group of Members. Of course, we have talked more or less about these matters in the congregations and will talk about them in this place, but at another point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I wonder, however, what we are planning here today for 7 hours of debate on the matter, as mentioned in the proposal, that, on the basis of Article 53b of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative in the National Assembly, a decision should be taken or announced, a decision taken at the referendum on the establishment of municipalities, or a change in their areas on 8 November 2009. It is, in fact, an endorsement of the decision and I do not know why this debate is taking place. However, if I go a little further, my personal position as well as the position of the Slovenian National Party is known, we are in principle against the fragmentation of the geographical or political territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We have already expressed this at the committee meeting. On the other hand, we respect the referendum will of the people and so do we. If only the referendum could always be useful for other issues. But there is something that we, as my party colleagues have already said, should be revised or amended by the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, because it appears that this fragmentation of the territory in the municipalities will continue. Who cares? I have a feeling that every authority in some way uses the ancient Roman river "divine et impera" or the domestic "department and rule". The results are visible in many regions in Slovenia, which is, for example, heavily fragmented. So let's say the Pomur region, the Prekmur region, where there are as many as 27 municipalities in a relatively small area, one more poor than the other, one more struggling to survive, some already in debt so far that I don't know how they'll survive in the future. I mean one municipality in Goričkem, Prekmurje, which is most in charge of the entire Republic. The 2010 forecasts are alarming. So it's gonna be less money. For 2011, I have a feeling that there will be bankruptcy in a number of small congregations. And now, I don't know if there's anything to think about about how it's going to be financed now that there's going to be even more, and I'm almost sure there's going to be renewed initiatives and expressions of will to crush the congregations. Finally, as we have seen, the court has complied with these requirements of the congregation. So, I don't know what we can do here today, but we can confirm this conclusion. All the rest of the debate is a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since there have been already two or three questions on the basis of which these points are to be discussed for so long, I would say, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that, in accordance with the second and third paragraphs of Article 67, the leaders of the parliamentary groups have declared time for discussion and debaters to consider myself as President of the National Assembly, and also to the one who will take my place in the management of the refunds, there is no other option but to conduct this meeting in an exemplary manner and to ask you, if possible, to limit yourself to a decision. And I, as I said, will not restrict you, even if you can't limit yourself. At the College, I proposed that this point be considered so that only the parliamentary groups would have time to discuss for five minutes and that they would not have had a debate of Members, but that was not accepted. So I made a constructive proposal myself, but it was not agreed. So much for that. Willy Rezman has the word if he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u28	Yes, I do, Mr. President. If we want to stick to what has been suggested to be just a finding, we should remain silent because there is not much to talk about. However, it seems that there has been a process in which many citizens and citizens participated in the referendums, as well as in the debates in Parliament, there have been many discussions about this. Therefore, it is probably right that these discussions be concluded in some way. Today is one of those opportunities. And since there has been a lot of warning about unnecessary waste of time, I promise that I will not participate in the discussion on the next three points, so I will now explain the fundamental position on the fragmentation of Slovenia. I am sure that these referendums also point to the need to change local self-government in Slovenia at both levels, both legislative and empirical, because the fact that people already feel the need to change the boundaries of our communities is a matter of very serious problems, but the question is whether we are taking them seriously enough and in the right way. I am convinced that local self-government must change so that those living at this fundamental level will indeed have some autonomy, autonomous power and the necessary resources to regulate their lives at the primary level. This certainly requires some right in terms of human resources, which requires some critical mass of material conditions for the lives of local communities, as well as finance and everything else, which probably does not need to be listed now. I am sure that we are not doing this by crushing Slovenia, but by crushing Slovenia in the opposite direction. We are working, not all of us, who are going in this direction, to continue the part of the urbanisation of Slovenia, to continue the attempt to legalise everything. I believe that this is also going in the direction where the right developmental cores are limited when heavy metal balls are hanging on their feet, which are harder to move, so I am convinced that I acted precisely in the previous mandate when I objected to the fragmentation and the procedure that was involved, and I will also act in the future, even on these occasions. However, I think it is clear that if we go so far as to continue to receive new, smaller, informational congregations and at the same time threaten with three provinces to give them their thirst, then centralisation will be almost complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that I will undermine, so to speak, the conclusion on the declaration of the results of the referendum of the citizens of the local community of Ankaran and Mirne. I would just like to say that I have agreed to this initiative by one of the initiators for the establishment of the Mirna municipality, because the merger of the Mirna municipality with the Municipality of Mokronog Trebelno and the Municipality of Šentrupert into the Municipality of Mirna Valley is announced. The municipality of Trebnje and the mayor, of course, have prevented this option in order to make it easier to implement projects that could already be implemented together. This was the reason that if this goes in this direction, then we will experience the continuation of the fragmentation of the congregations of the first association and this was the main motive that I am co-signatory of the initiative and I hope that this matter will be realized. As it is said, today we are only talking about the decision, the declaration of results, I will support this and then we will discuss the laws, the possible establishment of new municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I will quote the decision, we decide and we talk about this first point, a decision that says: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia declares that they were at the referendum on the establishment of municipalities or the modification of their areas, which was carried out on 8 November following the decree of the National Assembly and so on. Glagoli, sermon: advertises, is an executive fact, meaning an executive fact. In the case of, say, that this decision would not have been adopted, I do not see how we would have understood the conclusion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia does not declare that such decisions and decisions were taken at the referendum. What am I trying to say? While I respect your will and the will of all Members and Members to give you the opportunity to talk about it. Here, I'll give it to you perfectly. I also ask you to listen to people who will tell and warn of the shortcomings that arise. Indeed, we will meet with them and indeed, in my opinion, we will use today's time on the following points, points 2, 3 and 4, when we hear a lot about how we are uneven in relation to each other and everything will be carried out at the opening, that it is not fair and it is not right that we need a new step. In order not to misunderstand, Mr President, it is right that you have given the opportunity to debate, and it is right that you will also allow all of us to tell us that such a way of working and such a way of deciding for several years has not been fair to citizens and citizens, and that we will finally realize that it is here in the vast majority of the political interests which, once again, without being accused by one or the other, are completely equal every four years. One side works with the new congregations for the election base for the national elections, the next, and the other side the same. But if this is the basis for the formation of new municipalities and for the fulfilment of the wishes of the countrymen, citizens and citizens, then I will never agree with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u33	The word is Franco Yuri. We're talking about the conclusion, not Ankaran.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your warning, my colleague, Mr President. Let me first express my support for this decision and, of course, I will vote in favour, because this is a decision that is irrefutable. If we have a decision on the fact - and the fact is that the results of the referendum or referendums are, as they are - I do not think there is any dilemma as to how we will vote today. This, of course, raises the question of the meaning of this debate and this vote, which is very much a reminder of the debates and the vote on the confirmation of the mandates of the Members themselves or of the approval of the mandates of the municipal councilors or of the confirmation of the resignations of the municipal councillors. You know that there are stories that are actually hindering the normal functioning of some institutions around these pointless debates, at least in our congregation, this has happened recently. But, of course, in the referendums on the establishment of new municipalities, it is necessary to consider, for the first time, as has already been said, the Law on Local Self-Government itself, where in fact we can find the original sin that promotes the formation of new congregations. And here, of course, I mean the original sin of the jurisdiction of the congregations themselves. The law is written on the skin of small municipalities and will always suffer larger municipalities where local communities, which were sometimes a factor of co-decision in these municipalities, have lost all competences and that is why we can expect tensions and conflicts and 'dialectics' that will lead to the final restructuring of local self-government in Slovenia. So it is time to think about legislation, which at the same time has a hole and, of course, makes it possible for those criteria that are necessary and the conditions necessary for the establishment of a new congregation to be played with special circumstances. This can also remind us of the dilemmas of international law about righteousness. However, legislation also allows and, as long as legislation is in place, these referenda and these requirements will be legal and legitimate. So the results that we are concluding today and voting on today are certainly legitimate. You specifically asked me not to talk about Ankaran. Of course, I will not talk about Ankaran, but about some of the contradictions that were born on the occasion of the last referendums, which he mentioned or mentioned to a certain extent at the beginning of the presentation of the views of his parliamentary group. In fact, it makes no sense for an external observer to find two referendums which are excluded and at the same time both legitimate and legal. We have two results that are not clear from the point of view of the dictatorship, which is the basis of both referendums. Let me make it clear that there were two separate, different referendums. The first was the referendum, which was completely legitimate, because it was created on the basis of a civil initiative, i.e. directly interested countrymen and also obtained the majority. And exactly the result proves that that referendum was not only legal but also legitimate and will have to be respected. The second referendum was an expression of the opportunity that legislation offers in the performance of legitimate referendums. It was an experiment, it was a political manoeuvre to prevent a referendum that was created on the basis of a civil initiative. So a voting machine in the municipal council invented a referendum on the division of the great Koper Congregation into four small congregations, which no one in Cyprus really wants. So it was, it was important to stress this difference between the two referendums, where they are both legal, but at the same time they do not have the same level of legitimacy. And that is why I will be happy to support today's conclusion that one referendum was successful because it was legitimate. And the second referendum, an illegal referendum, about four Cypriot congregations that no one wanted, failed. And so, with pleasure, I will support this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Neither will I talk too much about the congregation of Mirna, although first of all sincere congratulations will be given to those who have so overwhelmingly supported this decision or the decision to go into the process of establishing their congregation. There is now an ongoing debate on this, otherwise the conclusion, but it is only right that this decision or even the reasons why people decide to give the initiative at all to reach the referendum. The National Assembly was the one who accepted these initiatives and put them into parliamentary procedure. The decision was made by people in different parts of Slovenia and they will probably still be. But why? Because it has been discovered that the newly formed congregation can make that place or that former local community more rapid. Today we have 210 municipalities in Slovenia, and I am sure that none of them develops more slowly than they would under the umbrella of a larger congregation. The conclusion that some municipalities will go bankrupt, I think this fear is too much, but I fear that the country will go bankrupt first. Either way, by establishing a new congregation, people and such a desire are gaining, such an initiative will always come, and we will have to decide whether or not to accept these things. It would be right to respect people's will, but now to invoke the law, whether this law is good or not, whether it is right to take it into account in detail or not, this is a matter of discussion. Finally, the National Assembly is the one who can decide on these matters. However, we can change the law, but I am sure that the norms set out in this law for the congregations are also "disputable". Who says that just this number of people can be an optimist that provides development or greater development? Things are always likely to be specific for each environment. As I said, each newly formed congregation developed faster. And that is also the reason that people are constantly being urged or directed to make decisions about these initiatives. And where is the solution? I am sure that if we had regions where, with the help of the regions, individual environmental interests could be resolved to some greater extent, such a desire would probably be significantly less. But given that Slovenia has been centralised for many years, it is with the help of the newly formed municipalities that decentralisation was at least partially carried out. To enable even the most remote places, of course, by funding from the budget for the operation of these municipalities to develop faster, let it be in the area of municipal infrastructure, road, schools, kindergartens, everything. And that's what people want for new congregations. That is why I am firmly convinced - especially now this is an appeal to the Government and the coalition - if you come with the coalition the promised regional legislation to start working on reaching out to its regions, there will probably be fewer such initiatives. For when people see that within a group of congregations joining the region, they may seek and realize their own desires and interests, they will not seek a solution like that of the newly formed congregation. I agree that each newly formed congregation has, in fact, a larger congregation in that umbrella, some of the bad points that could result in a slightly slower development of that larger congregation. But that doesn't stop the smaller one from developing faster. I'm going to support this decision, because the other one is not really to be expected. I also supported the call for a referendum and, of course, I will also support it if we have the opportunity to make decisions about the law that will set up the newly formed Mirna Congregation, because I am sure that if most of them choose to do so, they will be able to develop faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please. He doesn't want to. The word is Bell Lach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would also like to stick to the contents of the point itself, but my colleagues have discussed quite a bit in general before me. And the majority against the smaller municipalities spoke of the 13th Article, which provides for a minimum of 5,000 inhabitants. Let me say that we have more than half of the municipality in Slovenia in violation of this law. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development also voted against such decisions, not by these decisions, but against the decisions of the following points by many mayors of larger municipalities who met the conditions of Article 13: 5,000. But what can we say about the 5,000 inhabitants, what is the limit? I am sure that it is not in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government that this limit, once placed, was so artificially placed, without any interpretation or talk here, how certain municipalities cannot survive. Have you noticed any initiative to abolish the congregation, to unite the congregations? I haven't done it yet. With the new year, or this year, all the infrastructure needed to be transferred to the municipality in the management of public enterprises, it will be possible to pull together quickly, how much added value, how much infrastructure, or what value this infrastructure has built in due course. It's an added value to me. And when this is compared to the population of larger municipalities, we will also find the reason why mayors of larger municipalities are against small municipalities. Indeed, small congregations burden us with libraries, museums, theaters, and I do not know what else because we do not have it. It is right to co-finance, but I am only of the opinion that mayors of major municipalities go to tie in theatres, museums, but do not walk in remote villages and see where the sewers and plumbing are needed. They are therefore against such small congregations. The essence is the responsibility of small congregations, nothing else. We are now mixing the jurisdiction of the municipalities with the provinces, with another level of local self-government. However, if you want larger municipalities, you have one large municipality where the mayor is stronger than the President of the Government. Or would you need a congregation that large? What you're making up is government. I believe that the case of the referendum in the area of the future municipality of Mirna is clear evidence where voters decided almost 90% for the municipality, where the analysis was well done by what the new municipality meant to them, and found that if they were independent, they would have three times as much funding for investments as they now receive from the municipality of Trebnje, especially for municipal roads, water and sewerage. For investments that are urgently needed, the basic municipal public infrastructure for which the state has committed itself to Europe to build it by a specific date. I don't understand that, even by the government, when they know that certain investments have to be made because a promise has been made to Europe, they don't know how. And that it is the small congregations that have done the most in this area so far. And these small congregations are doing everything for us, especially for the government, not to see it, really saddens me. I am sure that even if there are new initiatives for the establishment of municipalities in four years' time, the referendums will be roughly the same as they were in the Mirna area. Today we have three more points where we do not want to allow three more areas to check their will to establish their congregation under the same conditions as the local community of Mirna. Areas with respect to Article 13 [[5,000 inhabitants]] Better terms. I do not understand certain debaters and, in view of the debate at the meeting of the Local Self-Government Committee, I would also like certain mayors not to be Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate on the proposal for a decision. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision. The assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Point of the agenda - Defence proposal for a finding decision that the proposal for the initiation of a procedure for the establishment of a community of goods and for the determination of its area does not fulfil the conditions for the establishment of a municipality. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the decision, President of the Committee of Renati Brunskole, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much. At its 5th session, on 1 December 2009, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development reopened the proposal to set up the Dobrova municipality, the proposed Member of Milan Gumzar, as the working body of the Administrative Court on the basis of its judgment of 9.11.2009. The Committee was informed of all the documents contained in the proceedings so far concerning the establishment of this municipality, namely, the opinion of the Municipal Council, the opinion and the proposal of the Government and the judgment of the Administrative Court. In its opinion on the proposals for the establishment of municipalities of 2 July 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assessed that the proposal for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality did not meet the conditions laid down in Article 139 of the Constitution, since the area of the municipality was not concluded. Following the re-examination of the proposal to set up a municipality at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Government explained that the opinion of 2 July 2009 is binding and in principle does not support the further process of setting up municipalities for which it considers that it is unable to carry out legal tasks. In her view, the proposal to establish the Dobrova Congregation was an example of two small congregations from the relatively large Dobrova Congregation, Polhov Gradec, whose elements are fully in line with the legal conditions. While the Law on Local Self-Government provides that the National Assembly may exceptionally set up them, the Government has recently found that more and more such municipalities have been created on the basis of the fulfilment of exceptional conditions and have difficulty in carrying out the tasks ahead of them. It considered that in determining whether an area fulfils the conditions for setting up a municipality, the National Assembly should be governed by Article 15 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides for how the territory of municipalities can be changed and when a municipality can be established. She pointed out that the proposal for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality was submitted as a proposal to define part of the area from the current municipality of Dobrova, Polhov Gradec. In this case, the part of the municipality in which the seat of the municipality established by law shall be excluded. As a result, the remainder of the municipality’s territory, which is half of it, would be established by a decision of the National Assembly by law as a municipality, and by what constitutional elements does the proposal for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality not specify. The Government therefore considered that the proposal was not drafted in accordance with the Constitution and the law for these reasons. Furthermore, the proposal remains unconstitutional as the proposed area of the new Dobrova municipality is not territorially concluded because it includes the village of Selo. The proposed municipality would have about 3,700 people and the rest of the municipality would have 3,500 people. In this case, other conditions must also be met. For example, historically, geographically, economically and similarly, which would justify the decision of the National Assembly in this area to establish a congregation. The government considers that the key legal condition for setting up a congregation is primarily in its ability to manage statutory tasks and thus its constitutional role. In the debate at the meeting of the Committee, arguments were expressed, relying on the judgement of the Administrative Court, both by the proposer and by some members of the Committee. That the proposed area fulfils the condition laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government for the establishment of a new congregation of Dobrova. The Committee also adopted a decision proposing to the Government that, until today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, an additional opinion be drawn up on the basis of the decisions of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposals for the establishment of the municipalities of Dobrova, Fram and Zgornja Polska. On the basis of the reasons set out in the proposal by the proposer and the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government proposal, the Committee decided that the proposal for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality did not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality and invited the National Assembly to take the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for a joint introductory explanation of the opinion on agenda items 2, 3 and 4. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u42	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before presenting to you the additional opinion of the Government on the proposal to set up three new municipalities, I must reiterate that the Government does not favour the establishment of new municipalities. Now there are 210 municipalities in Slovenia [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u43	Please peace in the hall, Mr Jerovšek. No phone calls!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u44	and you have already found that more than 50% of them do not meet the basic criteria or criteria of 5,000 inhabitants. [[...]] And to this number today are proposals for new ones. The Government adopted an additional opinion on the proposals for the establishment of new municipalities of Dobrova, Fram and Zgornja Polska on the basis of the decision of the home working body of the National Assembly, which it adopted on the re-examination of the proposals submitted for the establishment of those municipalities on the basis of the judgments of the Administrative Court. The content of the additional opinion concerns the compatibility of the proposals with the provisions of the Constitution and the law establishing a procedure for changing the territory of the municipality and for setting up a new municipality and laying down the conditions to be met for the establishment of a new municipality in the light of the capacity to meet the needs and interests of the population and to fulfil other tasks in accordance with the law. With regard to the proposals for the establishment of the municipalities of Dobrova, Fram and Zgornja Polska, the Government considers that the conditions for the continuation of the procedure are not met. In the case of proposals for the establishment of new municipalities Dobrova and Fram, these are proposals which divide the present municipality into two identical works and, consequently, both works would not meet the legal requirements regarding the number of inhabitants. Since in both cases it is proposed to separate part of the area from the current municipalities of Dobrova - Polhov Gradec and Rače - Fram, which otherwise meet the constitutional and legal conditions for municipalities, their amended areas should meet the conditions for the municipality in order to establish the proposed new municipalities in accordance with the Constitution and the laws in order to continue the procedure by law. That a new congregation may be established if the majority of voters who voted in this part of the congregation decide to hold a referendum, and if both parts of the congregation so arise, they also meet the conditions for the new congregation. We find that this is not the case in both cases. In both cases, it would be necessary, in accordance with Article 139 of the Constitution and with the provisions of the Law, to carry out a full preliminary procedure to determine the conditions and reasons for the exceptional establishment of new municipalities in the rest of the two present municipalities. This can be done only on the basis of a proposal for the distribution of the congregation, where a referendum is held throughout the congregation. The Government therefore considers that the proposals for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova and Fram municipality run counter to Article 14, paragraph 39, and Article 14, paragraph 3, of the Law on Local Self-Government. The Government considers that the National Assembly has not acted arbitrarily in both cases so far, since the cases differ significantly from those in which it has decided to call for a referendum to establish a municipality. After re-checking the condition for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska, the Government notes that the proposed area does not meet the condition under the first indent of Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which requires that a complete primary school is provided in the area in which the new municipality is established, since the proposed area is an incomplete six-year primary school. There are 2,600 inhabitants living in the area of the municipality of Zgornja Polska. Since the criteria set out in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government are taken into account as a whole in setting up municipalities, the Government notes that the proposed area does not meet all the conditions for establishing a new municipality. In summary, the Government notes in all three of these cases that the conditions for continuation of the procedure have not been met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SLS Group will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers with coworkers! Our position is on points 2, 3 and 4, so I will present it at point 2, and then we will not repeat ourselves at the next 3 and 4 points. By now, the Constitutional Court of RS has repeatedly stated that the National Assembly should not act arbitrarily and arbitrarily in assessing whether the legal conditions for the establishment of a municipality are provided for, but should respect the principle of equal treatment of proposals. Unfortunately, this happens in every term. Thus, it follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court of RS that the National Assembly must consider the legal criteria for the establishment of municipalities in accordance with the principle of equality. Since it has dealt with them very mildly in the past, it must also continue to do so, since the number of inhabitants is not an exclusive criterion for assessing compliance with the conditions for setting up a municipality. Above all, it is only by means of individual explanations that a decision based on the whole procedural material on the procedure for setting up individual municipalities can be taken to determine whether we have acted in accordance with the principle of equality and the rule of law, or whether we have arbitrarily deviated from it and have not done the same in all cases. We also talk about the fragmentation of congregations many times. It is a fact that until the legislation provides a truly fair, even development, all countries, individual groups of citizens see the possibility of a better and better life only in their own congregation. Many examples even show that small congregations are more successful. But the question here is, of course, how successful would we be if we had a landscape in this beautiful country on the sunny side of the Alps? In the Slovenian People's Party, we are surprised by the negative position of the Committee and the negative position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, given the clear position and decision of the Administrative Court on the three municipalities mentioned above. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always supported the establishment of municipalities and the question is that even after 15 years of the start of the community-building process, after the second half of the financial perspective, we are still engaged in the establishment of municipalities. This should be the responsibility of the policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The conclusion that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality and the establishment of its territory do not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality is also a decision to be confirmed by the DeSUS Group. In our programme, the DeSUS program says that we are against further division of territories into small congregations. And this is also the guide that is primarily in mind when we decide on this negative decision. Above all, we are convinced of the facts that have been told by the Minister, by the Government and by the mother body. We fully agree that there is a need to stop this process, which sometimes also limits to saying that it is somehow a fitting nature. See, since 1990, when we had 60 congregations, and by 2002, when we listed 147, and today, when we have 210, we can only ask ourselves what will happen if this process continues as it is set, and if we do not act in some way. It is also clear to us in the DeSUS Group that there is a great reason for the Local Self-Government Act to take this law in its own way when it comes to the interests of some smaller groups. In a specific case where we are in favour of stopping the procedure for establishing the Dobrova municipality and determining its territory, we also consider that even if the Dobrova area is excluded, Polhov Gradec remains, which meets all the conditions for the establishment of the municipalities. Will boomerang return to the Hall of the National Assembly so that he will have to establish in some special way a congregation that will remain in the division of Dobrova and Polho’s Gradac. A lot of things and a lot of arguments should still be mentioned when we advocate the indivision of municipalities into smaller parts. Let me say that many times we stress that in Europe we are witnessing the gathering of municipalities into larger units, greater wholeness, that, after all, these small municipalities, which have ambitions to become municipalities or to divide themselves into smaller parts, should also look in some way at the retrograde procedures carried out by some small municipalities, when they are either merging with the common municipal authorities or joint institutions in larger institutions, which are more capable of enabling what is the duty to enable local communities. When dividing into smaller parts, we certainly fear in the DeSUS Group that these smaller municipalities will be unable to ensure the perception of all public goods to all those living in the area. And there are many reasons why we are committed to halting the process of further fragmentation and in some way modifying the Law on Local Self-Government, that this should also be enhanced by the preparation of the law on landscapes, and then, in the DeSUS Group, we are confident, there will be fewer of these ambitions that we have witnessed so far. We will not support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u50	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps the words spoken on behalf of the Slovenian National Party in point 1 were superfluous. But they were honest, and it's right that they were. And the proof of everything that's been said is here now. I have in my hand the proposed conclusions for three referendum areas that would like to be municipalities: Dobrova, Fram and Zgornja Polskava. All three conclusions are negative in this case. This means that the Government estimates that the municipality of Dobrova, the municipality of Fram and the municipality of Zgornja Polska do not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. But you know, colleagues and colleagues, a certificate of duplicity. For a normal person, there is enough information that all the municipalities listed, including the first, which I will not appoint, because I have nothing against that congregation, I want only to be principled on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and equal to all, the first, who received the right to hold the referendum, has just over three thousand inhabitants such as Dobrova, Fram and Zgornja Polska. Three grand and something else! She's got the right to hold a referendum, these three don't get the right to hold a referendum. You don't have to be a doctor or a master of science to find out that this is an act that we're talking about today in a beautiful and sophisticated way done wrong. The best thing to say is that it is our interest, that it is possible to hold a referendum and that the congregation will be, and there is not our interest, and we will not allow it, but we will find a solution. And the government, here I have an explanation for the government, additionally, found it. She went through Article 13a and found and found a set of shortcomings that do not allow or prevent a referendum at all, or they already stipulate that Dobrova, Fram and Gornja Polska cannot be a congregation. It's not fair, it's not fair to those who had at least a referendum. And I'm not going to give up, and I'm going to make sure that one meets Article 13a or two or three or not. True, Article 13a is exactly the same: provides for an exception, a municipality with a population of more than two thousand if it fulfils demographic, geographical, historical and other conditions. And every one of them if he wants them, and he'll find them. First proof that an exception has become a rule. Another time. It bothers me, on the one hand, to speak to the decisions of the Constitutional Court and to respect them, decisions of the Supreme Court must be respected, decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. When we're so comfortable. When we don't feel right, sometimes we don't have to, because we're assessing that there's been an injustice and we're not going to give it to this court. And next time, the same person who did the second time, as I said, is not going to give the Constitutional Court or the Administrative Court an answer to the Administrative Court or the Constitutional Court and say, we have to give him the right one because his interests will be such. I think we should and should have, colleagues and colleagues, face to those who elected us, and to those who accompany us, and say, I will resent all those who want to have a new congregation, but I have said so. The Slovenian national party is not and will no longer support the new municipalities, because they will not survive because we do not want any more state budget cuts, which already does not have money. We do not want poverty in these municipalities, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us treat everyone equally. If we have kept our doors locked and opened for three, two, six, in particular, the congregations, we will leave the same conditions for all. It is clear that at the moment when we open the door and give the opportunity for a referendum, the referendum is expected to succeed and we will have the next extraordinary session, whose conclusion will be announced under point 1: The National Assembly declares. And the result would be the same. And today we could announce six new congregations. So we're just gonna be one, or two, or three, or none. It's not fair and it's not fair. Even in this case, the Slovenian National Party will not press no plus, not minus, because we do not think this is fair. I'd like to say another word: The truth is inevitable. Fear can hide her. Ignorance can despise her. Evil is usually wrong, but the truth is always there.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u52	Well-known, distinguished Minister of State with co-workers, President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we respect the party program in which we wrote that the process of fragmentation of Slovenia in several municipalities should be restricted or even stopped. We also note that the establishment of municipalities in the countryside has contributed to the rapid development of both that part of the countryside and that part of Slovenia. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia voted on our own conscience and conviction in the last vote to initiate the procedure for the establishment of municipalities. It should be pointed out, however, that legislation in the field of local self-government and the setting up of municipalities is very inaccurate and allows for a lot of room for such or different interpretation, which we have also heard today, whether the borders are 2,000 or 5,000 or 15,000 inhabitants, or whether such or other conditions for the establishment of municipalities are given. We are today before the re-decision, and this decision has been imposed on us by the Administrative Court, which ruled that the proposed area does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality. And if we want to follow the verdict and the explanation, today we only have to vote that the proposed area meets the conditions for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality. In the LDS, we want to respect the rule of law, the rule of law and the decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as other courts, so Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will vote against the decision that the proposed area does not meet the conditions for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u54	Nice greetings to all present! Does the fragmentation of municipalities allow for strong local self-government and decentralisation? In our opinion, no. From a territorial and functional point of view, the reform of local self-government in Slovenia has gone too far. From one extreme to the other, from the greatest to the smallest and with the State powers overburdened and severely tempted congregations. Over-centralisation took place at those levels formerly performed by the congregations. The principle of subsidiarity, which ensures that public affairs are carried out at the level at which they can be carried out more effectively, more in accordance with the specific circumstances, more efficiently and cost-effectively and as close as possible to people, is not respected. This is one of the reasons for the lack of effective functioning of the entire state regime. The local self-government is a constitutional category in Slovenia, but Slovenia remains the most centralised country in the European Union despite the formation of municipalities. That is why it is also our view today that we do not support the call for referendums to establish new congregations that want to be excluded from such small congregations. The Commune of Dobrova would be such an example. The current municipality of Dobrova-Polhov Gradec has some over 7,000 inhabitants. This fulfils all the legal conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. Exclusion would create two municipalities, one would have about 3,700 inhabitants, and the other would have about 3,500. Various opinions from local communities in this congregation also show that they are not excited about sharing. Some reason for this by dividing the congregation into a stronger part, this is Dobrava, and later part of Polhov Gradec. With the proposed exclusion of the area, it would be extended to the constituent constituents of Dobrova-Polhov Gradec municipality, the actual area and the name of the seat, so that the remaining part of the municipality would no longer meet the conditions for the municipality. Thus, under Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, this fact could no longer be rectified in the legislative procedure. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed decision in the Group of Social Democrats, so that the proposal to initiate a procedure for the establishment of municipalities and to determine its territory does not meet the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Milan Čadež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u56	The Law on Local Self-Government provides that a part of the municipality which covers the area of the settlement or several neighbouring settlements may be removed from the municipality and established as a new municipality if the majority of the electorate who voted so decides, and if both parts of the municipality also meet the conditions for the new congregation. In the SDS Group in the accompanying letters, we fully understand the opposition of the local community of Črni Vrh and Polhov Gradec that the congregation will be divided into a richer and weaker part and that it is therefore unacceptable for them. They say that so far there has been more investment in the local community of Dobrova as the center of the congregation. However, we must stress that the applicant fulfils all the legal requirements. In the SDS Group, however, we support the ruling of the Administrative Court, which decided to comply with the action and to challenge the decision of the National Assembly of 25. 9. 2009, following the conclusion that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality by excluding part of the areas of Dobrova Polhov Gradec municipality does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality, is abolished and in this part the matter is returned to the defendant for re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the debate of Members and Members, I would like to inform you that the SDS Group has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a decision proposing that the decision be amended by finding in the first paragraph that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of a municipality does not meet certain conditions by law, replaces the conclusion that the proposal meets the legal conditions. In so doing, I should point out that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, the National Assembly, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 14a, in the event that it considers that the conditions for the establishment of the municipality are not met, finds this in the form of a decision. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which prepared the proposal for a decision for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, proposed and proposed to the National Assembly that it find that the proposal for the establishment of a municipality does not meet the legal conditions and that decision will be voted on by the National Assembly. In the event that the delegation opposes such a text of the decision, it may vote against the decision and thus achieve the same effect as the amendment. In doing so, I note and point out once again Article 14a that a positive assessment of the fulfilment of the legal conditions is not substantively in the form of a decision, but rather in the form of a decree, which is also adopted by the National Assembly. As a result of these amendments to this proposal, I will not put the decision to the vote and to the vote. At the same time, I inform the National Assembly that if the proposed decision, as proposed by the parent working body, is not adopted, I will interrupt the agenda item so that the assembly services can draw up a proposal for a resolution on the invitation to a referendum. The SDS Group has also tabled the same amendment to agenda items 3 and 4 and my warning also applies to these two agenda items. If this Decision is not adopted, the point is suspended, the text of the decision on the invitation to tender should be drawn up. Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much again. Legislator, the National Assembly has passed the law. The legislator has written in the law, if any of the parties disagrees with what they may file an administrative dispute. The administrative dispute was brought and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall rule on behalf of the people, and shall order the legislator to remove the decision of the legislator and in this section the matter shall be returned to the defendant for re-decision. Good morning! What does that mean? The legislator and of course the government says, "what do I care about the Administrative Court, what do I care about the judgment on behalf of the people, we are a god and a beating, we are a leader, we are a coalition, we can do what we want." It doesn't matter what the court thinks, it doesn't matter what the law says, and like a bulldozer, we go through glass. And that's what you do, at all three points. Except, of course, where you were proposing, as discussed at point 1, the decree establishing the municipalities. Where the coalition is a candidate, that is true. And today some of the coalition come to realize that 110 congregations do not meet the conditions. You know, all of you, first look at the vote of your client colleagues from such or other coalitions, when they also supported those congregations that they proposed and not others. And if it wasn't voted out, if it didn't go through, it went to the Administrative Court. And there has never been such arrogance in any government coalition as it is in this one. Yeah, what do you think?Oh, my God! Oh, sorry, I forgot. Yesterday, the President of the Government announced structural reforms, the mayor- MP, the non-continuation of municipalities, electoral legislation. Yes, this will lead us to a solution to this crisis! By the way, that 2 billion a year, 1,000 euros per capita, is as much in 4 years as it was in 18 years. Please! On one occasion, one of the fellow Members of Parliament said for a speaker, in connection with the Constitutional Court's decision, "There is no God and there is no President if I were to respect it." That's what you're doing now. But there was something very, very small left of that great power of government. Messengers and Members, this is not how you treat people! They're not ordinary bags, they're not! And everyone should be subject to about the same vat, about the same meter. 110 do not meet all the legal requirements in different ways and are met by some. We had previously established a congregation that did not meet 5,000 people, but it did. In these three cases, however, it is different. I don't understand that anymore. Perhaps this crisis has had such an impact that even the mind has darkened some. And that's just not good. Neither the rulings nor the judgments of the Administrative Court are taken into account, even though this is what we have written down in the law itself. Well, yeah, maybe this last footnote by the administrative court needs to be read and imagined. The Court points out, however, that the contested decision is signed by the President of the National Assembly and has neither the stamp nor the head of the authority which issued it. The contested act is a decision and not a letter from the defendant informing the defendant of the decision. The second paragraph of Article 14a of the Law on Local Self-Government expressly provides that the defendant must send a decision to the applicant. It's a relationship. Please, I'm ashamed of you, but I'm really ashamed to have a man in this circus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. Procedurally, just a moment. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What you said a few minutes ago that you will not put our amendment proposal or our amendments into the process, I must say that this decision of yours does not hold up. If anything is at stake in the consideration of these three proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, the conclusion of the working body shall be that of the working body. The working body has adopted a decision and a decision which is inconsistent with Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. All of these municipalities, which we are currently talking about, meet all the conditions, both by the number of people and by all the other criteria, but the parent body has decided not to meet the conditions. If, Mr President, you were consistent in your conduct, then you would reject this proposal for a decision of your mother's working body. They would reject it, as you reject unjustifiablely or justifiably any other matters. However, in this case, you did not do as is stated in order to return it to the working body in order to decide as set out in the Law on Local Self-Government. That is why we have also proposed an amendment to all these three conclusions, and that is only to decide on a decision which is based on Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, it is clear that these municipalities meet all the conditions for setting up so that Members can decide otherwise - that they are against it. However, the basic definition of the body, the working body which assesses this, must be such and should be such as to meet the conditions. The decision not to support this procedure may be theirs. I doubt that any of the Members who participated in this meeting of the working body could interpret so freely that the condition of 2,000 in municipalities with all over 4,000 were not met. In one municipality, which has a substantially smaller population, this basic condition is met. As we see, the matter will go forward in the process and in the decision whether or not the new congregation will be established. What Members say that some groups, some areas are privileged, certainly is true. The municipality of Mirna has fewer inhabitants than any of the three who are rejected on the same working body. Perhaps the President of the National Assembly should at some time take the basis on which the National Assembly operates, also look at the law on local self-government, read the articles, and see whether the decision, the finding of the working body on this basis, is corrected or not. These three conclusions for these three points, which we will now address, are certainly not correct. And it is the amendment that corrects this basic conclusion that meets all the conditions. Or we will call a referendum in these three municipalities, even though they fulfil the conditions or not, this is a matter for a decision by the Members. Some won't. But a technical finding whether they meet the conditions or not, whether they're residents, whether it's a school, or anything else, and this actually has to stop. I propose, Madam President, that you put our amendments to these three points into normal treatment and procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Tanko! I do not have the discretion to reject the proposal to decide the parent's working body as it is, whether I agree with it or not. I don't have that right. Only the National Assembly of the Plenary may reject the proposal of the parent working body, in which case the decision that these municipalities are not suitable for the establishment of municipalities, whatever the decision is. However, if we want to have a decision of the assembly and the parent body to be appropriate, we should design this in the form of a decision to call for a referendum. Therefore, I have highlighted in particular what the decision on this proposal for a decision will be, if the decision is rejected, the point will be interrupted in order to prepare a resolution on the call for a referendum. Thus, the measure of whether these municipalities meet the criteria or not is given by an act of your vote in favour or against the decision. However, I cannot give a decision because rejection cannot be in any other form than in the form of a decision, while the approval for the referendum may be in the form of a decision. This limits me that your proposal for a decision, which is only a negative picture of the decision of the parent working body, would even put to the vote. If there is no such restriction, we may, after all, vote on such a decision whether we agree or not, depending on how it is formulated. But that's not all this is about. This is if we are inclined and believe that it fulfils the conditions, then we must make a proposal for a decision to be made, and the parent working body does not think so, so it has drawn up a proposal for a decision and you must decide on this decision first. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot take this into account. And I would also like to say that now is not the time for debate and debate at the plenary session, so, Mr Tanko, I will not give you another word in this regard. I've tried to explain to you very clearly why. Of course, we can talk about this on a business committee or anywhere, I am ready, but here I will not give you another word on this. Procedurally concerning what else?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u62	As far as the agenda is concerned, that's all I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u63	Okay, now I'm gonna have to break my word so I don't give a word. Here's your word. I'm in violation of myself, I'd say, Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural point of order. [[...]] I understand this is not your proposal for an amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u64	Dear President, I propose that the level of functioning of the National Assembly be slightly raised that this communication in the National Assembly is in the same way as it is supposed to be according to these ethical standards that govern this society. And the National Assembly is the place where everyone can, if they can't, say what they think. I'll say what I think again. If you adhere strictly to your decisions, then you could doubtless find that your mother's working body has adopted a decision that is not in line with Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. This could undoubtedly be identified, a small table should be made and the hooks should be made in those cases in which these candidates for the new municipalities meet the conditions and the minuses where they do not meet them. And that's for the ones you've confirmed before at the previous point. The fact is that these congregations meet the criteria, as did those we have previously dealt with. Under exactly the same conditions. And I regret that the President of the National Assembly also votes differently as decided by the Administrative Court. As I see it, he will vote again in a different way from that of a court which only determines legality or illegality. It is said that some in the National Assembly take the right and decide differently than the court decides. Not for the first time and probably not for the last time. But you put that on your own. I propose that, if we wish to properly implement this matter, we also correct the whole decision taken by the working body at this and the next two points as our amendment. It cannot be concluded here that the three proposals in question do not meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities. They meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities. Either we vote in favour or we don't. No, it's a matter of decision. However, the finding must be correct. And these congregations, these candidates, meet all the conditions for the establishment of congregations. All conditions, Madam President. After Articles 13 and 13.a. And if anyone else had complained to the Administrative Court, perhaps someone else would have met the conditions of those who had not complained. I propose that we work properly, that we do what is right after all, and that we have to deal with these matters, which are coming to the National Assembly as a requirement to correct the decision to do as it is established in the body responsible for this. I propose once again that our amendments be placed on the agenda to be treated in a manner worthy of amendment. It is possible to make an amendment to everything that is accepted by the working bodies. Also on [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I need to find that, not the constitution, not the rules of procedure, the small constitution of the National Assembly, do not give me the opportunity to make a substantive assessment of the correctness of the decision of the mother's working bodies, but I must take these matters to the plenary session of the National Assembly, where you decide to do so. That's the first thing. Second thing. In principle, there would be nothing wrong with a proposal by the amendment not to take a decision on another subject, and it will transform it into a decision, because it is only a different form of vote. Except here, because I am bound by the law on local self-government, which says that the rejection decision of the National Assembly is expressed in the form of a decision and the positive decision of the National Assembly in the form of a decision. That's why I'm saying it again. If the decision is not adopted, the point will be suspended and a decision on the invitation to tender will be drawn up. This is no longer a debate, so I am concluding it and moving on to a real debate, which is the debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision as a whole. The word is Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Hello again! Given that I have conducted this meeting of my mother's working body and given the transitional debate, I would like to explain and read the decision we have decided on. The decision of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development was as follows: The Committee assesses that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality and the establishment of its territory fulfils the conditions for the establishment of the municipality and proposes that part of the municipality Dobrova-Polhov Gradec be designated as a referendum area, which is to be excluded from the municipality of Dobrova-Polhov Gradec in the new municipality of Dobrova with its seat in Dobrova, Breže, Podsmreka, Draževnik, Razor and Stranska vas, Komanija, Gabrije, Hruševo, Selo, Šujica, Osredek. However, I must say that the result of this decision was six members of the committee in favour and eight against. Therefore, it can be concluded that this positive decision was not adopted at the meeting of the parent working body. As a result, a negative decision was transmitted to the Assembly of State for the Plenary. Therefore, personally, I would not question it or doubt it in any way. With regard to this point, and given that a number of different opinions have also been made, perhaps even a few points, I must say that this is also a specific and exceptional case. I would say myself, even as one of the representatives of the local communities, that I do not imagine that if I were to leave the local community, that is to say, from the congregation, the part where the whole seat of the congregation is located. I really don't know how then in this second part, how this matter would continue to work. For this reason, I will also support the decision as it will be made, as the Government has said, that the proposal for these reasons is not drafted in accordance with the Constitution and the law. However, I would like to say that I remember a good year and a half ago when I co-organised the meeting of the mayors of the European Union and most of the mayors of Malta told me when there was a question, how many of you were employed in your municipalities and what your responsibilities, responsibilities, tasks: we are mayors, but we also have a possible secretary and gardener, but for the time being, the regulation of the functioning of local self-government and the law on the establishment of municipalities defines completely different tasks for the municipalities. So also what we talked about today, not only geographical moments, but also the rest. We need to be realistic here, and we need to think carefully about what kind of case this is. However, since I was a co-signatory in the case of the congregation of Mirna, and since it has been spoken several times today, I also expect the municipality of Mirna Valley to become the municipality of Mirna in the coming mandates. I can't say I don't come from a very large congregation myself, but it's not very small. I believe that certain debates, even insulting discussions of some of the connections to the size of municipalities larger, smaller, I do not think they belong to Parliament. Even those who are representatives of the other congregations, as well as those half the smaller ones from which I come from, I do not think it is right to judge larger congregations in the way that some of the debates were today. Let's be right to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u67	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u68	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! First, I must say that what my colleague Renata Brunskole has just said is the greatest distraction I have ever heard in my life. Most unacceptable, at least I am convinced that, as a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, even if the first term is in the National Assembly, I should be aware of its tasks and duties. Firstly, he must respect the law, respect the decisions of the court and respect the Constitution. By what she's just said, she's run over all three of these things. Now I'm going to explain why. When she spoke of the congregation of Mirna, the proposal to establish the congregation is by no means different from all other proposals to establish the congregation, including Dobrova. From the data we have, both the proposal for the municipality of Mirna and the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Dobrova, there are similar grounds for finding that, in accordance with the law on local self-government, the municipality can become a separate municipality. They fulfil those key conditions laid down by the Local Self-Government Act. However, the key problem was not on this local self-government committee, but on a committee earlier in the municipality of Mirna, because the proposal was tabled by the coalition, a positive consensus was reached, while the other municipalities, which were not put forward by the coalition MPs, did not receive this support. This time, it has been shown that there has been a complete violation of both the law and the Constitution. Then these congregations complained to the Administrative Court. The decisions or judgments of the Constitutional Court have shown that the Committee on Local Self-Government has played the wrong game. What does that mean? He didn't make the decision he was supposed to make, he made the arbitral decision. And what does that mean? It means for some candidates for the new municipalities that they fulfil the conditions and for other candidates for the municipalities, they also meet the conditions. And the ruling of the Administrative Court has just drawn attention to the fact that the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has not acted in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law and all the provisions which form the basis for the referendum to be signed on whether it fulfils the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality. I really don't understand, and it really seems to me that this coalition, which constantly claims that it wants to respect the Constitutional Court's decisions and that all the injustices that have been committed in the case of deleted persons in the case of salaries for judges and so on, must be respected by the judiciary and all the decisions that this branch of authority imposes on us. Here, where there are three judgments of the Administrative Court, this coalition suddenly chooses another path. It's an incredible hoax. And respected colleagues and fellow Members of the parliamentary groups who voted on the First Committee that certain municipalities, i.e. certain proposals for the establishment of municipalities, met the conditions and others did not, have now voted differently on the Second Committee on Local Self-Government because the Administrative Court imposed on you and clearly stated in the judgment on behalf of the people that the conduct of the Committee on Local Self-Government was contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government. And once again, at the second meeting of this committee, the position of the coalition prevailed that the judgement of the Administrative Court was in error. And suddenly, the coalition is the one that is standing over the judgement of the Administrative Court and has assumed responsibility for the functioning of the State, including the judiciary, without any argument, because we had nothing on this committee other than the ruling of the Administrative Court. Not even the Government has written down in one word that what the Administrative Court’s judgment required - and the Administrative Court’s judgment has required that if the Government finds exceptional quality arguments for this decision adopted by the Local Self-Government Committee, then a different decision may be reached at the plenary session or the local self-government committee itself. However, there was nothing other than the judgment of the Administrative Court at this meeting. The Authority or Coalition has overlooked this and has simply decided, as it has decided, to the detriment of the Constitution, to the detriment of the Law on Local Self-Government and to the detriment of all those citizens, citizens and citizens who wish to reach their Dobrova municipality. I think that this was not just one of the rude acts, but also perverse acts, because you cannot afford that a member of the National Assembly may vote against what the Administrative Court has established. I just don't get it. The Constitutional Court, too, I am sure that citizens and citizens from these municipalities - of course, now this whole case will be repeated first in the Administrative Court, and then certainly citizens and citizens, because they have been denied the right to decide whether they want to live in this or that municipality, this case will probably also go to the Constitutional Court. And I am already convinced that the decision of the Constitutional Court will confirm the judgement of the Administrative Court. Then I wonder which part of the coalition was involved, whether the coalition acted appropriately when it rejected what the Administrative Court had decided. I don't understand this and I can't explain that the very branch of government that writes laws in this country may have made such an irresponsible and unreasonable decision as it has decided on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. And one more thing. Today, we do not decide whether these congregations will be established or not. It is only a procedure, a procedure and a procedure that we are obliged to ensure to those people who wish to come to their municipality to hold a referendum and all that the Law on Local Self-Government provides for them, Articles 13 and 13a. And that's the least we have to do. If we want to respect legislation in this country, if we want to respect what we have voted for in the past, and this is the Law on Local Self-Government. And the majority of you sitting here today, sitting in this House, voted in favour of this law. Now, at the last session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, this law was knowingly violated; and this is what is unacceptable; and this is what bothers me tremendously, and this is what I know is that the huge transfer of the coalition and this is happening all the time, day after day, in all areas. I'm just wondering how much longer Slovenians and Slovenians are going to be this way, this kind of distraction, of course, with the support of not saying who, that's what they're going to take. I believe a moment of sobriety will come. You know, there are words, there are actions, and I must say that the words of this coalition, this government, are over the heads of every citizen and citizen probably in this country. Above all, those who cannot survive living on the brink of poverty who are slowly begging each day for the Red Cross to survive. And we act here like we're someone who's standing over the law and we don't have that right. Therefore, I am extremely, extremely sad that we have not understood that the Administrative Court has clearly and unequivocally decided that what the Commission or the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has adopted is wrong, that this must be returned to this committee and that this committee must correct the error. He didn't do it. He did so again at yesterday's meeting, and that is why we have the conclusions we have at today's meeting of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have supported all these decisions in accordance with the decisions of the Administrative Court and we are convinced that, like those people who live in Dobrova, they have the right to a referendum also in the Framework and so on. I think that we must ensure this because we are bound by the law, the judgement of the Administrative Court, and ultimately the Constitutional Court will oblige us to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u69	Mrs. Brunskol, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for authorizing the replica. Of course, it is true that we are different people and that each of us can have a different explanation of the different debates between us, Members and Members. But that is why I also believe that my colleague was in front of me just thinking that it was a matter of deceiving me personally. I can certainly repeat that this is not the case. I don't think any of the lawyers would explain things the way I had the chance to hear it. It is true, however, that the explanation must also be given correctly. In particular, this coalition of Social Democrats, LDS, DeSUS and Zares respects the ruling of the Administrative Court, the entire National Assembly, that is to say all Members here, because today we will re-decision and now we are discussing this. However, the Governing Court's decision does not tell us how to vote. Because of this, I believe now that someone can quickly be sad about this matter, someone is sad about another matter, and I can also be sad about the insults, the personal insults of me. That's possible, too. But I noticed the first time it was said, and it was shown that way, it means the second time, not the first time. So thank you. But I don't think it's right to say "scrupulous, perverse act." Perversely, I don't know if that's what it was, and I don't think any of this is the way to judge a coalition, because I think it's better for each of us to take the broom and sweep it off the threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u71	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, today's debate and the Members, which we are discussing at this point and the next two items of the agenda, are prisoners of dismissal in implementing the reform of local self-government in the past years, and we are now under pressure, the one we imposed 15 years ago. In three waves this establishment of municipalities has taken place and now we are in this third - I hope that in the last wave and that we will no longer politically so continue to "croak". However, I would take as a starting point the two arguments put forward by the proponents of the establishment of new municipalities, which are in fact contradictory in themselves. The first argument was made today by the opposition twice that the umbrella of the current major municipalities does not allow the development of some smaller ones in the interior and that, therefore, in these municipalities, they decide to withdraw from these major associations; and, on the other hand, that the solution to this establishment is to establish the provinces. Please. We will get 3, 5, 8, 12 even larger congregations, and they will find themselves in these many larger congregations, where they will also have to exercise their interests in some way. So those who use this discourse and this argument, I think you're wrong and this argument is attracted to hair. And secondly, I would like to point out that the Administrative Court was mentioned 23 times earlier in the previous discussion and another one earlier. Now I'm telling you, you have the same vats. If you point out that the National Assembly and the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government have failed to comply with the ruling of the Administrative Court, then the biggest opposition SDS party should review its websites and read all the statements you have made in recent days on the statement and ruling of the Administrative Court regarding the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency. If you have the same valet, then you will see that you have to bite into your tongue and, of course, some views, reviews and opinions change - about what you said today. For it is a matter of judgment and attitude toward the same court. However, I think it is time for us to end this phase of reform of local self-government from this territorial and functional point of view, in particular the functional aspect, in order to complete it, because obviously we have already come to a stage where the self-restraint of these smaller municipalities, in my humble opinion, is damaging to the development of some areas in Slovenia, but not beneficial. And those who speak of the establishment of the provinces must say that the ever-increasing number of municipalities makes it increasingly difficult and will make it difficult to establish the provinces or landscapes of Slovenia. Remember last spring, when municipalities responded to the then variant of 14 provinces in Slovenia, how the holy municipalities reacted, how the mayors reacted and so on. If we take their views and positions into account, we will never reach these areas. And the more we crush, the harder we'll get to these regions. Because you've all been talking about Articles 13 and 13. My opinion is that, when I said earlier that we had "politically quacked" in the past 15 years with regard to the reform of local government, I must say that the first precedent was made when we established something in 80 municipalities, and since then we have started, I will use this word to violate the provisions of Articles 13 and 13a on local self-government. At that time it was the beginning, and today all those arguments can have -- they happen to those who have new initiatives to set up municipalities to be wronged. Of course, because the first injustice was committed in the second year of 1994, not yet, but 1996, 1998 and definitely 1997, when the elections were held in 1998. At that time, the first injustices were committed, and it is repeated. And to read to you article 13a when you're all talking about him. Two parts of this article, and in the first part of the first paragraph: "At the time of its establishment, the municipality may have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants when it comes to the establishment of a new municipality with the merger of two or more smaller municipalities." And the second paragraph: "For geographical, border national, historical and economic reasons, an assembly of less than 5,000 inhabitants, or 2,000, may be established exceptionally." And now I'm going to tell you, here, not only in these years, but also in the past - what were those basic arguments, the elements of this 13a article that argued the establishment of these new communities? And to the end. By crushing Slovenia, we are blocking the development of individual regions of Slovenia. Because infrastructure, roads, sewerage is one part of mini development, another development, which means that 27 municipalities in Pomour need to agree on what will happen in the next 10, 20 years, what their vision of development is, but it is already harder to agree. I think that Pomurje is not the only part of Slovenia where these small municipalities find it difficult to agree on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u73	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, in one piece, he's going to attach his warnings to the opposition. Perhaps one of us could sneak up on the face of a redhead, for the standards were not the same when the mother’s working body decided to call for referendums in certain areas for the establishment of new congregations. In this part, the opposition Members who point out this are certainly right. Unfortunately, this has also happened this time, and there is no exception. In all these years of establishing new congregations, this has unfortunately happened. I am a strong advocate for the non-breaking of local self-government to a larger number of municipalities, because I also understand that by crushing Slovenia to too many municipalities we are causing additional centralisation of the country, because we are also simply preventing the transfer of individual more difficult tasks to municipalities because the municipalities are very different, both by size and by number of the population. That's the problem. When we talk about respecting the procedure and deciding, at a certain point, whether a referendum is signed or not, whether conditions are met or not, let us take a decision to call a referendum and ask people what they think about whether they want to set up a new congregation. Of course, there's a considerable amount of misdirection here. Because when we do, it's hard to step back. How difficult it is for someone who decided to set up a new congregation at the referendum to not actually define this congregation in law. So one step at a time leads us to the ultimate goal. It is very difficult to allow three steps, but at the fourth step, we did not take these three seriously. As I said, I am opposed to the additional fragmentation of Slovenia into new municipalities. In fact, I do not agree with what my colleague Kumer has said well, but let me repeat. We have made mistakes in the past, but this is no excuse for repeating these mistakes indefinitely. We have made a mistake, admit a mistake, and act in such a way that we do not repeat these mistakes in the future. This is probably the right way, so it is also right that we today decide not to establish new congregations. And there's something else I'd like to say. That's what's been heard. Failure to comply with the decision of the Administrative Court would have been a failure to rule on it again. We will decide again and will be guided by the assessment of whether or not the criteria for setting up a municipality are met and thus the conditions for the call for a referendum are laid down. We will decide on this and bear all the responsibility for it. It is also important to stress that the law makes it very clear that when we establish a new congregation and we exclude it from the work of the congregation so far, not only does this new congregation meet the conditions for its establishment but that the remaining part that remains by excluding this work, which establishes a new congregation, also meets the conditions for the existence of this congregation. And that's what they're pointing out in this case. As regards the proposal of the new Dobrova municipality, the Administrative Court finds that it cannot test whether the decision of the National Assembly is lawful because the contested act does not have an adequate explanation. In the first part, it is said that, at least as the proponents say, the conditions for the establishment of a new congregation have been met, and in the second part it is not stated whether the conditions for a part of the congregation are met, which remains part of the old congregation. So if I finish, I will vote as always, even in cases where we have declared the result earlier, I voted against it because I am guided by the basic principle that it is not necessary to repeat the error, but to make the decision as required by the law. And the exception is when it's really an exception when it becomes a rule, it's no longer an exception. Now we have more exceptions than he said. And we want to continue with that. I will vote in order to prevent the further fragmentation of Slovenia into new municipalities, but I will also warn the Minister of Local Self-Government myself, and probably the expression that I warn him is not appropriate, this time I will use the expression that I will ask him for the last time, because the next time I will warn him that it is necessary to amend the Law on Community Financing and to make it the one that the local community will call or call for cooperation, to connect, to larger territorial units, to larger territorial units, to more territorial units, but not to the one that we have today, which calls for further fragmentation of local communities and actually means that those who do not want to establish a municipality are essentially wrong because they have more resources than they receive in this case within the local community in which they live. Unfortunately, then both local communities get more money than this local community gets now in the current range and by the number of inhabitants. Well, the law has to be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u75	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I must say, in the previous performance, there were some confessions of misconduct. It was recognized that the coalition had gone to double standards. The problem is that double standards are always the result of double morality, and this has been in history and is still very problematic today. Even when we are talking about establishing new congregations, we cannot. It has been said by one previous debater that the coalition MPs here are prisoners, think, prisoners of laws and constitution! Then we cannot be surprised that they have acted in the past so that in three cases the Administrative Court has found that there has been a flagrant illegal conduct in Parliament by the majority. That you have been in flagrant violation of two constitutional principles: equality, in accordance with Article 14, and the rule of law. We always warn that the rule of law does not mean anything to this coalition. And when we warn you about that, you say, like the President of the Government, "So what," what if we don't respect the Constitution? Why there are now double standards in this matter, double conduct. The last speaker also admitted, and Mr Kampuš also said on the committee: "It is clear to everyone that the part of a congregation that wants to become independent at this moment also comes financially better through than if it were within a common congregation, as well as the rest." This is a fact and this is what the Law on Local Self-Government has foreseen. Since we have all along inappropriate laws on equitable, coherent development, through this law this is the only fight against centralisation and for more equitable development. Of course, the municipalities in Slovenia were able to use and invest this money properly. And if, as the Government first found, all these congregations meet the criteria, the conditions, it is unacceptable to follow double criteria. Why is the coalition acting even more radically now? This money, which is for municipalities all over Slovenia, in another law with direct budgeting, was used by Mr Jankovic as a means of intrusion into the budget. That is why all the mayors in the province who are going to cut off their money are voting in favour of their citizens, because that is how the general boss, Mr Jankovic, decided that money must go into that bag. Ladies and gentlemen, this is crystal clear. Who decides here on the basis of what you violate the Constitution and the laws and on what basis you say, "Even if we break - they are what!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u77	Mr. Lucky Friend, you have the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Mag. Saivitz. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Kampush. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u78	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister Gjerkesh with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I, too, must admit that I am not inclined to crush the congregations further. True, today I could say that we have good and bad congregations, but I will not allow myself to say what someone would like me to say for a language to say that we have good only smaller or good only bigger ones. No! No! The whole mixture is here, and I couldn't define myself exactly. It is true, however, that the law on local self-government is bad and at this point encourages the establishment of new municipalities. In short, I know that this is already in preparation, it has to modernise and comply with the corrections that will bring the idea of bringing together municipalities, which is of course of interest. Then I'll give you a few practical experiences that will, of course, prove it. At this point, we have a case of light, an inspection service co-financed by the state in 50%, and look what happened. In all municipalities they have approached this and, of course, this is the formula by which I think we should proceed. Of course, we also have a fine example of development agencies that in some ways care for a larger number of congregations together. They're successful there, too. They're successful there! We also have some good or bright examples when they have joint projects, but there is also a lot of talk about these cases, how it is in France, how Italy is, how it is in Austria and so on. I'm a neighbor of the Austrians, and I'll tell you for a minute how it is. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Half a minute. [[...]] Then I'll just say the little cases. In Pomour, the worst part is that we have a large number of congregations. There's 27 of us. It is very difficult to reach a common denominator with these 27 mayors to go together. Look what happened. We have a regional library. The actions were brought because some did not understand, and they did not have the financial resources to finance them. These are the kind of anomalies that have to be eliminated in some way. Yeah, 'cause I'm running out of time, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u79	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I have two things to say in the introduction, or more. Above all, it has been said in this assembly today that we are in fact supporting only those congregations that have been tabled by the coalition Members. I'm a coalition member, but my congregation didn't go through this procedure. Maybe because it's called Dobrovo, it's not called Ankaran, and of course it's not Mirna. It is true, however, that I have before me the judgment of the Constitutional Court in which it actually stated: "The action shall be heard and the decision of the General Assembly of 25 shall be challenged. 9. 2009 in the conclusion that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality by removing part of the area from the Dobrova-Polhov Gradec municipality does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality of Dobrova and in this part it is returned to the applicant for re-decision." Of course, the explanation below describes everything that was right and wrong. Finally, they wrote: 'The defendant must issue a new administrative act within 30 days of receipt of the judgment, before which he is bound by the legal position of the court as regards the conduct of the proceedings' - and so on. Of course, if we are considering a legal act today to re-dispute the issue that this area does not meet the conditions, I will, in some way, be satisfied with this in explanation. In any case, colleagues and colleagues, my next step will be to take. After adopting the same decision, which was issued a month ago and a half ago, I will take the same step. That means I'm going to the Administrative Court again. The Administrative Court will decide, and again, of course, we will have this discussion in the National Assembly. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that those who voted in favour of the decision on Ankaran, Mirna, and perhaps even sooner on another congregation, today press the button to ensure that this area meets the conditions and, in fact, avoid any further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u81	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Once, a while ago, I was talking about what new congregations meant for those small places, isolated ones who were part of large congregations, who spent money primarily in their centers and were not too interested in small towns and villages. At that time, I also said that in my congregation from which I come, in the congregation of Ig, we did not choose our congregation when we were asked that question, yet we received it because of the decision made by the National Assembly. And if we did such a survey in our congregation today, I am sure that this time everyone would choose the Ig Congregation again. In fact, since its establishment in 1995, it has done as much as it has not done in a few decades, and apparently with much less money. Because when deciding where money is to go, more rational decisions are usually made. Because there is a big difference, whether the mayor is sitting somewhere in Ljubljana, no one is practically able to sit with him, or sitting in the Igu congregation, and every day people meet him at the store and everywhere and ask him about what is wrong with them, what they would suggest and what they would like. And so it happened in Slovenia in all or in most of the municipalities that you mention - we have 210 municipalities and why we need them so much. Our parliamentary group, as well as the former government, walk in the field, go to see this congregation and find great progress, and the congregations themselves say that they have done enormously with the means they have. Because they are more rationally used than in our case the former Ljubljana-Vič-Rudnik municipality. And, of course, we have everything in Ljubljana, and today we are doing a sewer in Ljubljana that they had a long time ago and many other things. But as it is said, the center is not interested in one house with 1,500 people, but there is another small village, which until the congregation was established, for example, one of us had no water. That is why I will always support those proposals for congregations that meet the basic conditions that we have put into marriage, and my colleague on the contrary said that we have made mistakes, and now we will no longer make mistakes. It's very unfair to people. We have made mistakes and allowed the congregation to some citizens and citizens, but now we will not make any more mistakes and we will not allow other citizens and citizens to do so. It's pretty easy to think and operate like this, and from now on, we're not going to make a mistake. I think that all those who want their own congregation who even choose to do so at the referendum are obliged to make this possible and to explain that the municipalities are going to go bankrupt - I am more concerned that the country will go bankrupt under such leadership, but we are now on a different subject. The fact that this government or this government coalition does not trust people to know what they need and what they want is, I don't know, deception or what to say, in a country where we say that authority has people, but God forbid they ask them whether they want their congregation or don't want it. So I will support all those suggestions that are positive in all those municipalities that actually meet the legal requirements with the number of people and other requirements and I think that's the right way. However, some of you are thinking about uniting congregations; we have brought the process of establishing the provinces very far in the previous term. I agree that some of the projects or some of the things that involve much of them are, say, our smaller congregations and we need to agree on certain things to be prepared together. Even for a lot of European money, it is not possible to run with small municipalities, but the municipalities have to join in certain projects, but because you have also rejected them, so you obviously don't mean much here either. But in the previous term, we have come a long way from the landscape project, and I think it's the right solution. We will still need small congregations to solve small problems and small things that are in a certain environment, with 5,000, 6,000, 3,000 inhabitants, while we will need to establish provinces to regulate things that include a little larger area and that also require more people to do things. I am also a member of the Committee on Internal Policy, we are talking about judges and how they decide at the first stage, then it goes to the second stage, and the second stage concludes that something has been wrong, the case returns to the first stage, and this must be decided again. That is exactly what the Administrative Court ordered us to decide again on the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality by removing part of the area from the Dobrova - Polhov Gradec municipality. And you don't want to discuss it or you don't want to know that when you made a mistake, you got your exam. So now you can do something different and do the right thing. But you don't want to do this, so I have to say that I don't understand you and agree with what our group leader said, that it should be just a different decision and give people little trust that they know what they want and what they need.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u83	Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think this second point of ours is quite extensive and there was little to hear about the specific congregation Dobrova - Polhov Gradec or the initiative of the work of the congregation after expulsion. There were many dilemmas in this direction, such as the smaller congregations, how successful they are and, as my colleague has already said, the SDS Group is visiting the field. We were at the beginning of the month in Haloza. In elementary school, we were taught that Haloze had been left behind, that there was poverty, and at the beginning of the month I convinced myself that this was not the case. Haloses, divided into small congregations, are, in their own words, extremely successful. With the same energy is being built, they are successful in European projects, as are these small municipalities, as elsewhere in Slovenia, which are visited by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If I return specifically to the Dobrova - Polhov Gradec municipality, somehow disturb me or direct me to the letter of the National Community of Black Vrh and Polhov Gradec that the whole congregation has developed more so far at the work of Dobrava, and now this part wants to secede. On the one hand, you understand, and on the other hand, you don't. After all, let us give our citizens the opportunity to decide, and let us be aware that we are not deciding on the formation of the congregations today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko. [[He's not here.]] Does the representative of the government want a word? As no amendments have been tabled to the draft decision or have not been properly tabled, as previously explained, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Decision will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 4th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the City of Fram and for the determination of its area does not fulfil the conditions for the establishment of the Community. The draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the decision, Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs Renati Brunskole, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development shall, at its 5th session, on 1 December as a parent working body, on the basis of the judgment of the Administrative Court of 5 December. 11. He re-examined the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Fram of the candidate Mr Jožef Jerovska. The Committee was informed of all the documents contained in the current procedure for setting up this municipality, namely the opinion of the Municipal Council, the opinion and the proposal of the Government, and the judgment of the Administrative Court. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in its opinion on the proposals for the establishment of municipalities of 2. Seven. 2009 assessed that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Fram met the conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. Upon re-examination of the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Fram at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development on 1 December, the Government explained that the opinion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development was adopted on 1 December 2. Seven. 2009 commits and in principle does not support the further process of setting up municipalities which it considers unable to carry out legal tasks. In assessing the legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality of Fram, the Committee was based on the Administrative Court’s judgment stating that the Committee and the National Assembly did not take into account the Government’s finding that the proposal met the legal conditions and did not give the contrary arguments or that the contrary argument did not stem from the submissions. In the debate of the Committee, the arguments resulting from the Administrative Court’s judgment were expressed by the proposer and certain members of the Committee who considered that the proposed area for the establishment of the municipality of Fram met the conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, as the Government also found in its opinion of 2. Seven. 2009 Most of the members of the committee supported the Government's principled position that it is against further fragmentation of municipalities, since local self-government denotes in particular the right and the ability of local authorities to regulate and carry out essential parts of public affairs within their tasks and for the benefit of their population. This provision is also based on Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which lays down the conditions for the establishment of municipalities. The proposed new municipality would have 3,185 inhabitants, which, according to the Government, in terms of the principle of administrative and organisational rationality, would mean that the emergence of an even greater number of developing new municipalities would result in a weakening of the economic and financial power of existing municipalities. The Committee also draws on the position of the Constitutional Court on the interpretation of the legal criteria, taking into account equality with the historical comparative position, that is, taking into account the same criteria as in previous decisions of the National Assembly on a similar factual and legal basis and taking into account similar decisions when considering proposals at the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. The fact is that the financial and economic crisis in the current period has a particular impact on the operations of municipalities that are reducing their revenues. According to the Government's assessment, the situation will deteriorate further as the expenditure of municipalities increases due to the high impact of the economic crisis on the social situation in individual areas of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee voted on a positive decision, i.e. on the conclusion that the area for the establishment of the new municipality of Fram fulfils the conditions for the new municipality and has not accepted it. On the basis of the decision taken by the Committee, a decision was drawn up for the meeting of the National Assembly to conclude that the proposal does not meet the legal conditions for the establishment of a municipality. The decision taken by the Committee means that, under the changed economic and economic circumstances, the Committee, as a proposal for a decision to the legislator, was based on a decision of the Constitutional Court of 1988 and its position that the legislator may, in establishing a network of municipalities, be able to assess the conditions to be met in order to ensure that the municipality established in that area is able to meet the common needs and interests of the population and the tasks in accordance with the law. The Committee also adopted a decision inviting the Government to draw up an additional opinion on the basis of the decisions of the Administrative Court for these three municipalities by today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of the reasons set out in the proposal and the reasons for the opinion, the Committee assessed that the proposal for the establishment of a municipality did not meet the conditions for setting up a municipality and invited the National Assembly to take the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary. As in the previous paragraph, this time, too, the Group of Members on the decision to conclude that the proposal to initiate the establishment of the municipality of Fram and the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality, and that the DeSUS Group now fully agrees with this proposed decision, also agrees with the opinion of the parent committee. It is exactly the same because the proposed elimination of the area would affect the constitutional components of the municipality of Rače-Fram, i.e. the areas and name of the municipality to the extent that the remaining part of the municipality no longer fulfils the conditions for the municipality. There have been many debates today, and these debates are likely to continue, but let me say, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that we did not expect these discussions to go to the rave of reckonings between large and small municipalities, nor did we expect any presentation here of what development is like in small congregations or first in larger congregations, but together with legal content we are looking at this view, absolutely, once again, that the process should be considered and that this process of dividing into small congregations stopped. We can stop it with good preparation of the law on local self-government, we can also stop it in other ways and then immediately put these issues aside, which are very problematic and sometimes emotionally conditioned by debaters and debates. If I say it again. The DeSUS Group has in its programme a party to act against the fragmentation of smaller units, i.e. the smaller municipalities. This has also been conditioned by the view that small congregations are not so capable of carrying out all their outstanding tasks, for which they are bound by the law on local self - government, only when certain delegated tasks are involved. And this is particularly the problem of drawing on European funds, for which small municipalities are certainly not as qualified as large, and this is what I have been talking about at the previous point, to see the phenomena of the merger of some small municipalities into larger municipalities, into larger institutions, in the establishment of the inter-agency bodies that carry out these works for them, and this should lead us to the fact that fragmentation into small municipalities is absolutely unnecessary and from this point of view is also incorrect. It has also been mentioned many times that by reducing the revenue of the municipalities, these small municipalities will not be able to carry out all these tasks related to social transfers and social security, especially in 2011, when these inflows to smaller municipalities are even more well known. Finally, I should like to point out once again that the decision to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Fram and the establishment of its territory does not meet the condition and is also a decision to be supported by the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kampush has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u90	Dear Vice-President, Minister Gjerkesh, with his co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats oppose the fragmentation of municipalities into smaller ones than they have been before, and, as we have already said today, we will not support proposals for the establishment of new municipalities. The Municipality of Rače - Fram with its good 6,500 inhabitants is no longer part of the great congregation. However, the criteria set out in the Law on Local Self - Administration are among those of the congregations that meet the legal requirements. We would now like to exclude a section of the municipality that has 3,195 inhabitants. The remaining work remains 3,333 and would receive two smaller, perhaps weaker congregations. The Group of the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal to initiate proceedings for the establishment of the congregation of Fram and for the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality. I would also like to point out that the current law on local self-government and the former law on the financing of municipalities promote the establishment of new municipalities. For this reason, it is clear that the law needs to be modernised, harmonised and corrected and that it should aim to bring together municipalities in areas of an interconnecting type, a common character and bring about the rapid development of rounded-off areas in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are now again deciding on the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Fram and the removal of this area from the municipality of Rače - Fram, but in fact we are deciding whether the government coalition is prepared to respect legislation and the Constitution or is ready to recognise constitutional rights for all citizens in this country. The administrative court of the Republic of Slovenia, department of Maribor, is 28. 10. decide to repeal the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish that an area does not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of its territory. In this case, it is a decision relating to the proposal to initiate proceedings for the establishment of the congregation of Fram. In this regard, we are pleased in the SDS Group that the Court has clearly established that the National Assembly or the Coalition majority, by adopting such an article, violated the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and has also violated the constitutional principle of unity, equality, that is, Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which requires equal treatment and prevents the arbitrary and different decision-making of the authorities in the same and substantially similar factual circumstances. The Court thus found, in particular, that the National Assembly did not comply with the same criteria in that decision as in previous decisions on a similar, factual and legal basis. In the case of the municipality of Fram, the National Assembly decided otherwise than at the same meeting in a legally identical proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Mirna, proposed by the Coalition Member. The Court found that the decision of the National Assembly was arbitrary, since the State authorities which are in the process of setting up municipalities in accordance with Articles 14 and 14a of the Law on Local Self-Government are entitled to give opinions and proposals on the fulfilment of the legal conditions by [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] the position. [[...]] We note that government parties are well aware of illegal behaviour and do not hide awareness and opposition to the better development potential of these areas set up by these municipalities, while at the same time improving the development potential of the rest of these municipalities. There is now a thorn in the fifth of this current law on local self-government, which gives legal opportunities to these areas. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we expect that the attitude towards respect for the Constitution and laws today by government Members will be different from that of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which is why in the Group of Members we expect to adopt a decision on the call for a referendum at the end. However, I must point out that the Government, which did not have an opinion on the Committee, has now drawn up an opinion in which it amends its opinion on the previous reading in the National Assembly and stresses that the rest of this congregation would not meet the conditions for the congregation. Of course it doesn't. That's an attractive argument for hair. The ducks are a rounded unit, they meet all the criteria - the inhabitants and all that - and I am sure that both of the future municipalities would have better chance of fighting and would work better. Finally, this proposal did not come through a Member, through me, but the local community has asked me to make this proposal, and I think that officials in the local community, people know the functioning of the present congregation and also know what they can expect from the surrounding cases. So I do not agree with the Government's negative position on the proposal that the area does not meet the conditions for setting up a municipality and we will vote against such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft decision as a whole. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! While I will talk about this decision for this congregation, I would first like to say a few general words, which will also apply to the next item, as well as to the preceding one. In this House, we hear many times from ruling parties when we demand that we convene an extraordinary meeting and discuss a certain problem of spending tax money. Of course that's not true. You know that. But what we're doing today, and today's session is because you've complicated the matter and because you didn't have the same criteria. We have this meeting quite needlessly because you had different criteria for different proposals. I do not understand how some of the proposals in the previous meeting could have been rejected and confirmed by one when we were considering proposals for the establishment of new municipalities. And in that package you confirmed, you had a proposal that didn't meet the conditions and proposals that met the conditions. In the second package you rejected, however, there were mostly proposals that met the conditions. And by supporting this proposal, you just called for the applicants to complain to the Administrative Court and we already knew in advance what would happen - that the complaint would succeed. Because this meant an unequal approach, an unequal treatment before the law. Before marriage, all proposals must be the same as those of humans. You had different criteria based on who the applicant was. And this sitting today is a typical example of when the Administrative Court had to say that all the proposals, or all the proponents, or all the people are not equal before the law, because you made that decision. There's something else I'd like to say. This isn't the last session on this subject. Another session will have to be an extraordinary meeting in eight days, because one of these proposals is a proposal for the Municipality of Loče, this is the congregation whose candidate I was, I was not the initiator, but I was the proposer. And the initiating committee has entrusted me with complaining to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court has decided and I can tell you that it has decided for the sake of the complainant, that is to say, to me. So the initiative committee in the back was right, and you proved that you used different criteria. That's what it says. We'll meet again in eight days. I cannot say if this will be the only proposal, because I do not know how many have been complained about, but I do know that the proposal I have made and appealed to the Administrative Court will have to be dealt with in the same content as these three today. And we're gonna have to meet again, or we're gonna have to meet again, and I don't know, but I know, and I'm gonna tell you that's what happens if you don't have the same criteria. We could reject all proposals, even if we had conditions, but it would be a criterion: we no longer approve of divisions to small congregations, as some have said. Our client, not mine, but those who spoke before me, you said, our client does not support the division of congregations, but it is not true if you supported the proposal to set up new congregations. One, yes, the other, not. That's what you're saying. That's duality. Then we should reject everything at the previous sitting or let it all go through, then we would have the same criteria. I agree that the decision in the municipalities is a political decision, so of course we could say that we will reject all proposals for the further division of Slovenia and no one could tell you enough because we would have criteria. Your political position is that small congregations should not develop against it, and you would adhere to that criterion. By that vote, you have proved that this is not the case; that one is in words, and the other is in action. And the consequence of this action is that today we need to meet and discuss three proposals again. However, I told you that within eight days we will have to meet again because of your decision; and this for the proposal for the Municipality of Loče, which is sufficient for the criteria for the formation of the new congregation, has been rejected. And that's why we're gonna have to meet again, which I don't think is responsible. Of course, before marriage, we must all be equal, and the law must be respected, but if something is already fragile, then at least we must have the same criteria. And if we have the same criteria, even if the law is a little tighter or somewhere on the border, we can always say that we had the same criteria, the same meters for everyone. In this case, it is not, and because that is not the case, of course I will support or vote differently than the local self-government committee has foreseen or proposed. For those proposals which have the conditions for the formation of a new congregation, I will vote for those who do not, as proposed by the Committee, as I think it is appropriate for the people who have proposed the creation of a new congregation, if they have the conditions, to support their proposal. Because there are simply no other criteria, the meter that the ruling majority has set at this point is not the same for all, it is shorter for some, it is longer for others, it does not exist for others, it does not exist for others. I am sorry that this has happened, and I am sorry that we will have to meet again for the congregation of Loče. Then I will also speak specifically about that proposal and about that congregation which, according to the current legislation, has the conditions for creation or for the establishment of a new congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u95	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. This debate, of course, opens to me the question of the concept of our common policy. At the heart of this concept, I have before me the challenges we face as a nation, as a community, even as Europe and the world. And the question of whether, today, we are in many ways strategically challenged, and some may even be fateful, organised in a way that our organisation, our agreement on how we operate in this community, guarantees that in the most optimal way, we achieve our objectives in the most rational way. And we're not asking enough questions as a country. In the past 20 years, we have fragmented this Slovenia and consequently increased the burden of public funding for this fragmentation. But that's not the only problem! Fragmentation also weakens development capacity. I agree with those in the opposition who say that small municipalities are a good model of effective development. I know a number of small congregations that are developing very well. The problem is that this is part of the anti-urban policy that we have been cultivating in this country for too long and that puts the development of scattered areas at the expense of large urban centres. This infuriates our common infrastructure, weakens our ability to provide quality public services to people, our citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, and to plan the development of our community in a rational and efficient manner. And when we face extraordinary results, when we know that we need to rapidly increase the competitiveness of our economy, when we know that we have to answer difficult questions about how we will rationalise the public sector in the country, when we talk about people, workers and workers in this country, as we all want, providing greater prosperity and greater security, these are questions that do not allow the continuation of such petty policies. Today we are on the ground because we have been witnessing for too long that we, even as the National Assembly, are focusing largely on topics that do not have the advantage and call of time and that do not deserve as much attention as we do in this political space. So here is the question of how we will organise ourselves in the future to achieve what our common interests are. Let me say that in this particular case, I was urged by the countrymen and the countrymen of the Fram, in their sincere desire to reach their congregation. What she is doing here may be a reasonable indication that part of the present congregation of Rače-Fram is developing faster than others, that all attention is being paid to Račam and very little to Framu. And these are serious issues that we need to think about in this type of demand and ask ourselves how we will integrate into our legislation mechanisms that will ensure not only the harmonious development of Slovenia, but also the coherent development of municipalities. If this congregation were to develop sufficiently in harmony, they would probably not be faced with this legitimate requirement today. In these days we are following a dynamic public debate that followed Saturday's demonstrations and certainly the legitimate demands of Slovenian trade unions, Slovenian workers and workers after the minimum wage has been raised in the country. To achieve this, and I am absolutely in favour of this request, we must ask ourselves how the burden of this country and the burden of the public sector will be reduced in order to leave more room for manoeuvre to the people from their work and their wages. I am not talking about a hollow country, but I am talking about thinking about how we will optimize the delivery of public services so that people will be given the best possible quality and accessibility of public services at the lowest possible price. One of these issues is certainly also related to Slovenian local communities. I am of the opinion that there are too many Slovenian municipalities and that we must respond to the challenge in this mandate, how we will reduce the number of Slovenian municipalities. In the public sector, there are still a number of challenges, how we will rationalise, make the system more transparent, so that we know that public funds go towards the purpose for which they are intended and that they go exactly as far as it takes to achieve the desired effect. Finally, what I expect is that we will also open up the question of once getting a lean but highly motivated public sector and therefore also raise the issue of the number of employees in this public sector. That's what I want. This is not yet in government documents, except for the reduction as defined by the government as the goal, but I think this is what we need to start talking about. At the request of the country women and the countrymen of Fram, I therefore see with understanding how I understand the ambition of all the other communities in this country who want to make their own decisions about how they will live together. However, I think that the time we live in is full of challenges, which must be an advantage, so I will not support the ambitions of the new congregations this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u97	Mr. Lucky Friend has the word - you're giving up. Mr. Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u98	Dear Vice President, thank you. Since I was running out of time earlier, I'm gonna try to move on to where I ended up a few minutes ago. So, a few cases from Pomurje, where we have 27 congregations, I'll pass. Of course it is, as I say, that it is very difficult to get a common denominator in the 27 mayors, especially from this point of view, because some have other interests, as I will now state the case. Some have an interest in building a football stadium with a tribune, and then it happens, as in our case, that they do not have a co-financing share for the water of Pomurje, which is of strategic importance and that is why we take care of it ourselves. We also have cases when I said before, we have a regional library, which we have built together, and we need to recover the co-financing share by way of a lawsuit in some municipalities. We got it on the table today. Look at it. It's a post-revision report. The post-revision report, from which "de facto" shows that small municipalities are also trying to want as much development as possible, but it is not going well. But it is not possible because there are 1,000 citizens, 2000, some are also 700, and they cannot possibly follow the pace of development that they should have if they wanted to represent the position that the congregation must ensure technological development, the drawing of funds. Are some even aware that in drawing funds within our area of cross-border cooperation, European funds and so on, some municipalities have come so far as to discuss as little co-financing as possible. This means that they are going to start projects where only 15% of the funds are to be provided by the municipality. Some congregations and some development agencies have come so far! Of course, others cannot because they are not skilled, do not have professional services, and so on. We are not talking about the fact that it is not possible for smaller municipalities, of course, to provide funding for a fire extinguisher, for a library, a museum, and I do not know what else. If I briefly summed up what I said, it is clear that the current number of municipalities are the consequences of non-compliance with the Law on Local Self-Government, which of course prescribed the conditions, but of course the municipalities were established without these criteria. I have already stated that because it is easier to understand because many times colleagues compare different countries, how it is arranged elsewhere, such as in France, Italy, Austria and so on. I am a neighbour of the Austrians, and I can tell you clearly and loudly that the congregations there care solely for these three, four, five areas, namely, societies, sports, social gatherings, funeral speeches and our local communities. There are, of course, areas, districts that care for municipal waste, road infrastructure, full development policy with calls for proposals, cross-border cooperation, economic, tourist, agricultural area, education, culture, education, pre-school education and so on. So this is completely different from ours. Of course, to mix these things up, then we come to this - and again I hope to say - that the mayors are probably investing in smaller municipalities as well as in some other great effort, but, of course, given the limited resources - this is not possible. Today, I would also respond at the end of my debate to the fact that there have been a lot of criticism at the expense of non-establishment or the ability not to establish the provinces. So I have to say, of course, a respected former coalition, you didn't create them, because if you set them up, of course you would have them. What else am I trying to say? It's a simplified form of expression, but it's real. Thank you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u99	Please, I haven't said a word yet. Mr. Willie Rezman. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Marian Pojbich. [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The fact is, since 1990, since the election of the then assembly, we have embarked on reforms of local self-government in Slovenia. The fact is, since then, we have made and made many mistakes. We started out in nostalgia, and at times things got better when we had a large number of congregations, so to speak, in each parish of our congregation, and it turned out that we were not part of that assignment. On the one hand, we have committed ourselves to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and we have ratified it, but we have violated it all the time. And let me be honest that in all coalitions from 1990 onwards, mistakes have been made in this area, that the law has been broken, and that many or most of the time politics has promoted it. Now I think that we have learned many things in all these years and that we can finally find only one thing: that the Law on Local Self-Government needs to be amended, improved, complemented, and especially the Law on the Financing of Communities. Because there are a lot of levers in this law, why we went through this 20-year history into the process of fragmentation of Slovenia with an increasing number of municipalities. Today, it was heard that no congregation had so far bankrupted, especially the small one. Of course, it is not, as we know, a fundamental principle which, according to our own constitution and the law, is that municipalities are financed from their own resources - this is a fundamental principle - and immediately in the second paragraph, both in the Constitution and in the Law on Local Self-Government, it is stipulated that if these municipalities are unable to do so because of economic circumstances, the State must provide for the provision and implementation of local self-government. What was originally defined as an exception, of course, became a rule. That's what my colleague Bojan Kontic has been talking about. I see no other than that it is now an ideal situation when we have in preparation a law on the provinces or the provincialisation of Slovenia, that we must prepare and reflect on changes to both the law on local self-government and, in particular, the law on the financing of municipalities. I recall that about six years ago, within the framework of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, which operates within the Council of Europe, a special study of how the right to local self-government is being realized in Slovenia. And at that time, the report made it clear that it is typical for Slovenia to have too many small congregations that are incapable of funding from their own resources. And the recommendations at the end of this report made it clear that Slovenia should ensure that incentives are provided so that inefficient small municipalities try to unite. However, these incentives are most effective when they are of a financial nature. I think we're at the point where we should think about these financial incentives. True, as a fellow Jeriah once said, who welcomes the fact that we have small congregations, she spoke of Ig and the scepters around him that people already know what they need. Of course, people know what they need, but on the other hand, we need to know how to finance it. It is therefore necessary to find appropriate models to enable municipalities to be able to finance themselves and to be financially self-sufficient. There is no doubt, however, that when we are talking about local self-government, we are also talking about a special basket of human rights. Therefore, it is also so difficult to handle these issues. The last time I voted for the referendum in Ankara was because I thought it was right for people to have the opportunity to say whether they wanted their own congregation or not. It should be known, however, that this is only one information, only one relevant information, which, only then under other conditions required by the Local Government Act, constitutes the basis and possibility for the establishment of its own municipality. As it is said, I think that we have come to some knowledge in this practice for 20 years now and that there is no doubt a moment when comprehensive changes to the legislation we are talking about today must be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. In opening, let me say that I have voted against the division of municipalities by now, because I think that is the case. Today's reasons - specifically for the congregation of Fram, why should it become a new congregation, are this: I think it would be better, the flat part should be separated from the hilly and so on. That's not an argument! That's what we joke about, and we throw away such flossules, because life is completely different. As has already been said, the law on local self-government is obsolete and urgently needs to be corrected. We have 110 municipalities that do not meet the conditions. I wonder whether this means that we are going on now and not stopping this train from establishing new congregations, or whether once we have to say so, we are now going to stop small congregations that barely meet the conditions and share even smaller ones. It pains me that we have started to talk here: but small municipalities work, and one of them works, one of them works, the mayor goes to the theatre with a tie in town and they don't go to the village. I mean, this is a primitive debate that doesn't belong here. I hope that all the mayors, including the smallest municipalities, go to the theatre and go to sports events and other places. The problem is that Members oppose the legislation that we have adopted or have adopted and the idea of getting more from the small congregations has certainly been the rule so far. We know where the reasons are, but in the time that is now coming and is here, I don't think that's going to be possible anymore. I wonder if this is the way to think if there were no congregation, there would be no asphalt. Is that real thinking? I think that we have taken a big, big step in development since independence, in decorating the countryside and cities, but this process has gone on, this money has gone into this, and whether or not the congregation would be a congregation, this development would go somehow in that sense. And how is it possible to force the congregations to unite? You can see it in Italy specifically where they have an incredible number of congregations. Only through financial measures is it said that by law on local self-government, municipalities can be forced to merge to reduce the cost, for see to 2 million people we hang all the municipal new buildings because where the municipality is formed, there is a need to arrange the building. This is not the worst, for this building remains and is in the environment. Wages must be provided, awards must be provided to saints and saints, costs to external staff. Now I'm going to ask, say, if we split New Gorica, we're making an O.N. Whether we do it at the same cost or a new congregation, for example, has to get its money for the O.N. from someone. It's also -- it's said, these outside associates and so on. I'd like to mention this. Whether these small municipalities are thinking - and those who are proposing these institutions - whether they are really promising people - I am not saying infrastructure or anything else, and none of them is saying, but we are going to set up a technology park, or we are going to set up a risk fund for the development of the economy, or we are going to encourage innovative entrepreneurs, or we are going to set up a small economy fund. That's not what we're talking about, but the sidewalk will be, the lighting will be, we'll have a football club and so on. You know, in Prekmurje we had a football club Nafta, Murska Sobota, Beltince - "ma is a white road," on two million inhabitants - including Goriška, Nova Gorica, Primorje Ajdovščina and so on. And now these clubs are shutting down. I think it's also going to be three, four strong, and then, well, that's another area, though. [[...]] I would like to point out that it is likely that this fragmentation of the congregations originates from the time when Marjan Podobnik forced the SLS from Drnovsk to start establishing even smaller congregations as stipulated in the law. Drnovšek gave up to survive then with this famous policy. And today we have 110 such congregations that do not fulfill their assignments as they should, or very difficult, or are very expensive. This does not mean that the mayors of small congregations do not work, that they are not burdened or that they do not deserve their own bread. I will also vote against enlargements further, and I think that this two million people, but now that Milan is as big as Nova Gorica, let's see if they have all these crazy machines out there that are burdening and preventing us from living better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate, and all of these old ones, which are ploys about the establishment of new municipalities, the new municipalities, are in fact due to the unfinished reform of local self-government, which began in the early 1990s and to this day unfortunately has not been completed. They have been accompanied, in my opinion, by rather bad legislation, which encourages or enables these things in some way. It will be difficult for me to limit myself today in my debate not to repeat myself or not to repeat some of the facts that have already been told again. But today, when we decide on new municipalities or options, we are only deciding that in these areas where some civil initiatives have asked for a new congregation to enable people living in these communities to come to a referendum and to decide at the consultation referendum or to express their wish in some democratic way. I think that we need to enable them in particular because this is also what the legislation is talking about, because, of course, some of the basic objectives set out in the legislation are met, and especially because we are democratic and we want to have the democratic will of people in the final stage taken into account. In this congregation, the will of the people at the consultative referendums was later concluded differently. And it is also an opportunity for the National Assembly not to set up congregations in the areas if it finds real valid reasons. Therefore, of course, it is extremely important how and how we will decide how we will approach these people and, above all, how we will prevent the fragmentation of the congregations in the future. In principle, it is my opinion - and here I fully agree with the position of our Group of Social Democrats that the fragmentation of municipalities reduces the possibility of development and democracy within a particular municipality. By not claiming and not talking about whether large or small congregations are better or worse; the success of the individual congregation depends primarily on the success of the people who run the congregation and the people who operate in the administration and self-government of such a congregation. If these are compatible, if they can find the right watts, if they can find the right development tasks, then they will be able to drive the congregation — large or small — successfully. And it can also happen that there are such obstacles in large congregations, urban congregations, that there is no real development. Also, why people choose to secede from a large congregation that gives relative security. Different relationships are whether these are personal relationships because the congregation’s leadership is not able to listen to the congregation’s affairs, and it is not able to deal with the problems that people suffer every day in both community and other areas and to try to develop them evenly. I think sometimes these grades are unfair and unfair. Even by different initiators, because they estimate for one year or two years - and this is not possible. If we look at it, Slovenia has developed extremely well in the last 20 years and the development of Slovenia in all areas, as Brulc has already said, and from the countryside to the cities has made a remarkable developmental transformation and therefore it is difficult here. I had previously given up discussions with other congregations, but I will focus on the congregation of Fram mainly because it is a congregation that is in the immediate vicinity of the place where I live, because I know the situation a little better, and because I know how and how they came to this initiative and because I talked to people there. Whether this is now all they wrote in the initiative and whether it will indeed "drink water" at the final stage is a question, but certainly the position of the Government, which says that the proposal for the establishment of municipalities is correct and meets the conditions set out in Articles 13 and 13a; therefore all these basic conditions, which are very loosely written in the Law on Local Self-Government, are met. Then, in a new explanation, he says that he does not meet the conditions set out in Article 14, when he speaks of whether the existing congregation of Raca will still meet the conditions for doing so. It states that the applicants merely indicated the number. The number was mentioned because it is the most mercurial, because it is generally known that in Rača and the school and the medical infirmary, it is sewerage and that all these basic conditions are met. Indeed, the number of inhabitants could be reduced. In this case, the population is divided into two almost equal halves. Also territorially, these two areas are truly separate. Both settlements separate the railway, the highway, the highway, and the remote control. I don't know what else. In this way, these two areas, apart from the municipal center, did not have much in common in the past. This is a possibility of some development or not. It is also true that the people who have been preparing these things are trying to convince people, but it is not a uniform opinion - that we are in the clear. But what will be the opinion of whether all humans will really do this or not, we are trying to do so with a conclusion that we will accept today or not accept. I do not have a problem with the vote myself because at the previous meeting, when we voted on the establishment of municipalities, I voted against the fact that the referendum zones, this is package A, those municipalities were voted on. But when this package was voted out, I've estimated that package B under the same conditions, under the same conditions, has this right. It is true, however, that at that time some of us warned that it is wrong to discuss this - or actually there was no discussion - in two packages, one "for" and one "no" on the basis of the decision of the parent working body. Back then, we wanted to talk about each congregation and each initiative in a special way, just as it is today. My decision here will be that against this decision, which prevents me from taking the initiative in the area of the congregation of Fram, not at least leading to a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Fortunately, I have now listened to a sober debate that also stemmed from the knowledge of the issue on the ground. Because I myself was a qualified candidate for this congregation, based on the fact that the initiators of Fram, that is to say, the local community, asked me to make a proposal for the establishment of a congregation. I myself know the situation there very well, and as has been said here, these are truly two very different works of the congregation of Raca - Fram. If this proposal is supported and if the law and constitution are respected, then there will be two rounded congregations, which I am sure will develop better and people will be more satisfied. Because we know a whole bunch of these cases. This does not mean that the rest of the congregation would lose the characteristics needed for the congregation. It remains a large part of the population, it is shared virtually ideally in half, and this is by no means the cause. The reason was elsewhere and from the previous discussions, not from the last, it was clear what made the government coalition smoky and what it had committed itself to. They're talking about breaking up congregations. Of course, new congregations are being formed. I myself did not consent to the formation of congregations in any case and in any way. However, people have the right to make decisions and to mature into the future on the basis of the legislation we have. And this legislation, which you all on average condemn as very bad, is the only legislation that draws Slovenia from becoming completely centralised. That all public money should be decided by a few people in the regime that is now in power. This is painful for the centres of power in the current coalition, which do not wish to respect neither the constitution nor the laws, nor the elementary and natural law and the rule of law. Before she spoke, we came to the realization that this law was a cancer of this society. That's not true! This law and such congregations, which now want to be established, guarantee transparent spending of public money and are successful. These congregations have so far dominated and dealt with money very effectively and very rationally and transparently. We cannot say this about the Ljubljana municipality, where money flows through, but it owes itself in all ways, and this will burden all citizens of Slovenia as soon as possible. And now she will have the opportunity to break into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That is also why the congregation or most of these congregations are not successful. Earlier it was said - and this is an insult - that 110 congregations are no one, that they do not meet the condition. They meet the conditions, ladies and gentlemen, and do not insult the people in these congregations! Mr. Kampush said that such congregations were by no means capable, I wrote, "to secure money or a cleaning project." But he can't see through the fence of his congregation, through the Upper Radgona. In Benedict, I heard, and even in Destrinnik, they had a cleaning plant, much earlier than in his congregation. What does that mean? Is he a poor mayor who has a relatively large congregation, unable to ensure that the others are so much better? I think this second option is right that some municipalities have really exceptional mayors. Then it was thesis that this was a primitive argument when people said that if there was no congregation, it wouldn't be asphalt. Today asphalt is no longer the most relevant thing, although in Haloza and where asphalt is not even found in all villages in the White landscape and in Posoč. And not with us at the Pohorje, either. But, look, in the last month, I've been to two municipalities, Makolah and Oplotnica at the openings, once a new gym in Makolah and in Opletnica at the foot of the school and even before the cultural home. The parishioners have made it clear, and I think that if they did not have their own congregation, they would have waited a number of years for this acquisition. Because almost every authority — and this one — with such a work as they were part of a single congregation, reveals them and says that this great congregation has received relatively much money. He does not want to tell the public that there are ten normal Slovenian municipalities within this large municipality, and then he receives funds for three normal municipalities. Of course, those funds are a little centralized, which is human. With the formation of municipalities, with the mayor who is good, who pressures and can turn money, who knows how to operate in his congregation, such a congregation has gained. Ladies and gentlemen, you are saying that the Law on Local Self-Government needs to be amended. Change it! But I don't think this option is capable of changing that, let's face it, because it's inoperable. Since yesterday it is for the Harmonized Regional Development Act, which they say is also bad, you have already written this in a coalition contract, extending the deadline from 6 months to 9 months, practically "at calendas grecas". This excuses that such a law will practically not be voted out, because in the Law on Harmonised Regional Development of Slovenia it would be difficult to talk about centralisation, which is the primary function of this coalition, of centralising these funds. Finally, I must say that I find it most strange that the novogorski mayor advocates the abolition of top football clubs in Slovenia. I mean, this anti-sports mood of some mayor, when our football has achieved one of the greatest successes, it's an attack on footballers that they don't work for some general social well-being. I could not imagine that we have such sports opponents among the mayors. So, just gambling seems to be important for this mayor and the money that comes into the municipality from gambling. Ivo Praise was responsible for this, so that the congregation could be bathed in money. That's enough, but I'd take it off. Thank you very much. I'm in favor of a different Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Kampush has the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to take this. I simply assume that colleague Jerovšek has forgotten his glasses today or is not telling the truth. The municipality mentioned it has cleaning facilities, according to the configuration that it is a hilly area, has a cleaning plant in specific areas, has a cleaning plant for the economy and only the town of Gornja Radgona has a cleaning plant. So you have to watch your back for a second time and remember the glasses you probably forgot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor, procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u110	Mr President, we need to be corrected. I didn't say that Upper Radgon didn't have it, but that, according to my information, the District and Benedict had it before, and that's what you heard. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u111	You promised to speak procedurally, thank you very much. There's no need to deceive. Mr. Tanko has the floor. Mr Dusan Kumar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, I must say that I do not like those seasonal sports "females" talking about their sports affections, which were sometimes in the Hall of Tivola - two, three years ago - sitting at basketball games and today they are no longer in these games or near it. And a second time. Some do not, do not know or simply do not listen when they dispute with certain views or facts that some Members here interpret. When I discussed in the previous debate that we are prisoners now, on 3 December 2009, of the conduct of the past fifteen years regarding the implementation of the reform of local self-government, I did not say anything about us being prisoners of unconstitutionality, illegality and so on. But I was talking about 15 years from the first of the other sets, basically going around and violating the Law on Local Self-Government in Articles 13 and 13a; and I mentioned why earlier. And, of course, this "political croaking" is due to this "political shopping" that we are listening to today in this National Assembly. Therefore, when you all say that further fragmentation of municipalities in Slovenia will lead to better and more promising development of individual areas and Slovenia as a whole. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Pomurje there are twenty-seven small municipalities, we passed a law a month ago on the development of Pomurje, on aid, because it simply does not go with these fragmented municipalities to have a developmental perspective. And I also said, first level, the first stage of this development was essentially over in 20 years. This is the infrastructure; road, sewerage, water. But, people of God! Of this, people cannot go to work, they do not earn 600, 800,000 euros. They have to make money for their existence somewhere else. Of course, these small congregations cannot guarantee this. And that's why my point and my "deal" is that this phase of this fragmentation has ended and I think there has to be a second phase to really give this development perspective to local self-government. And this problem that you all point out that those who are expelled from the present congregations have some problems with the center of the congregation. Do you think I live in Ljubljana - I live in a hamlet or a place called Podutik. In Podutik, however, there are more than 5,000 inhabitants. Do you think we have no problem with the centre, the development of Ljubljana? But we are on the brink, and after Articles 13 and 13a, we meet all the conditions six times, and I will count some for you. I said we have 5,000 inhabitants, we have mail, we have a library, we have a school, we even have a dog school, and this is one of the best in Slovenia. We have two churches, we have the largest church, the newest church in Slovenia. We have a tourist destination, the Tosko cello, where people are huddled every Saturday and Sunday on Tosko cello. We have three pubs, we have three buffets, we have two big markets, we have everything - but we don't have anything. People have to walk from Dolnice for a good half hour until the first bus stop. And that is why I would also have the initiative to establish the Podutik municipality, so that we can build, extend the road to Dolnice, to Krivec, and that, of course, the city bus also leads there and that people do not need to walk to the first bus station in the winter after the snow. Of course it doesn't work that way. It just doesn't work that way. But once again, when you talk about this centralisation within the current municipalities and about what the arguments are to eliminate it, we have problems like yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Does Mr Jerovšek want a word? You weren't mentioned. No, I really don't. Mr. Jerovšek, it's not. Mr Jerovšek, you have not been mentioned and I have the right to assess whether you were concerned or not, and I find that you are not. And I give my word, if he wants it, to the government representative. Mr. Gjerkesh, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I note that we have concluded the debate on this agenda item. The decision will be made in the fourth item of the agenda. I hope it's earlier than 10:45. I'm breaking up with this point. We're moving to four. Point of the agenda - Proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Upper Poland and for the determination of its area does not fulfil the conditions for the establishment of a municipality. The draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I give the floor to Vice-President Renata Brunskole to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development shall be held at the 5th meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. 12. 2009 as a parent working body on the basis of the judgment of the Administrative Court, of 5. 11. 2009 re-examined the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska, the proposed member of the Parliament, Jožef Jerovška. The Committee was informed of all the documents contained in the current procedure for setting up this municipality, namely the opinion of the Municipal Council, the opinion and the proposal of the Government, and the judgment of the Administrative Court. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in its opinion on the proposal for the establishment of municipalities of 2. Seven. 2009 assessed that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polskava is not in accordance with Article 139 of the Constitution because it shares a settlement. The non-coherence was eliminated by adopting an appropriate amendment by the proposer at a meeting of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Committee in July this year, so that the proposal, in the opinion of the Government, meets the legal requirements of Articles 13 and 13a of the Local Self-Government Act. Upon re-examination of the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development 1. 12. The Government explained that its opinion of 2. 7. undertakes and in principle does not support the further process of setting up municipalities for which it considers that it is unable to carry out legal tasks. The proposed new municipality would have about 2,500 inhabitants. In arguing that the proposal does not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality in view of the Government's principled position, that the new municipality will not have the required 5,000 inhabitants and that against the further fragmentation of municipalities, it was based on Article 1, paragraph 3, of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which provides that local self-government denotes the right and the ability of local authorities to regulate and manage an essential part of public affairs within the limits of the law in the context of its tasks and in the interests of its population. This provision is also based on Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which lays down the conditions for the establishment of municipalities. The number of inhabitants of the proposed new municipality Zgornja Polskava would, according to the Government of 2. 7. In terms of the principle of administrative and organisational rationality, it meant that the emergence of an even greater number of developing new municipalities would result in a weakening of the economic and financial power of existing municipalities. This was based on the view expressed by the 1988 Constitutional Court on the interpretation of the legal criteria for the application of equality with the historical comparative position. Therefore, taking into account the same criteria as in previous decisions of the National Assembly on a similar factual and legal basis and taking into account similar decisions when considering proposals at the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. He estimated that the economic and economic circumstances, which have a major impact on the social situation in particular areas of the Republic of Slovenia, were substantially changed in relation to the previous period. The decision taken by the Committee means that the Committee, in the context of the economic crisis in which the State is located, as a proposal for a legislative decision was based on the 1988 Constitutional Court and its position that the legislator may, in establishing a network of municipalities, be able to assess the conditions to be met in order to consider that the municipality established in that area will be able to meet the common needs, the interests of the population and the tasks in accordance with the law. The Committee also adopted a decision proposing to the Government an additional opinion on the basis of the decisions of the Administrative Court. At the meeting, the Committee voted on the conclusion that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska met the conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, as the applicant and certain members of the Committee held in the debate, but had not been adopted. On the basis of the decision taken by the Committee, a proposal is drawn up to conclude that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality and I propose that it be adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u115	Mrs. Brunskol, thank you very much. I invite you to remain for the speaker and present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We are also clear on this decision in the Group of Social Democrats. We oppose the call for a referendum and the establishment of new municipalities. The new municipality of Zgornja Polskava, which would be excluded from the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, would have 2597 inhabitants. We note that the area does not meet the criteria, as the applicant states that in the field of education in Zgornja Polska there is a branch six-year primary school of Anton Ingolič on Ingoličeva Street 6, 2314 Zgornja Polskava. Then the students are taken to Anton Ingolič elementary school in Lower Poland. The proposal no longer fulfils the basic condition for the establishment of a municipality laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government in its Article 13, namely, a complete primary school. The Constitutional Court stated in one of its rulings: "It is not enough just to argue that the future congregation will only approach the necessary investments, school building, health care home and so on." We will therefore vote in the Group of Social Democrats in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska and for the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much again. We now have before us a proposal to establish the municipality of Zgornja Polska, which is being excluded from the still large municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, which used to include the present municipality of Oplotnica, Poljčana and Makola. Of course, it is logical that the citizens of Zgornje Polska and their local community, or local community, have come to realize that a single congregation is an opportunity for faster development. And no one has the right to cut that off. This was also found by the Administrative Court in Maribor, which decided on 21.10.2009 to abolish the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that the region of Zgornje Polska does not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the change of its territory. In this case too, the court found that such a decision was arbitrary, that it was acted or decided differently in this assembly when the applicant was a government Member, and otherwise, when it was not a government Member. And he found an eccentric violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law. It also found that the principle of the rule of law was being scrupulously violated. Ladies and gentlemen, today you will have three opportunities to worship the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and to show whether you have understood the lesson of the judiciary that the rule of law must be respected. So let me say that in the Group of Members, we respect the opinion of citizens that a referendum should be held at this meeting, which gives citizens of this area the right to decide for themselves. It has been repeatedly stressed here that the law on local self-government is written in such a way that it is properly written to give citizens more development opportunities. And since it is an area with developmental problems, it is quite clear that citizens want to catch up or want to grow faster. Just in the area of the former Slovenske Bistrica, we see that it is good for the rest of the congregation, too, when three municipalities were separated. You can all see when you're driving along the highway, that Slovenska Bistrica is developing extremely fast, but the other parts are also developing. These are arguments that speak for themselves and we are confident in the Group of Members that it will be sober to consider whether to violate the Constitution and the rule of law or to respect the Constitution and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u120	Thank you, Chairman. As has already been said in previous points, the DeSUS Group also opposes the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska and the establishment of its border area, because we believe that this proposal does not meet all the conditions under which it could decide to establish a municipality. The proposed area does not comply with the conditions under the first indent of Article 13(2) of the Law on Local Self-Government, which requires that a complete primary school is provided in the area in which the new municipality is established, since there is an incomplete primary school in the proposed area, i.e. six classes. However, there are 2,500 and several more inhabitants in the area of the establishment of the new congregation. This time, too, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the decision taken by the mother’s working body that the proposal to become the new municipality of Zgornja Polska is incomplete or does not meet all the conditions that could make it a municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Lucky Friend. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer. [[He won't discuss it.]] Willie Rezman? [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Franz Gnyardsich? [[He won't discuss it.]] Anton Kampush? He won't discuss it. Marian Pojbich? Here's a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u122	Dear President! I simply cannot escape what is stated in the judgment on behalf of the people when it comes to this case, which we are now talking about. I will quote the last two sentences of this judgment on behalf of the people. The last paragraph reads as follows: "In view of the reasons, the Court finds that in the present case, in establishing the municipalities, the statutory criteria referred to in Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government did not determine or the importance it gave on that criterion, in the same cases, it did not apply the same. However, for unequal treatment, he did not state compelling reasons which would be compatible with the law. On the views of the Constitutional Court, which the Administrative Court must also take into account in the present case, such conduct constitutes a violation of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the principle of legality, and the principle of equality, second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." And the last paragraph: "After all these things, the court is based on the fourth point of Article 64, paragraph 1, of the Administrative Dispute Act. [[Uh-huh. I. RS, No. 105/06, ZUS/1]] , the plea was granted and the decision of the defendant in the contested part of the appeal and, to that extent, brought the matter back to the defendant in a retrial. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 64 of the ZUS/1, the court has set a period of 60 days for the defendant to rule again on the case. In the event of re-examination, the National Assembly, in accordance with the views expressed in this judgment, is obliged to determine whether the proposal under consideration fulfils certain conditions under the Constitution and the law for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polskava. In doing so, it must state compelling and reasonable reasons for its decision, so that it cannot be declared arbitrary. This is recorded in the judgment on behalf of the people recorded by the Administrative Court. And the decision proposed by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development did not take into account what was stated in this judgment. Not only is the decision arbitrary, but the decision is contrary to the judgment of the Administrative Court. And I cannot accept and cannot understand once again the honourable colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said, that in the National Assembly Members and Members of the Coalition allow themselves to take decisions and to vote in a different way than in the judgment of the Administrative Court, which followed the Constitutional Court, which made it clear. And I have also read these two key paragraphs from this judgment of the Administrative Court. In his previous implementation, a fellow Member of the Social Democrats said that the process of roads, water had been completed and I do not know what else. I must say, he was very wrong. Why? He said that the situation in Ljubljana was different. And in the way he tried to show that in Ljubljana these things are arranged, as far as local self-government is concerned. But if we look at Slovenian Gorica, not to talk about Pomurje, Prekmurje, not to talk about Koroška and so on, a lot of people don't even have water, drinking water. God does not allow road connections and so forth to solve this problem. How much do we need this first degree of local self-government? And this first degree of local self-government has ensured to people in this country that the minimum conditions necessary to live can be met. However, in order to be able to solve the problems that a second degree of local self-government should face, we should have regions. And that's the solution, that's the next step and the procedure that we should have done a long time ago. In the previous term, the Government has done everything possible to take this key step towards the development and future development of the whole Slovenian country. Not only do certain cities that enjoy primate today enjoy and can afford anything in this world. They can have 30% better living conditions than most periphery in this Slovenian country. And one of the key reasons why we are discussing this subject today is that. But most coalition members, who have a key objective and interest, most I say, I apologize that none of the coalition Members would be offended by the interest that what happened 50, 40, 30 years ago was the only and most important centralisation. It is important that Ljubljana has everything and that the periphery is only enough to survive. This is what I never, ever, am a Member coming from the periphery, can accept. In the National Assembly, I have the same right, the same task and the same responsibility to speak in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to exercise in the interest and interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's my job. It's in the constitution. This is what I have to do and what I have to do, because people have given me a voice that I can today be part of this key story that we call the National Assembly. And to all those who have not taken the time to at least read the judgment of the Administrative Court, I place my heart and warn you, at least pay attention and listen to what the Administrative Court has written. I'm laughing at a lady from the Social Democrats here, and I'm not thinking of you, ma'am, but I'm thinking of Mrs Bebler. The lady is a lawyer, but that doesn't mean anything if she's a lawyer. The mockery and laughter that she tries to piss me off with don't bring anything. It only points to how much you understand the things we're talking about right now. And if a member of the periphery is speaking, but may not be expressing himself well, it is for you, even if he speaks of a quality, responsible content that is crucial to the future of this country, you find it funny, because you have everything you want or most of it in this country. Most of the periphery in the Republic of Slovenia does not. That is why I cannot afford, Mrs Bebler, to say this and to stress that I have the right to say it, and you can replicate it. Your laughter is cynical and extremely irresponsible. I don't think he's just irresponsible, he's even more problematic because you're trying to deny what I'm trying to say with this cynical laugh. However, I would like to say that it is not allowed in this country to decide the same things in the National Assembly in a different way. And it is the judgement of the Administrative Court that, through decisions in all three, four or more cases, has proved that the Committee on Local Self-Government has not already ruled in accordance with legislation for the second time, either in accordance with the decisions and views of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary. And if he has not done so, it is true that we must respond to this, we must seek solutions that will be in accordance with the law and the constitution and the one to which the very legislative branch of power is most subject. But we are denying it, and certainly not in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We supported everything the Administrative Court wrote down because we know exactly what we want, believe and work according to what we were elected to do. We respect legislation, respect the legislative branch of authorities and respect the judiciary. And we want this to be done in accordance with what the Constitution imposes on us and what legislation we have adopted ourselves. However, those who voted against this at the Committee on Local Self-Government, and these are Members and Members of the SD, LDS, Zareza - here I have to say very clearly, and I apologize to the Member of this Committee, Mr Gumar, who opposed such decisions because he understood that the decision of the Administrative Court should be respected, which clearly tells what was going on. I am particularly pleased to say this in my implementation that today Mr Gumzar has announced that the LDS will support the decision to hold referendums in all these three proposals. That is what Mr Gumzar made clear in the views of this Group. And to the end. Dear friends, distinguished ladies and gentlemen and Members and Members of Parliament! I do not want anyone here today to feel that I am performing because of the media, because most of us are not being tolerated, they do not tolerate this meeting of the National Assembly, but I speak in the interest of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we have clearly designed objectives, positions and attitudes towards citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are aware that it is necessary to respect the will of the people, that it is necessary to give opportunity to those who wish to be otherwise organized in this country. As long as we have legislation that requires us to be able to come to our congregations in one way or another, but which must comply with the rules laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government, and all those, including the proposal for this legal arrangement, satisfy the legal conditions. And I cannot understand, I cannot understand, once again, that the Committee on Local Self-Government has been able to adopt different solutions than those referred to by the Administrative Court and the judgment adopted. To respect, I am confident that the National Assembly will take account of the Governing Court's judgment at the time of this meeting and will try to close this issue in such a way that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who have expressed their desire and interest in their municipalities will be able to carry out the referendum. Because after the referendum, after all, the National Assembly will still decide whether or not to form one of the new congregations. And I believe that we will be able to do so much wisdom and I believe that we have so much responsibility as the legislative branch of power that we will take into account what the Administrative Court has warned us about. And that's the only thing I expect from the National Assembly. If we are unable to do so, it is better not to sit as a legislative branch of power in this National Assembly. Or we have consciously committed ourselves to violate the Constitution, the law and all the rules that apply in democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u123	Thank you. Does Mrs. Renata Brunskole have a word? [[She won't discuss it.]] The government's representative wants it? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Let us ask ourselves whether it was necessary for the National Assembly to receive an earring, three times, that the Administrative Court and the Court of Justice must correct the government coalition, which, of course, harms the entire reputation of the National Assembly to decide against the law. People sometimes imagine that we Members are particularly interested in creating more than one congregation. I must say that I constantly explain to my citizens and voters that from the point of view of commodity, when I was a member of the constituency, it was in the former municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, when there was only one municipality. And if anything was necessary, I only contacted one mayor, and that was a good mayor, former Minister Jagar. But in those years, I have never been able to deny the desire or thinking of our people so that there might be a different form of improvement and such a desire to disrespect. And on the basis of such a thought, three congregations were formed: Oplotnica, Poljčane, Makola. I've been to everyone's resistance. And today, everyone is grateful that these congregations are developing well and, as I mentioned earlier, the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica is developing extremely well. You admit that. Also because my client is always in this coalition, the congregation, and is actually working for the good conduct of the congregation. It is similar with the desire of the local community, the leadership of the local community of Zgornja Polskava, to be tested at a referendum for their own congregation. This is a slightly different territory from the neighboring part of the congregation, and of course they rightly think, in accordance with legislation. And I never gave up that principle and this fight. This, I hope, probably everyone admits that I am 14 years here always the same, that I will always stand up for my places and for the decentralisation of Slovenia and for what brings development to all the seasons of Slovenia. Not as I see the philosophy and direction of the current coalition, that only some financial centres, some oligarchies, should be supported again, that they will then decide what is right for the development of Slovenia. This is the kind of philosophy that Slovenians will not accept if you force it so stubbornly. The Slovenians will make the majority decision for the benefit of their children to develop their congregations in order to develop new jobs there. And it's the right thing to do. What you have promoted for some time after these centres of power and in this political option, this Taiwanisation of Slovenia must be stopped. And if the tycoons are the greatest mayors or have such desires, they should be clearly told that there is no room for the development of Slovenia in this direction. Slovenia must be developed in a consistent manner. And if any change is going to create a better situation for a millimeter than before, and practice has shown us that this is going in this direction, such a thing has to be supported. It's up to people to decide. Then we'll make a decision. Then the decision will be made at the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate between Members and Members. He wants the word "minister"? [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded our debate on the proposal for a decision. Since an amendment that is capable of making a decision has not been tabled, I hereby terminate this agenda item. We will continue the session by vote today at 7.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u126	We continue our extraordinary session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the 1st item on the agenda - the announcement of decisions taken at the referendum on the establishment of municipalities or on the modification of their areas, which was on 8 November 2009. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia declares that at a referendum on the establishment of municipalities or on the modification of their areas, which was carried out on 8 November 2009, following the Decree of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the call for a referendum and the establishment of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities or for the modification of their areas, the adopted decisions of electorates and voters, as found in the report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and the outcome of the referendum on the establishment of municipalities or on the modification of their areas, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 94/09 of 20.11.2009. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We turn to item 2 of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision finding that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the Dobrova municipality and the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 21. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 21.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. We are moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda, which is on the proposal for a decision finding that the proposal for the initiation of proceedings for the establishment of the municipality of Fram and for the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. I'm opening time for a vote. First, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The explanation will be practical for both points, even for the following, because the points are quite identical. As in the preceding paragraph, we will also vote against such a decision, for we are aware that these are the congregations that meet the conditions for the establishment of the congregations and that referendums are to be carried out in which people decide what kind of community they want to live in. At the same time, it is also a vote on respect for the Constitution and legality. I hope and I am sure that sufficient warnings have been given by the Court that the National Assembly should not decide arbitrarily, such as those two cases and the previous ones, have been communicated to us by the Court. The principle of equal opportunity and the rule of law must be respected. There will be a bad message if the government coalition is against the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Anyone want to explain their voice in their personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 21. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 21.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. We move on to the 4th item of the agenda and to the decision on the decision that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska and for the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. I don't see a report. We're voting. There were 38 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. I repeat the vote. I shall put the motion to the vote. We're voting. Forty Members and Members of Parliament have been notified. I'm taking a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-03-SDZ5-Izredna-17.ana.u129	Dear Members and Members! Let's get back to work. We turn to the third vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Zgornja Polska and for the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 21. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] The decision is adopted. With this we have concluded the fourth item of the agenda and today's session. Thank you so much and good night.
