ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the continuation of the 5th National Assembly meeting. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Victory by Jelinčič Trimeniti, Villa Rezman, Joško Godec, Franc Jurša, Matjaž Zanoškar, Jakob Preseknik by 3 p.m., Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Peter Verlič by 3 p.m. and Janja Klasinc. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. Period of the day - this is firstly a proposal for an end-of-life death allowance law, within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Vinko Gorenak. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Vinko Gorenak, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Respected to better understand each other and to better decide to adopt this law, I am obliged to cut down in 1999. The pension reform was adopted in 1999. This pension reform actually gives results, gives effects and, in essence, lasts. In 2001, something happened that, at least not expected in our parliamentary group, was that there was a change in the way pensions were coordinated. The then government, in cooperation with representatives of the then DeSUS, has adopted a reform that has left pensions lagging behind for real wage growth. The pensioners thus lost 2.5 to 3 pensions by 2004. In 2004, our party made it clear at the time of the election campaign that it would change the mode of coordination to make it more favourable for the pensioners, and it did so in February 2005. Pensions thus began to grow, in line with wage growth, in some normal proportion to wages. We also talked a lot about pensions in 2008. DeSUS representatives, at least their president spoke of a thousand euros in pension, and later he recovered. However, I must quote another statement from my environment from that time. Somewhere in Rogaška Slatina or Podčetrtek he said, "We all come to DesUS." I wasn't even aware of his statement, but a day later I met one of DeSUS's local representatives, who told me he was once in my client's office, and yet he went to DeSUS. Normally, we didn't fight, everything was fine, but you know, I retired. Thus, the effects of such statements are known and practically evident. Following the 2008 elections, the government coalition adopted and pledged, in its coalition agreement, to pay the pensioners a single pension allowance of EUR 300 in January and September 2009. A month later, she forgot about this in her 2009 work programme. This law fell out, so I asked Minister Svetlik a question in January 2009, but he did not answer my question, at least when this will be paid. That is why I tabled my application in February 2009, so we have tabled a law that we are considering today. At that time, the law was marked by a coalition for populism. In March 2009, we tabled an amendment to the budget, which was very clear. The budget should provide for these funds in 2009. You rejected this amendment. The government today reports in its opinion on this law a very clear position: the law is not suitable for further consideration, because it makes selection between pensioners and those with the lowest pensions - so that we can deeply agree and commend the Government that it wants to pay a single allowance to all those at risk, including the pensioners. But the problem is, of course, I can't believe it. Why can't I believe it? For a fundamental reason, because the government report makes it very clear that the government will make an analysis in this area. So she won't make a decision until after the analysis. Therefore, I propose that today's law, if you wish, be amended in such a way that the pensioners will receive this allowance earlier, and that the Government may pay it later to all other socially disadvantaged. This is kind of a compromise that you can accept. I also reject the opinion in that part of the Government, which says that, of course, the matter is not such that this law is unfair because it foresees the payment of EUR 300, 200 and 150 only in 2010. That's true on a principled level. However, you have rejected the amendment we have proposed, so you now have the opportunity to correct it. Under the circumstances when Minister Lahovnik resigns or thinks of his resignation, it would be good for you to support this law when you suspend Minister Križanič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a single pension supplement law is intended to address the socio-economic situation of pensioners with the lowest pensions in 2010. I believe that in times of global financial crisis, the law, as proposed, is a well-intentioned but not the best solution. The social state in which we live must ensure social security for all groups of the population, and therefore for all those whose income and material situation is comparable and whose situation is deteriorating as a result of unfavourable situations. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not therefore support the Single Pension Allowance Act, as such a law, with a targeted focus on a particular category of the population, would cause social inequality, both between the various socially vulnerable groups of the population and among the pensioners themselves. In accordance with the principle of the social state, which must ensure a minimum standard of living for anyone with the same assets or assets, by targeting the income situation of pensioners with the lowest pensions, all other persons whose assets or assets are comparable are placed in an unequal social position and would need state aid to the same extent. These, for example, are recipients of monetary social assistance, unemployed with the lowest or no compensation and so on. The applicant also does not take into account the other income and property situation of the pensioners and their family members, but only their pension, which does not provide for the full economic and social situation of the pensioners, since they may otherwise have a large amount of property, which is also the basis for their situation. The Government has already included the adoption of a specific intervention law because of this and aware of the difficult situation of individual social categories in the third government package of short-term measures to mitigate the economic and financial crisis. By means of this law, it will grant the socially disadvantaged inhabitants or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who represent the income and wealthiest strata of the population, one single solidarity aid to ensure their social security. This will ensure equal social treatment for all categories of the population. In addition, this law will provide assistance already this year when this is most necessary, while the proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Vinko Gorenak would not come in until next year. Let me add that we are preparing a special measure for the pensioners, so that, on the basis of this measure, pensioners who have been part of the supplementary pension scheme for a short period of time could obtain their funds before fulfilling certain legal conditions 10 years from the inclusion. In short, today those who have been included in this second pillar in the private sector do not have this option 10 years ago and we are thinking about opening it up to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We fully support the law in the Slovenian National Party. The proposer proposes a change due to the increased attention of vulnerable groups of the population, in a particular case of pensioners. I think that this was also one of the coalition promises and pledges made by one of the ruling parties and that this could already be realized. A single supplement is to be expected by pensioners along with August’s pension, and it is unlikely that they will receive it because this law will not receive sufficient support today. If we look at comparative analysis in other countries, we can find that if there is a crisis for us, it is also likely for others that in Hungary, which is comparable to the social situation, there is a much worse social situation there, and this coordination is done, Portugal, Italy has one annual coordination for comparison. The purpose of this law, if adopted, will be to further improve the material and social situation of low-retirement beneficiaries. These categories mainly include pensioners who receive lower pensions than EUR 500. Together with other measures, for example, we could address the imbalance in this area. For this, Slovenia needs some funds, calculated EUR 63.8 million, but given what can be paid in Slovenia, this should not be a problem. And it is interesting when a person reads the government's opinion when the government notes that when preparing the proposal after inertia, the proposer follows the regulation of the single pension supplement law, but writes that, in comparison to this law, the bill does not have the nature of the intervention law and is the only reason that this proposal is rejected. For me, that's a very unprincipal answer. And if this isn't interventional - then what is interventional? Solve effectively failed investments for individuals? The government also had a thought a while ago to reach out to the social rights of even children, but I am glad that it has distanced itself from this and that it is no longer discussed. Indeed, the diet that we voted on in the previous term should also be abolished. It was also calculated there that it should be saved, just as it is intended on this item to address the social problem. If we look at the actual structure of the pensioners, then we must also touch on the rural pensions. It's a sad situation. Some receive less than 200 euros. And respected colleagues and colleagues, how can someone in Slovenia survive with 200 euros? If you find me this person who can pay for electricity, water and only those bills that come in daily, monthly in a house with less than 200 euros, then I will believe that this law is not necessary today. If we are talking about a social state that we like to talk about when it comes to social democracy, it is also enshrined in the Constitution, then it would be very social to take this initiative today to find these 63.8 million euros, and if not in the whole area, to solve at least this segment. While the government wants to regulate this issue in some whole law, which would also cover the entire population of poverty, the weakest strata of the population, etc. - states in response to the Government. But I do believe that this will not happen soon, today, and now we have this proposal on the table. And I would like to put an end to this pouch-headed behaviour and thinking, because throughout all the mandates of the independent Slovenia, there is one and the same thing that is not in fact as good as the practice of anyone in the National Assembly bringing a good proposal, the ruling position is voting and because it is not the right title or not the right candidate, it is deleted. We should act constructively now that there is a crisis, and listen to smart suggestions from the other side, and I think it would be right if only we could save what we can get rid of and not put the problem to tomorrow, because tomorrow will be even worse. The recession and crisis are likely to further deepen the social abyss, and in this area there are groups most in need of financial assistance. I tell you that it is incomprehensible that we live in Slovenia and that pensioners are those who have spent their entire lives in this treasury, but today they do not have enough to live a decent life or the fall of their lives. It's unworthy, it's unworthy! It would be right for someone who has worked his whole life to have so much money at his age that he can live with dignity. This is more normal in other countries that do not have such a social note than in us. As has already been said, we will support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support all initiatives and measures that really help alleviate social distress. The problem of low pensions and salaries seems to us to be more extensive and deeper. Without getting rid of it only with occasional supplements, the whole system needs to be repaired. Of course, the most ideal solution would be to raise wages and pensions for all. Can such a one-time measure, a supplement, for example, help resolve the plight of a pensioner who has a net pension with an additional €190, by adding one-off assistance to him in the maximum proposed amount of €300? At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the Member of the Slovenian People's Party raised an oral question and reminded the Government and the competent minister of the low pensions, in particular the farmers receiving the lowest pensions. What will you do to raise these lowest pensions, which are largely received by older farmers, who, especially after the war, have worked hard for compulsory retirement and disability insurance? The question itself is whether or not a person is worthy and worthy, but someone who can work does not work and receives higher social support than someone who has worked hard all his life on a farm and has 180 euros a month to live on. The peasant women, as we know, couldn't even be insured in the previous system. Nor could the wives of craftsmen be insured, and the Minister rightly pointed out in his reply that it was the members of the Slovenian People's Party that reached the so-called state pension in 2000, which is good and we want to upgrade the system. It is clear, however, that at the present time, it does not guarantee decent survival, especially if it is received only by one in the family. It is also known that if income did not include family social benefits, the risk of poverty in Slovenia would be as high as 25%. It may be agreed with the statement in the reply of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is right and fair for all social and economically equally vulnerable categories of the population to recognise aid to the same extent, also on the basis that the proposal for a law provides that the means of payment of allowances are the burden of the budget of the State, which, after constitutionally provided, must provide a system-wide transparent and fair social system, which is financed according to the economic possibilities of the State. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the Government to take effective measures to strengthen the economy so that it will be able to provide adequate income and to fill state cash and social funds. By nature, we Slovenians are working, and we want to earn money for ourselves and our families. Clearly, any help is welcome to someone who has such low incomes that the supplement at least eases his distress, and at that point, the person is short - breathed, but the problem of survival remains. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a bill by a fellow Member, and we expect the Government to take appropriate systemic measures which can already be included in this proposal for a law already in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. By the SDS Group, i.e. from the Members of this Group, a law has been introduced in the parliamentary procedure to provide adequate income support in the form of a single pension allowance by means of its action. And according to the state-of-the-art assessment, especially for the most socially vulnerable categories of the population, including pensioners with the lowest pensions. In the LDS, we agree with any initiative aimed at improving the income and material social position of an individual, but of course it should be noted here at the outset that the intention of the proposer has been correctly written - that is to say, to all the most socially disadvantaged categories of the population - and, of course, only one group is affected by the law below. Given that the introduction today presented what was done during the government of Janez Janša, it would be necessary to say that the pensioners with the lowest pensions in the previous mandate of Janez Janš were given certain austerity measures when the Government, by means of a modified way of coordinating social transfers, contributed to the fact that many pensioners were left without a protective allowance. At that time, as opposition Members - and also part of the then coalition - we warned that the amendment of the law on the coordination of social transfers could lead to an even weaker social situation, and unfortunately we did not hear the coalition, especially the largest coalition party. The consequences were very rapid and we supported the laws relating to the protection allowance, the one-off allowance, and we also supported all those changes that would interfere with the improvement of the law on social transfers. At that time, the ruling coalition and some ministers and the President of the Government also heard many underestimating evaluations. Thus, when the staff were alerted to inappropriate measures, they were sent home to come when the weather was better. Those who had pointed to their weak social status were told that it was necessary to accept the times when they needed to eat old bread. We are also often witnesses to allegations that the system of reconciliation of pensions results in a decline in the ratio between the average age pension and the average wage, which is true. However, in the LDS we point out that there are changes between salaries and pensions also due to tax reform because the pensioners have been reduced in benefits. According to the new law of 2006, after the 112th Article, a pensionee from compulsory pension and disability insurance is granted a reduction in income of 13.5% of the calculated pension from compulsory pension and disability insurance, which was previously 14.5%. Now there's something about content. The content of the Single Pension Supplement Act itself follows the content of the Single Draganjska Supplement Act, which was adopted in mid-2008 in order to prevent the material deterioration of pensioners with the lowest pensions due to rising prices of living needs. In the LDS, we are certainly aware that a number of pensioners, particularly those with the lowest pensions, are still at risk of material position and therefore need assistance. However, it is recalled that during the global economic and financial crisis, which has also affected Slovenia, the material situation has also deteriorated significantly for other categories of inactive persons, i.e. the unemployed, who receive a financial compensation for unemployment or financial social assistance. However, there are also a number of active residents, unfortunately, with insufficient income, who for various reasons are unable to obtain sufficient means of survival. Therefore, a reasonable question is raised whether the adoption of the proposed law would still follow the principles to be followed by this law and also referred to by the proposer. Among other things, the principles of reciprocity and solidarity should be most implemented. This includes intergenerational solidarity between young and older people and solidarity between active and inactive populations. In our view, unequal treatment of comparable population groups could lead to a situation where the state would not act fairly and in the same way to all socially and economically disadvantaged categories of the population. It is also impossible to defend the principle of reciprocity and solidarity, as well as the principle of the social state in general, if, in difficult and changing economic conditions, all those who should receive equal State aid in terms of assets and assets are directed at the income position of pensioners with the lowest pensions. Nor do the applicants consider the fact that there are significant differences in the material situation even between pensioners with the lowest pensions, as some do not belong to the socially disadvantaged despite the low income situation. This could lead to solutions where the aid would be obtained by those who are less needed and whether they receive smaller aid, the social situation of which would indeed be significantly worse. Furthermore, the indiscretion of the law also shows the inequality of remuneration within the recipients of the supplement. If I were to make an example of: if we had a spouse from whom one is receiving a low pension and one outstanding pension, the sum of both pensions would significantly exceed the value of two spouses who would both receive a low pension, i.e. 500 euros, even though they would receive this supplement. Weakness of the law is also a time for granting aid. In our view, therefore, unlike the applicants providing for the social assistance of a single pension allowance in two parts only in 2010, aid should be provided this year. That the applicant also did not intend to seek solutions for all the most socially disadvantaged, they speak the words of the applicant himself, Dr Gorenak, who, in discussing the 2009 budget rebalancing, states that pensioners should be given what they were promised once, rather than from the need to ensure greater social security. In order for the country to be effective in providing assistance to all those in difficult economic and social situations, without distinction between active and inactive population groups, we support the Government's proposal to mediate to the National Assembly an intervention law that will provide unique solidarity to all socially disadvantaged people in the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure their social security. In this way, the necessary assistance will be granted this year and not until next year. Of course, we also support the other proposals presented here today on behalf of the Government by the Minister and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for the purpose of improving the social situation of pensioners. At the LDS Club, we also expect the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare an analysis of social security transfers, which would be the basis for possible changes with a view to ensuring greater efficiency and transparency in the use of budgetary money while improving the situation of materially disadvantaged groups, where pensioners are certainly subject to low pensions. We also expect the Government to have a long-term impact on the abolition of further social disintegration through systemic pension policy measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Single Pension Allowance Act, which is ahead of us, again provides reasons for the introduction of a single pension allowance. As a reason or argument for the introduction of this law, however, firstly - the reduction or elimination of the effects of inflation, secondly - the maintenance of the living standard of pensioners with the lowest income and thirdly - their further improvement in the material and social situation. So if we touch on all of these arguments, one after the other, we can see that the arguments are actually relatively torn apart. First, about inflation. The reason for the introduction of the Single Pension Supplement Act last year was, as has been said many times, an extraordinary increase in living costs or inflation, which was 7% during the June - July 2007/2008 period. Thus, of course, the adoption of such a law was justified. However, already in the second half of 2008, the increase in living costs decreased, even negative, and in January of this year it is only 1% compared to March. This is said to be the case, the inflationary movements this year do not jeopardise the income of pensioners on their own and therefore cannot be the reason for the adoption of the new Single Supplement Act. Another time. Pensions and security allowances are aligned with wage increases. In November 2008, they increased by 4.6% and were also charged from 1 January 2008 onwards and, secondly, increased in February 2009 with a calculation of 1.1 further. However, as my colleague Germič has already pointed out, you have adopted by voting a law on social transfers, which has introduced a system of social transfers valorisation in an uneven way, all other recipients of social transfers receive the valorisation of their benefits in line with the increase in living costs. Given that the growth of social transfers in the second half of 2008 was negative, the recipients of other forms of social transfers were not valorised, let alone accounted for. Their income position is worse than other categories, especially pensioners. Third time. Of course, the third principle is that we must strive to improve the social and material situation of those most at risk. However, the application of the principle of social justice dictates the State's concern for all, not just one group of socially disadvantaged people, or we will have a reverse effect. By focusing on pensioners, we place other socially disadvantaged persons and families in an unequal position. The negative effects of the global economic crisis are, in addition to pensioners, subject to other categories, especially the unemployed, low-income workers, so that we do not talk about beneficiaries of financial social assistance. Target-oriented measures should thus facilitate the social situation of all those who need it, taking into account both common income and property, as well as the number of family members. Let me tell you, with income below €200 per family member, there are over 40,000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, and 41% of the beneficiaries of such assistance are between 27 and 45 years of age, these are those who have children who have to distribute their income to one or two parents among several family members. It is not surprising, therefore, that the most vulnerable are among families with children and that special attention should be paid to these. In short, all these arguments are in favour of the need to develop a comprehensive policy aimed at all socially disadvantaged people in the form of single-aid intervention measures, as announced by the Government in the third package of measures. This measure will start already in the autumn of this year, that is to say when the needs are greatest, both because of the acquisition of the winter house and because of the start of the new school year and not only in the following year, as proposed by the law- tabled Members headed by Mr Gorenak. In short, this law will not violate the coalition commitment, but will extend to all socially disadvantaged people. Finally, pensioners themselves oppose this type of intervention. At the recently organised round table of ZDUS Pensions yesterday, tomorrow, they wrote: "It is unacceptable to solve the problem of low pensions with a Draganj allowance, which is unselective and does not take into account the actual property situation of potential beneficiaries." As a result of all the above arguments, the Group of Members will not support the draft law on the single pension allowance. It will support the law it submitted at the next meeting of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In the previous mandate, from 2004 to 2008, a number of measures have been taken to improve the social and economic situation of citizens and citizens. The situation of a large group of people who are largely unable to influence monthly benefits has been improved, so we are talking about pensioners. The amended pension law allows for the coordination of pensions with wage increases. The so-called regression increased by 23% and 34% respectively. In addition, the situation of pensioners receiving a pension of less than EUR 500 has improved with a single pension allowance paid to 250,000 pensioners and pensioners in August last year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are well aware of the situation of pensioners who receive the lowest pensions, and we do not appreciate that, as a result, a renewed proposal for an exceptional one-off measure aimed at improving the material and social situation of low-retirement pensioners is necessary. The beneficiaries of the single pension allowance will also be pensioners who enjoy old age, including early, disabled, widowed, state, old or family pensions under the former law on the age insurance of farmers whose pension paid in December 2009 will not exceed EUR 500. The payment will take place in two instalments, the first in the month of February 2010 and the second in the month of August 2010. Well, and if the coalition, namely members of the Social Democrats, Zares, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and DeSUS, supported the Slovenian Democratic Party's 64 million-euro amendment to the budget rebalancing a month ago, it could have been implemented already this year. Unfortunately, the coalition did not listen, despite the procedure already introduced in the law that we are considering today. Pensioners whose main cost is food, billing and housing, the poorer material situation is felt most directly and in the vast majority of cases cannot affect monthly income. When I read the Government's position on the proposed law, I was disappointed on the one hand, and on the other hand I expected the Government to oppose this law. Well, the explanation states: "The law does not have the nature of the intervention law, because it is deliberately and conceptually inappropriate and is also legally inadmissible." So, I repeat, the government has written down that this supplement is inadmissible. The intervention law, which provides for the single state aid to the inactive part of the population, is not justified in the current situation, as other categories of inactive persons are subject to the negative impact of the increase in the price of living in times of financial crisis in addition to those with the lowest pensions. Well, here in the position of the Government is a demented statement made by the representative of the Social Democrats before me that there has been no increase in the cost of living. The government notes, however, that other categories of inactive persons are subject to the negative effect of rising prices of living needs during the financial crisis, in addition to pensioners with the lowest pensions. So, agree, coalition and government, how will you defend this rejection of the law? The government further states: "This is the way to regulate the prevention of poverty of the socially weak strata of the population," and now most importantly, "because it means a shift from the current governmental thinking on mitigating measures in times of crisis." Yes, of course it's a retreat! The government is basically just talking, and this is a concrete measure for concrete assistance. In its opinion, the government is predicting a third package of measures - so we are talking about a third package - in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are wondering where the first two are. Well, one of the measures is supposed to take care of all the socially disadvantaged in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will take such a measure when - of course, here we wonder if - we will certainly support it, but frankly, until we see it, we will not believe it. We've been waiting too long for something effective from the government of Borut Pahor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're the ones who make the laws in the National Assembly. We also accept budgets, so in our hands we have all the levers to support today's pension allowance, and there is no need to wait for the government's actions, which we have been predicting and waiting for for, in fact, too long. This isn't about prestige. In view of the fact that the Government is dealing with itself or who will control something, it is difficult for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party to agree on the idea that there will be changes in the thinking of government representatives. We propose that we adopt the law today and thus fulfil the promises made before the elections on all sides, on all sides, that pensioners, who are the most vulnerable group of citizens and citizens, will try to improve their material situation, including a single pension allowance. That promise of thousands of euros, however, is likely to have been forgotten by pensioners and pensioners - whether or not. Slovenian pensioners and pensioners deserve to be treated with special sensitivity for their past work. This is not a group of people who could offer them a job, which would - by the way - the government, if it had a concept and solutions, could, by means of measures, provide young and working-age citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, there is no direct stimulation for these younger ones, and we all look forward to what the third or third package of anti-crisis measures will bring. Messengers and Members! The government is responsible for solving social problems, including the poorest layer of Slovenk and Slovenes. And because there are no measures, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose that we, Members and Members, step together and do what we all know is necessary. I am sure that there is no one in this room today who disagrees with the need to do so. So let's support the law and help the government, so that it doesn't have to deal with thinking whether or not it would, or whether it would in this way, or in another way and do something that the Single Pension Supplement Act will have to take into account and also make payments. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported by law. However, I have another matter to say about that press conference that was just discussed. This conference was 12. 2. 2009 Immediately after that, the STA summarized the event at this conference. It was written this way: "Although in the coalition contract four coalition parties - SD, Indeed, DeSUS and Liberal Democracy - stated that they intend to propose a special law in 2008 taking into account social and public sustainability, which will provide for a special addition to the lowest pensions. According to their current assumptions, the supplement is to be paid in two instalments, scheduled for January and September." And then it goes, "For the recipients of the lowest pensions, an allowance of EUR 300 will be paid and a calculation will be adjusted, which will limit the total amount of the allowance paid in 2009 to a maximum of EUR 60 million." - that's when they wrote it down. That is precisely why this law needs to be adopted today. We, Members and Members of Parliament, accept it and entrust it to the Government to make this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we really follow the constitutional principle of the social state, which must cover completely all categories of the population who today, unfortunately, live below the poverty line. However, let us point out that in the previous mandate, we have already pointed out the growing differences made by government policy on the one hand and, on the other hand, the overblown financial balloon, which, through the financial and economic crisis, has plunged more people, including employees, into poverty and an unprecedented situation. Finally, the fact that it is the government of Janez Janša that has substantially reduced taxes on the richest layers and tax burdens on capital owners and thus promoted appetites after taking over businesses. At the same time, it has allowed enormous increases in the awards and salaries of administrations and supervisors in parastatal companies, which have proved to be highly incompetent and cost-effective and have brought down a whole host of companies, such as: HIT, Paloma, Elan, Intereuropa, Luka Koper and so on. The research we read about days ago is also menacing. 22 000 employees with individual management contracts, i.e. leading staff of various ranks, receive 30% of the total wage in Slovenia in their pockets. If we know that all employees in Slovenia are about 700 000, then we know if we can calculate that in Slovenia 3% of employees get one third of all salary money. That's why it's a lot of swindling and a little bit funny how today big advocates and supporters of poorer ones who have supported capital, owners, managers and the like yesterday. And there may also be some other, perhaps more politicized targets, especially when they attack one coalition party in particular. Why? It is worth noting that not only low-retirement pensioners but also other socially disadvantaged groups are among the most vulnerable. The latter now include more and more employees in employment relationships, recipients of unemployment or financial social assistance, whose total annual income does not exceed €9250. The law before us is some kind of continuation in the previous mandate of the adopted law on the protection allowance, which, by its measures, has intervened to improve the social status of pensioners. However, the financial and economic environment was significantly different when this law was adopted, so in this situation its content, in our view, no longer follows the principle of the social state. The law provides for one-off cash assistance only for the part of the inactive population and forgets that other categories of inactive persons such as unemployed persons, the working population with minimum incomes, are becoming increasingly poor when the price of living needs increases during the global financial crisis. It is therefore right to remember them in this crisis, in addition to those who have retired, and not to forget them. From this point of view, we therefore agree with the Government's view that the proposed law at a certain point does not treat certain mutually comparable categories of the population equally, but at the same time violates the principle of the social state. We therefore support the Government's intention to facilitate the difficult social situation of all those in need, i.e. the active part of the population, through targeted measures, thereby providing them with the necessary means of survival. The National Statistics Office calculated that 11.5% of people lived below the poverty threshold in 2007. The annual poverty threshold for a single family was €5940. The available income of those living below the poverty line was lower than €495 per adult per month. Data on poverty risk rates based on household labour intensity were expected and show that they were in the worst position of a household without active members. Under the poverty threshold, 54% of those in these households, with dependent children, and 30.6% of those in households without dependent members lived. Among the unemployed there were 35%, 20.1% of women in retirement and 19% of other inactive persons, as well as 16% of self-employed persons. Of these households, single-member households are in the worst position. These are 39% of whom older women have been particularly exposed to the 47% risk of poverty. If income did not include social transfers, the rate of poverty would double to 23%. However, if pensions were deducted from income, the rate of poverty would increase to 39%. 200,000 people living in poverty are too many. But if we added hidden poverty to it, the numbers would be, unfortunately, much higher. This year, the picture is even worse, as thousands of people lost their jobs because of the economic crisis. The registered unemployment rate in Slovenia increased by 0.4% to 8% in February, according to January. In February, the number of people employed decreased by about 3 000 500, and in February, 77 000 people were registered at the Employment Service. Such alarming data, according to the assessment of the Group of Members, are undoubtedly in need of a systematic approach by the country in this area to cover all categories of the population facing shortages. That is why we cannot adopt the bill proposed by the opposition, as it generates unequal treatment of certain mutually comparable categories of the population, while also going to the proposed target group of beneficiaries for differences in their material situation. With targeted measures, the State should therefore facilitate the situation of all those in need and, with appropriate assistance, provide them with a minimum standard of living and examine fully all possibilities for improving the socio-economic situation of the most vulnerable groups whose situation is particularly threatened by the decline in the real value of income during the economic crisis. We therefore welcome the purpose of the Government, which in the light of the solution is thinking and preparing various proposals that will fully address this issue. The various solutions that we are considering, including universal core income, are indeed acceptable to the Group of Members, as they will cover the entire population of those who need help. At the same time, we reiterate that in the first phase, it is necessary to specify exactly the number of beneficiaries of the compensation, which, in addition to the categories already covered, includes employees in the employment relationship and recipients of the cash compensation for unemployment cases and social financial assistance. Because of everything that has been said in the Group of Members, we cannot really support the proposed proposal for a law, because it merely partially saves the socio-economic situation of a particular group of people. In order to avoid the inadequacy of the measure, which could also lead to an opaque social policy, we call on the government side to take appropriate measures, in cooperation with the social partners, as quickly as possible, aimed at preventing the social exclusion of citizens and citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u18	The Honorable President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The introduction of the Single Pensioner Act by the SDS is due to the failure to comply with its own agreements within the government coalition, which did not include the necessary law in the normative part of the government programme, and at the same time the signatory to the agreement on our part has not requested it. Thus, the opposition of the SDS took advantage of the poor Start of the job and introduced this law. In doing so, of course, it should be pointed out that the basic purpose of the SDS is reversed, as it appears to be a false concern for pensioners, and in reality it is the purchase of voters, as was the same act, otherwise unsuccessfully carried out just before the elections. But, ladies and gentlemen, in 2006, the proponents passed a law on the coordination of social transfers and, firstly, legally and without the consent of the affected, robbed pensioners and other even poorer recipients of social transfers already in 2007 for a total of as much as 34 million euros, only pensioners for more than 10 million euros, so that the month before the elections generously return the same amount only to the pensioners who were like voters and who are still the most interesting group. Our group's attempts to abolish the unjust bill have been opposed by the applicants three times, but now they are glistening kindness to pensioners who still have six rights frozen, and especially painfully increasing those more than 30,000 pensioners who have lost about 150 euros each year between a lower and a higher annual allowance. Because of the same law, there will be about 10,000 more in this year. Your model has been established in a way to take it quietly first, and then, with a large pump, you give the same amount of "caca" as kindness to those you took from them. Overturned, ladies and gentlemen! Other groups of socially disadvantaged people don't interest you, and you don't show sincere kindness to them because they are less interesting as voters, so many are so powerless that they can't vote at all, and that's why you can't see them. The same as last year's proposal has a weak point: there is no difference between the recipients of a single supplement when it comes to the poor and even the rich, although the latter are only a few thousand, but there are, and this supplement, of course, should not be paid as well as last year's. Well, that sort of thing doesn't bother the proponents. As they are not disturbed by the same allowance for different amounts of contributions paid and different working hours. The majority of the legislation will not be supported by the majority group because we agreed that a one-off allowance will be paid this year to all the most vulnerable citizens and not only to pensioners, thereby improving and correcting the original agreement on a one-off allowance only for pensioners, even though the latter would take account of their material situation. In doing so, it is not incontrovertible to stress the undeniable fact that the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia was not inclined not to last year or this year and not in the coalition agreement the current government position to such an addition. ZDUS advocates systemic solutions and not firefighters, especially not before the elections. The government subsequently invested in its normative part of the programme and supplemented it with the Single Supplement Act, which we will support, of course not mostly because it is weak and has a perverse purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word as a candidate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I owe it to you to explain something about these introductions. See, in the position of the Government as well as in the debates, it has now been said that the Government will take care of all these categories of people, including pensioners, with payment this year. This is the kind of opinion that some have also taken, because a month ago we proposed an amendment that we could have done so without doing so. Nor is the part that comes from the government's opinion, as well as from the debates, that it is an issue of inflation and that we have thus done 'copy-paste'. No, that's what the government says, it doesn't say in the bill. In the proposal for a law, we explained that we did so in 2008 because of inflation. Otherwise, I immediately checked what the speaker said in front of me. It is true that in the normative programme of the Government's work, which you have completed on 8.4.2009, it is stated that you will propose the Single Pension Supplement Act and that this Act will enter into force on 30.6.2009. Ten days later, you stated in the Government's opinion that you do not support such a law and that you will prepare a law that will apply to all these categories. So, within ten days, it's a completely different opinion. If I add to that that Dr. Križanič spoke yesterday about 500 euros of some kind of supplement or some kind of income for all citizens, even the richest, then these are the situations in which, I can say, the government does not have a compass. In fact, within ten days, it reports three different data. And if I follow your discussions, and if I follow what the Government says, to prepare such a law by 30.6.2009, then it is imperative that you allow this law today to be second-guessed in order to support it, in accordance with the analysis of the Ministry of Labour, also to amend it in the second reading and the law will be 30. 6. 2009 is perfectly normal, which is also your goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. As an opposition and as a coalition Member, I have the same view that in order to resolve the worst social pressures, it is always necessary to take into account systemic solutions and to consider what you give on the one hand, which on the other, may create a new inequality. The proposed law on the single pension supplement is already such a nature that it is not possible for it to talk about the balance and equal treatment of all those who, due to the circumstances in which we are in distress with life. Although the proposaler intervened in the history of the adoption of laws far back, I will only reach out in 2006 when we adopted the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia and then find that the law is unacceptable due to the unequal treatment of approximately 38 transfers, inadequate coordination and mixing of what are social transfers in legal and labour rights. But that's a long story. All I recall is that the Social Democrats opposed such a prepared law. We have also often pointed out an inadequately defined threshold of poverty, as it is necessary to know that this is only 60% of all monetary and non-monetary income, but we are aware that the threshold of poverty needs to be changed or determined whether the intervention of the State at a time when it intervenes with social transfers to help those who are below the poverty threshold is indeed well-defined in terms of the movement of living costs. And now for the third note. In 2007, inflationary movements began to show to the extent that the most vulnerable groups were affected. And when the Social Democrats warned us about this, we were given ridicule, ridicule and many visions. But from August, when I first took the initiative in 2007, until the adoption of the Single Pensioner Supplement Act, it was necessary to wait until June 2008. So much for the speed of Janša's government's action. In fact, in June 2008, inflation has already fallen because economic growth has not been the same as opposition Members are now often talking about letting it down to the level it is now. As if the Social Democrats were responsible for the economic crisis of the global dimension. Even then, at the time of the adoption of the law, 69 out of 71 Members present supported that law, which we have all found to be systemic and pre-election candy. But at the time, 32 million euros were needed. It would now take 64 million to propose an additional double. Certainly, experienced Members and Members of Parliament, as well as lawyers of the SDS Group, are aware that something could not have been written in the bill on budget rebalancing that did not have a legal basis. So much for those readings a little earlier. However, this introductory text also promises that contributions to health insurance will not be paid from a single pension allowance. I do not find such a specific provision in the articles of this proposed law. But it's probably written somewhere else, and I'm not saying it's not easy to write it somewhere else, but it's not in the articles. However, the articles of the Act state how this one-off allowance will affect the right to a protective allowance. As regards when it was said that inflation is not mentioned in this bill. Yes, we just have to read the explanation of the articles. The explanatory note to Article 1 states that the basic purpose of this law is to mitigate the effects of inflation, the third line in the explanatory note, if you are looking, Mr Proposer. It is still, for example, stated in Article 6 of the Explanatory Note that this payment of a single pension allowance is an exceptional measure aimed at improving the material and social situation of beneficiaries of low pensions and at endorsing the effects of inflation. Inflation is the root cause of the bill, and we are not talking about it anymore, but about a number of other effects of the economic situation facing, unfortunately, not only pensioners, but a number of groups of the population. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u23	Peace in the hall, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u24	That is why, of course, I support the proposal mentioned in the introductory explanation by Minister Svetlik, which would be directed at all those groups of the population who are actually experiencing difficult economic conditions and who unfortunately are also increasing the number of unemployed. [[...]] I see government action, 1st, 2nd and now the 3rd package of measures announced, especially as those who want to curb the increase in the number of unemployed. This was the first purpose of the measures so far. Of course, there is no way to forget that targeted measures must be found to support those groups most at risk. And these, once again, I stress, are unfortunately not only pensioners, but they are also employees, they are also families with multiple children, they are single parent families. If we look at what the figures on the guaranteed salary or what the figures on the minimum wage are, if we look at how employees' incomes are being reduced, then the idea of a legal text focusing on the wider population is justified. I think we should accept that the Government wants to have analyses for its marriage proposals, because the truth of love in 2008 has been passed a number of laws that have been passed so over the thumb. And I will support the Government whenever it comes before Members and Members with proposals, which will also have the appropriate analytical apparatus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Very briefly. 32 million of us haven't doubled to 64 million. That's what your government wrote down in the coalition agreement. But as for that inflation, given your experience, I ask you to make an amendment if you have good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will continue where the motioner has finished, with good intentions. I would like it to be truly good intentions for those who would lead the applicants into the introduction of this law. From what I hear, it's hard to believe that that's true. If the aim was to really improve the situation of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable, as has been heard here, it is too much to mention once again that the target group that would receive the supplement by this law is not the only one that is socially at risk, and in my opinion it is not the one that is most at risk. I also agree with the assessment of the demagogility and populism of such investment; my colleague Žnidaršič explained it in detail. I also have doubts as to whether the previous government has been as successful in ensuring some social equality and improving the situation of the most socially disadvantaged as we have heard today in the presentation of opinions. I am sure, as already mentioned here today, that certain categories of people such as young families are more at risk than any others. If I look back at what this government has done to make this social inequality smaller, I find that it has abolished housing relief. And young families are the ones who usually need new apartments because they haven't had them yet. She's introduced a very nice tax scale to the rich. Is it possible to increase the remuneration for maternity benefits, unemployment benefits? Did she change the criteria for scholarships so that more students could get these scholarships? No, the other way around. Did she just coordinate social transfers? It has already been said, in a way - quietly taken and loudly returned something, not everything. When I went to buy two packs of diapers a month ago, just like I do every 14 days, I have two children and we need a variety of large diapers, and a dose of artificial milk, the bill went somewhere around 45 euros. And the salesman herself said, "Oh, wait, wait, wait, I was wrong here." When she checked, she found out it wasn't like that. And I said, "No, ma'am, you didn't make a mistake, that's how much it costs." Of course someone could say, well, why don't you go back the old way, because you can also buy laundry diapers and wash. Then you will probably have to agree that even pensioners may not feel as bad if they do not have the money to warm up, because they can load wood on the fourth floor, just like they used to, and they burn their fireplaces. I hope, of course, that we have already overcome such thoughts, and we understand that at the time we live, some achievements, economics or, if you want, civilisations are reasonable in themselves, and that we must not make distinctions between different groups of our people, whether they are electors or not. I think the most endangered generation in Slovenia is the one that has not yet. And in the student demonstrations recently we could also see a banner that said, "Give me a bed so I can make a country of children." That's our biggest problem right now. The problem for generations is that if one is weakened, none of the next will come. And it's not the problem with which generation is larger, which is smaller, the problem is that they're solidarity. I think we need to think fundamentally about what intergenerational solidarity is, who is the one who has to be in solidarity with whom. In particular, I miss in this proposal the criterion of assets in these allocation criteria. Until we have transparently integrated the property ownership criteria into our social transfer system, this will by then be based more on populism than on some real justice. And if the government is running out of money to help the most socially disadvantaged, which I've told them are who they are, then I guess I could find it in the property tax, at least for the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and I don't know which apartment. I am convinced that real estate, in particular, should be, a tool and a tool of environmental and demographic policy, not a product that can be used to show us how to raise gross social product. Maybe that's how the numbers show it, actually, because most of our citizens and citizens have nothing. I admit that, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, the statements we hear about the single citizen income, on the other hand, on the thought of abolishing free kindergarten for another child, or on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand, or on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand, so that it may seem that the Government does not have a compass. I can't agree with that. I may agree with the assessment that the Minister of Finance does not have a compass. I hope the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs still has it. I look forward to and look forward to a bill that will soon be tabled and that will address this issue, as well as any other issue that has been left behind in today's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to think in such a way that I will not list what I can see and by which I can play by those who have proposed the bill, but it is my intention to think about how we can help those who are socially at risk as quickly as possible. That's why I'm sure my words won't sound nice to everyone, I'd say. But I'm used to black dots anyway, and I'm not gonna get too excited about that. I prefer swimming, although this is tiring, against the flow of the demagogic beach of words that I have already heard today, rather than relying on the flow to take me away and that I will ultimately be the winner, because enough voices will be gathered to make something that we have committed to do, to reject. That's probably how it's gonna happen. I regret, I do not yet say that I accuse my own government, my own government, which has written such an opinion that everyone can read today and under which I would never sign. For the time being, I regret not to say that the expectations of pensioners have been played by my Government, and I have also been played personally, who spoke twice in four eyes and negotiated with Prime Minister Borut Pahor on exactly such an addition, which was later written down, and we have publicly pictured what a great achievement this was when the coalition had not yet been concluded. For the time being, we regret and do not regret my Government's quietly withdrawing from the coalition agreement. What we are doing now is a departure from what all ministers and ministers knew when they decided to run for this government, and state secretaries, state secretaries, in short, all those who must have read the coalition agreement if they wanted to say, "Yes, I accept it as my obligation." The government, and even more so the coalition MPs and MPs, mentioned inflation. I must say that I have before me a document on which all the votes are recorded when we voted on almost the same law last year. I see that none of those who have spoken against this today are recorded in the outcome of the "against" vote. They were all in favor. There was only one Member and one Member of Parliament who squeezed the quorum last year, although I don't know why, but that's what happened. Now that we are very similar, if not nearly the same, the law is voted on, some, at least those with moral scruples, will probably experience anxiety. I don't know that kind of anxiety. I don't even know how to handle it. That is why I will do differently, like, I think, all coalition Members and Members. Inflation, mentioned in my view unnecessary, was not the main reason not last year and not this year for having a Dragan supplement or a one-time pension allowance, whatever we call it, or we will do so later when we accept it. What was the reason why we supported such a proposal last year, and I also support it this year, is a miserable pension, a miserable income that people cannot live with. And if we add 1% to 200 euros, it's nothing! If we add this to 2,000 euros of pension, that's a lot. And I have to say that when I proposed last year, before we talked about this, to manage the incomes of those most at risk in such a way that those with the highest pensions of this pension stood up or slowly rose up as those with the lowest, I experienced the plasma of critics, orals, mobiles and such, say, by e-mail and in this way detected, who truly thinks and who doesn't. Our fellow minister is today, and I think he has rightly realized that this is a bill which is well-intentioned, but which is not the best. I quite agree with that. But even what's not best doesn't get thrown away, it's being fixed. And we have this opportunity to do something to fix something. And we can fix it if we support today's ambition to continue this process. I will for this because we have written this in the coalition contract, because I know that this has been sincerely thought, because I have personally negotiated this, in order to improve in further procedures what needs to be improved, for the pensioners as well as for the others for whom we have already done something. I do not agree that there is discrimination, namely discrimination against everyone else and that we favour pensioners. But now that there's no time, I'll have to talk to you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Respected and respected! It is true that reasonable action must be taken to seek systemic solutions. But in itself, it is also a self-evident question of when these systemic solutions will really collapse on our bench. We have the first package, the second package, and the third package, which is also supposed to solve the social crisis, the general economic crisis in Slovenia, but we do not yet see the results of these strong packages. I am therefore interested in the fact that the problem is present today, including among pensioners, a major social problem when this systemic solution, the distinguished minister, will be put on the table. Can you tell me if the law is in preparation and will we give the pensioners something before 2010? As other countries give, for example, as I said earlier in the presentation of the Group's position, they are comparatively poorer than we are. You know, today's story reminds me of Partly's story of a pike and a doop. There was the most frequently said phrase: "Franciers not today, tomorrow, tomorrow, France." Remember this beautiful humuristic also TV shows. And it will be difficult for you to tell a farmer who, as already said, has 200 euros in pension to prepare a systemic solution, to wait a little longer, because it will be better, we will prepare. Dear Minister, tell me when this will be, how much help this will be, to what extent it will be allocated, to whom and to whom. I agree that we can also talk about diapers, we can also talk about milk, how expensive it is, we can also talk about students not having satisfactory status and well-saved status, we can also talk about the fact that workers working in full-time factories do not get an envelope that allows them to have a normal life and a normal life. This is also your area, Minister-respected, we can also talk about the fact that the state prefers to shut down electricity in the state-owned Elektro economy, rather than the meat being distributed among the people, and for the battles of a small unpaid account, we can also talk about the Red Cross asking for solidarity, while the President of the Social Democrats does not want to return the stolen money to the Red Cross, even though he has a legal judgment. We can talk about a lot of things here today in this marriage, but it's not my intention to owe and talk about it. I am particularly interested if this law - which will not be adopted today - is when the government will propose a system law and how much and how much will we help the socially disadvantaged. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed an extraordinary meeting on poverty in the previous term, and we have spoken here, we have spoken, we have spoken, one of us has been smarter than the other, for this population, which today is two hundred and fifty thousand and is on the brink of poverty, and we have forgotten the moment the meeting is over. Taiwan’s stories, the great success of individuals, and so on, were at stake, and no one in this country is listening anyway. But the time has come when you will also have to deal with such stories, because otherwise the law of the street will happen. We will be on the side of those who will complain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have a feeling that the crisis as it is will probably have to be helped more than once by the target groups. Today, this target group is under discussion. Because the crisis has done its job, you can say yes or no, this problem would soon come on the day. It should be borne in mind that Slovenian people, especially low-income people, are constantly living in a minus, up to a maximum, once these limits have to be closed and then there are problems here. And that's the fact that this is how it happens in our country and that it's very much living on hope. Whether it was a crisis or not, I'd have sensed that problem sooner or later. As for young families, pensioners and their threat, I can say that in Slovenia this co-existence of young - old, old - young is at a high level. If I were not at this level, these pressures would be even greater. I can say that in the saviour environment after 1991, when the economy collapsed, but there were many pensioners who worked in mines that had a solid pension, be sure that these pensions were then a solution to social distress in Zasav with young people. I'm talking about the co-existence of young - old or young and retired. It is also true that the crisis is a time to change the system, a fundamental change in the system, not only the system as it is, but in general. We can see that there are problems all over the world and in Europe. And here's where we're gonna have to find one solution. I don't know what, but I prefer to discuss it in a way that, if I'm criticizing something, I'll give you a solution. But I can't see her right now. And we'll all have to find her one way together. That is why I also argue that in Slovenia we are in great advantage because of the co-existence between older and young generations precisely from this historical point of view. We know well what cohabitation was like on farmers between young and old masters. When the young master had to take care of, or for the most part, the nursing home. Here I see a way in which in Slovenia, otherwise, still works. And that's what relieves us of these social hardships. We'll also have to talk about where we're going to invest. Most likely, in times of crisis as it is necessary to invest in people, it will be necessary to invest in this survival, to invest in young families having free kindergartens, really free schooling, and perhaps even waiting for infrastructure, to wait for this time until it changes, and most likely it will take some time. Look, when we're talking about a single, universal income, I have to say that I've been monitoring Dr. Janez Drnovšek's website a while ago. And there was a lot of debate about this universal income, and there was a lot of dilemma. However, I am leaning in this direction that this will have to be introduced mainly because of social distress. Now again, in what way we're going to come to this, I don't have a solution. But that's where I saw there were theories that said it could be arranged. Let me also say that years ago, when the pension system changed, the Slovenian People's Party and Dr Berta Jereb invested a great deal of energy in reaching state pensions. And even then it was a big dilemma, either to introduce state pensions or to have people on social transfers. But you know what it's like in Slovenian mentality - we don't want to live on social transfer, but we like to live on if we have the feeling that we get some income and then we manage and work with this income. So if it is now targeted, it will probably be something else targeted, but it will really have to go in the direction when we can systematically arrange it and give our people a decent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Laszlo Gönch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The introduction of the Single Pension Supplement Bill undoubtedly points to the extremely difficult situation of the older population or pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia who receive the lowest pension or assistance. There is no doubt that the minimum income for pensioners is not even enough to meet the minimum conditions that a person would need for a decent life. If I mention only the recipients of some of the miserablely low farm pensions, and they are in the area where I come from, a lot, the situation is unfortunately quite humiliating. I also agree with the statement or the proposal in the text to explain that a single addition to some extent would only improve the situation of those who would receive such assistance. At the same time, it is also justified to refer to the Government in its opinion that, contrary to a similar law adopted in 2008, the current proposal on intention and systemic solutions does not have the nature of the intervention law. Unfortunately, today’s times of crisis in addition to the pensioners have had an extremely negative impact on others, especially the most vulnerable groups of the population, and especially the unemployed, persons who are more from day to day. All of these are forced to receive compensation or social assistance because of the situation. We are probably all of the same opinions that the State must provide at least minimum support for the survival of all the population, as the Constitution of a defined general social aspect cannot otherwise be applied. This general concern does not reduce the duty to the basic concern of the country to the older population, therefore, primarily to the pensioners. The aspect also mentioned by the bill's proponents in the explanatory statement concerning the sustainability of pension funding or the system, due to the sudden ageing of the population, is very important. Predicting a few decades ago that this problem would cause major problems in the middle of the 21st century has long been unstoppable, and it has been necessary to approach this problem to some extent. However, we also know that there will still be great additional efforts in this area, although long-term solutions are unlikely to be announced today. The social situation of pensioners is also being addressed in similar dimensions in other countries. In view of Hungary's comparison proposals, I mention only for illustration that the new Hungarian Prime Minister in his programme for the rehabilitation of the catastrophic Hungarian economic and financial situation also proposes the abolition of the so-called 13 pensions, which could be comparable to the one-off aid provided by the drafters. Otherwise, comparison with the situation in Hungary cannot be the most appropriate, as the current general financial-economic and socio-social situation, unfortunately, is catastrophic. Some professional institutions in Prekmurje, according to the recipient structure and the level of pensions there, assume that the payment of a single pension allowance would be beneficial, so that it could partially alleviate the material hardship of low-retirement pensioners. However, I also have different opinions based on the integrity of the systemic solution to this issue, to which I am also leaning in a given situation, and a compromise between the proposed and expected situation should not be impossible for me at least. In this aspect of the professional institutions, the Government must certainly be considerate. I hope that already in the latest package of measures to mitigate the economic and financial crisis, the integrity of addressing the problem of social assistance to all segments of the population is given the necessary attention and appropriate content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. President, Minister. Caring for the category of pensioners with the lowest pensions is a care for one category. I agree with those who say that this is not a comprehensive solution. However, I also agree, of course, with those who say that in the second reading it is possible to upgrade the law. The minister also let it know when he presented himself. But it's a group of ccas. 250 thousand people and 250,000 people still have to be particularly concerned if they are at the threshold of poverty. And that's actually what they are. It wouldn't have happened otherwise. As has already been said, all Members and Members of the previous call voted in favour of a single aid year last year. Today, coalitions are predicting that they will vote against it. I find it completely incorrect and contrary to what you promised before the elections that you seem to have received, I'm sorry. With regard to the debate on how much money there is and whether it is comprehensive or not a comprehensive solution, I would say so. 54 million, about 54 million. That it's not complete, that it's too late. I agree with you that this can be implemented by amendments in other readings and that this law enters into force in June 2006. However, these 54 million are actually only 54 Kramers. This 54 million is only half of Bavčar at the Ljubljana Bank, where he received 122 million loans without insurance. How do you get to the resources? Before that, something had already been said. Look, it's about time, and lately it would have been for those shamelessly high pensions, not all of them, not to throw everything in the same basket, but for those quasi fighters who are guilty of thousands of beatings after the war after Slovenia, to just delete. It's a source, Minister. Minister, second source, in normal democratic countries, criminals who do not pay their obligations, taxes that steal without guarantees and so on, property is seized, criminals are imprisoned. It's a second source. Third source, formerly a colleague of mine, I think Roger, even said: real estate taxation. Absolutely, those who also robbed such tycoons, three, four, six, ten dwellings at about three or four percent, then bought according to the market price they are selling today. It's a third source. A fourth source, giving those who want to work the opportunity to work in public works. This was one form when unemployment was great, one of the good forms. And I have to say that Dr. Dimovski, the then Minister of Labour, was a great driver. From these public works, workers came to regular jobs where entrepreneurs, businesses saw them as some who, not all of them, of course not, but that was good. Today, when we have been dealing with this issue for 6 hours, I think it is correct, but given the problem in this country, it seems completely unacceptable to me and, on the other hand, the coalition does not allow the President of the Government to speak about some measures for at least an hour or two. As far as Dessus is concerned. That's what I'll tell you, fellows. In 2002, you were with the government when you changed the reconciliation of pensions with salaries, and you "rebellious". In 2005, you were back in the coalition, and you were "disputed" and you weren't satisfied. In 2009, you're back in the coalition and "rebellish" [[End warning sign]] And you're not satisfied. You're always predicting just some exits and a hat in your hand to leave. Neither then nor in 2005 nor today will you leave the coalition, because it is simply beautiful on your chairs. And when he comes [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! I will begin my address with a very famous Slovenian proverb: "Whoever quickly does, twice does." And I think that our pensioners would definitely need this help already in January, and so you promised in the coalition agreement, respected colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, as well as the government. Well, it's obviously nothing. All those promises you made during the election campaign or before the elections, you are now forgetting and doing exactly the opposite of what you promised at the time. The priority you've set now has never been mentioned. Now, your priorities are to amend legislation, issue decisions and lay the groundwork for compensation to the deleted. You have passed the law that widows of military officers who have never contributed to the Slovenian treasury will now receive higher pensions. But for our pensioners, who have worked in Slovenia for 35 years or more, now do not allow the most vulnerable to have the necessary amount of EUR 300. I think every word here is superfluous. That's why, of course, there are so few of you in the hall, instead of listening, you're probably hiding in your offices now, so the public can't see you. The government says it will draw up a system law, a system solution. I'd like to see him myself. But despite the fact that there will be a system law, I will support it, too. And it would be right for this law, which we are now proposing, to be adopted. This does not prevent the system law from being adopted further. Let's do it! You say that this law discriminates against others, the population of other people. I say no. For I am sure, and you all know this, that a great number of pensioners, or a great majority of them, with their humble pensions which they receive, must also help to support their children and grandchildren. Those who receive 300 euros in pensions also use their modesty to devote a variety of euros to their children and, of course, to their grandchildren. I know a lot of pensioners and pensioners myself. This means that if they were paid, they would be poured out or helped to help other groups, including children. Whether the system solutions that the Government is preparing are what is now being read to stop free kindergartens, to stop the student diet, instead of helping even more, these withdrawals are being announced. I don't think that's the right solution. It has been heard here today in the debate, including by DeSUS, that pensioners oppose such a law. I would like to hear one who receives 300, 400 or 500 euros to oppose this. I'd like to hear that. Bring him in, and I'll be happy to ask him why he's opposed. I don't think it's like that. However, I believe that those who may also be pensioners who have very high pensions that they may have received, not with their past work, but at the expense of certain privileges or are politically motivated to oppose such solutions that we are now proposing to them. That's why I certainly don't understand it and I don't believe it. Here today you have said many times that we have amended such legislation in 2008 as if it were pre-election candy. Every law we adopted at the time, and in the previous term, we can say that, and I think that they also recognized the electorate and the electorate, most of the laws were really for the benefit of citizens and citizens, the economy. There are also reasons why we had such a good economic situation. If, today or at that time, we were to be aware of and adopt laws or solutions that would also respond to the financial crisis that arose outside the borders of Slovenia and also the economic situation, this crisis would be smaller today. But as I mentioned, every marriage we adopted at the time, you said they were pre-election mints. But look, we're not before the elections today. We still have three and a half years ahead of us, if, of course, there will be no early elections, as you promise. I'll be the first to support this. I myself will gladly support this law and hope that even in the coalition you will give support at least to the extent that this law is adopted today as suitable for further consideration. And if there are any shortcomings that could be complemented, suggest that the procedure is open. Any article can still change. But of course it's not. You're actually moving in here, and you don't want to support it. I believe that it would also be much easier for the Minister to adopt this law, because it would also give him more opportunities and, of course, also time to resolve the systemic solutions that will, of course, need to be found. Let us therefore help, and let us also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The fact is, we are living in a time when many people are not easy. Pensions are too small, some do not even allow for basic survival. The wages of workers and workers are too small and also do not allow for basic survival in modern times. And more. Unemployment is such a big problem today that we need to systematically solve it, facing many people, including young people, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've come up with a situation where all the structures of the population are suffering. They suffer young people, they suffer from working conditions, and they suffer from pensioners. And it is our responsibility, all of us sitting here in the National Assembly, to take care of everything, especially those who are most socially at risk. We probably all agree here that we don't want to give anyone more, less to someone else, that we don't want to save for some sooner or later. We all want to help people in distress and it is right to support the systemic solution of those most at risk. I believe in the true purpose, and, of course, I will also insist that we come to such a solution as soon as possible, because the interest of both our Members and Members of the National Assembly and the Government must be that in these times we must save that group of people who are most affected today, as far as the financial economic crisis is concerned. This must be the commitment of this National Assembly and the government's commitment to a solution to the National Assembly as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this time we are more than ever very, very limited with financial resources and money. We must therefore make financial spending as prudent as possible. When we solve people's financial difficulties, it's best that we solve the situation in an integrated manner. And I agree that today grandparents have to take care of their children and their grandchildren. But this is precisely because the country has done nothing in the past to solve the problems of young people and those who are active. And so in these times it is imperative that, if not sooner, at least now we consider how we will solve the whole generation's problem. We have a generation of young people, we are not talking about a generation of small groups of people, a generation of young people in groups between the ages of 15 and 30, we are talking about students, students, employees, unemployed, disabled people, all those involved in processes when entering the labour market. How will we solve the traineeship system in Slovenia when a large number of young people work for free with a high education? I believe you're pointing the finger at Mr. Secretary now. Likewise, no one other than the Ministry of Labour must solve this, but why we did not do it in the previous term. No, it didn't work out. The internship didn't work out. Many young people today work for free, many young people who enter the labour market, working for 70% of their salary. Take a look at the interns in the public administration, take a look at the interns in the economy. This is the concern of the entire organisation of all generations in Slovenia. And this is intergenerational solidarity, which must also be taken into account. Do you know, my dears, that Slovenia has 927 empty apartments that are in a catastrophic state and that on the other hand we have a housing problem for young people? No one in the previous term even thought of trying to give these apartments to young people. No one thought about solving the housing problem of young people. I believe that pensioners are socially endangered. But not just pensioners. Various social groups are at risk and it is our responsibility to take care of everything. When we talk about access to education, we now know that a student has to work to be educated in a city far from his city to be able to access a study. In the previous term, we even had ideas to introduce tuition. Let us discuss whether it is our intention to really solve those who have problems, pensioners, young people, workers, and workers who lose their jobs. Whether we wish to impose some ad doc actions on the coalition, aware that financial spending is very limited in this mandate, and that if we want to allocate funds roughly evenly among people, we need to systematically address those who are most socially at risk. I can't wait for this marriage to come to the National Assembly. I'll do anything to make this happen as soon as possible. I hope that at that time we will be able to say with great joy that in some way we are saving all those who are socially at risk, including pensioners and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Levanic. All that you have listed, I will help you to support these laws that will regulate this, whether they will be submitted by the Government, or whether you will submit them. I'll be the cosigner of everything you've listed. I'd be happy to sign this for you. Just get the law ready. I re-invested two of them yesterday, so it'll be okay for you to file one. I'd be happy to be your cosigner. But today we're talking about a one-time pension allowance. We're also talking about paying it off first. Why we are, let me stress once again that I agree with the Government and with you that it is necessary to resolve all layers of the population with the lowest income. The law that we are considering today would not have happened if we had not written it down in the coalition agreement, forgotten it within a month, failed to answer the question, and if we had not simply put that question aside. Only after this law was in procedure did the Government in some way decide and propose this law, which should enter into force 30. 6. Watch out, we are talking today about the Government already being prepared in the normative part of the Government’s programme, supplemented by 8. 4. This law is prepared to apply 30. 6. 17 or 10 days later, we say here: let's give it to all. I agree to give it to everyone. So I expect this law to be confirmed and amended today as we agree. And it'll be 30. 6th validity. That's the government's plan. That's what the government wants. Besides, there's something else to say. I remember last year, in the government room, I was monitoring the discussions when it came to pre-election candy, and I don't know what else. But look, I've got a copy 20.13 in front of me tonight, 26. 6. And look at the fragment! P as against, he's not here. And since I do not have a P against here on this list, of course I expect, especially by those who are sitting here today or not, I will count some: Mr Bevk, Mr Germić, Mr Han, Mr Juri, Mr Klavora, Mr Kontič, I am pleased, Mr Kumer, who has just given up his word, Mrs Lavtizareva, Pečanova, Posedel, Poturata, Mr Potrč, Mr Sayovic, Trofenik, Weber and Žnidaršič. You voted yes. Vote in favour today as well. There will be no consequences. The only result will be that we may be able to amend and settle the matter as you wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Sorry, you've already discussed this, so please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you for finally letting me replicate. Mr Vinko Gorenak, I wanted to tell you earlier that look at the magnetogram for last year's adoption of the law, where Mrs Jeraj, on behalf of the SDS Group, said that the funds needed to enforce that law are 32 wholes and several more million. You have €64 million for this bill. This is a double, which is perfectly logical, because you also doubled the amount of disposable income. Previously, he was 150th highest in the previous marriage, now he's 300. But the reason I came to the replica is because you can manipulate our voices now. That's what I said. 71 reported being present, 69 supported by the law because we were aware of the need to help people in distress. I supported the law because I warned myself about the inflation that hit people who were particularly at risk with low pensions. But today, with the same argument, you cannot ask me to vote the same way because the Government, in which my client is the largest party, has said that it is preparing a law that will also target those groups of the population - at risk and not just the pensioners, which we have said several times that it is more appropriate. Be a little more considerate when you put pressure on us and when you knock on our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, I will indeed be extremely pleased with your support for the systematic resolution or management of the situation of socially disadvantaged, that is, young people, active workers and, of course, pensioners. I would be even more pleased if you spoke with the same energy and desire to regulate this area when you had the opportunity. But all right, we've come to a new era and I believe that your purpose is genuine and that when the system solution is available in the National Assembly, you will also allow it to be adopted. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, it is not a derogation from what has been written. It is also an extension to other socially disadvantaged groups. Nobody's saying the pensioners' situation won't improve. This is also very inappropriate when you say that the Ministry does nothing in this area and that DeSUS is essentially holding figs in its pocket. All coalition partners, together with the Ministry of Labour, are working to ensure that this systemic solution is in Parliament as soon as possible. If she's not, then of course you can be very critical and then I'll help you. And no one is voting against a social group today. All of us today find that we are at different times, that today we need to expand the problem and that we all want to see that, given that all groups of people today feel the consequences of the economic crisis, we want to solve this area in an integrated manner. I wish that when this solution comes, we would really do something positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Dr. Gorenak, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Look, I never said the Ministry of Labour didn't do anything. You haven't heard such a statement from my mouth. I will even say, right after the appointment of this government, the journalists as the opposition MP asked me if I thought anyone was good in this government. I mentioned the name of Dr. Svetlik and the Secretary of Defense. I have such a respectful and good opinion on the Minister and also on his work. I never said that. However, I said that the Minister did not answer the question in February or January. Of course, he was unable to respond because the Government had not adopted this law in its normative programme. As for 34 million and 64 million, you've doubled. We haven't doubled any amounts, nothing. But EUR 6 million was written by the government coalition in its government normative programme, which is what the coalition agreement wrote down. Well, we didn't double-cross anything, but we took back what the government wrote. I also agree with you, once again I stress the need to regulate, so I also welcomed the Government's opinion that all social groups should be organised. However, let us settle this matter by allowing the marriage to be read in a different way. Let us amend it, complement it, and at the same time add what the Minister is preparing or preparing, and this will solve the problem. The pensioners no longer believe because they were promised in January, but nothing happened. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u51	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that again. So, from all the discussions today, we can draw a common denominator that we all agree that the situation is critical. The situation is even critical for those living below the poverty line. We are also all talking about the need to do something that needs to be done immediately, now. We as the Slovenian Democratic Party have proposed a specific law. A specific law that we expect support for. But I can't believe that now after all these discussions that have been in recent times, you won't support this law for a reason because it doesn't cover all the populations that live below the poverty line. Look, we have our first reading today, we actually have a general debate today. If we confirm this law today, it goes to the committee, it can be amended on the committee at all points. And exactly what the government has already written, are those groups that would also belong to them. According to the Government, these are pensioners who are unemployed who receive cash benefits in the case of unemployment or financial social assistance, then they are working residents with minimum wages or insufficient remuneration, who because of their health status are unable to obtain sufficient means of survival. Look, it's all clear. You know exactly what those categories of people are. Let us adopt the law today, on the committee's amendment, confirm the matter and actually help the government to make this matter happen, because I do not really believe that the government will come with such a concrete action. Why not? Because once the pensioners have been played - we are talking about January - we are talking today and we are talking: it will or will not be. We do it, we do it, we are Members of Parliament, we decide on the laws, we decide on the resources in the budget - it is not the Government. The government is just the one who executes. I would expect that the coalition MPs will have an attitude, your spine, not the soldiers, very loyal soldiers of the Government, who unfortunately did not play their part at this moment, as citizens and citizens expected. I also count pensioners and pensioners in this group. See if I can get back to the pensioners. Do you know how much it means to one pensioner who has a pension of 200, 300, 400 euros, if he gets another 300, 200 or 150 euros? That means another extra pension. Tell me one that would be against this - one pensioner. Now, if a pensioner's association or a pensioner's association has said that this is not a suitable measure, I don't know if they really advocate the position of pensioners and pensioners. I have a feeling at that conference that they've agreed a little bit on how they're going to run things, so the government won't turn out to be too incompetent. Well, there were a lot of readings about last year's pre-election candy. The pensioners were happy about that. That's what they told me. But remember your pre-election promises. Before the elections you promised higher pensions, you promised higher wages. And what are we witnessing today? I open up in coalition, then we witness an increase in unemployment, a rise in pensions, a rise in wages is neither the spirit nor the hearing, but because of this you have come into power; for this reason they have given you voters and voters a voice because of pre-election promises! Look, I'm not saying any more about economic growth. Economic growth was less than one year ago plus 6, today is minus 4. So we're down 10%, etc. There's something else I'd like to say about taking care of the pensioners. One week ago, I personally, clearly with the signatures of my colleagues and colleagues, tabled an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to amend the amount of farm pensions that Mr Friend had already mentioned. We are in fact in agreement with this and action has to be taken and action must be taken, so we have already put the amendment of the law into the procedure and we will discuss this in the next month or at the next meeting. Imagine a farmer, a man who's been working his whole life with 200 euros in pension. You know, I would understand that all farmers have the same pension, but some farmers are privileged, these are farmers "fighters" so called, and they have the lowest pension, and ordinary farmers only half and I say why not equalize it. We're not taking anything from anyone, we're not taking anything from anyone, but we're going to equalize the pension of farmers to all the same, so to the level of the lowest full pension. We Members and Members have everything in our hands, and I call on him once again, particularly Members and Members of the Coalition - except for Mr Rezman, who has been critical and spoke as I actually think - to support this proposal, to take the first step, in the second step, to improve this law all together in order to really cover all the categories and then to accept it and impose it on the Government to realize it. Now I'm going to say what I heard on the radio today when I drove to Ljubljana. The Minister merely issued a radio statement that the Ministry of Labour, the family, has sufficient resources for all necessary social transfers. If that is true, then - I believe that there will be no problem - no problem to add to all these structures of the population that I spoke about and are also recorded in the Government's position, and we accept the matter and we will have no problem. But if we wait for the government, I think we'll wait a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u53	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have heard quite a few discussions trying to explain the difference between 2008 and 2009. There's a really big difference. All those who are very concerned about the rise of coalition Members and talk about our spines, which should remain flattened, are at least in this favour that we are talking about wanting to keep our backs straight. When I listened to your debates in the previous term, and even more closely monitored your vote, which was in full agreement with the decisions and proposals of the Government, I could say that I am satisfied that you are once again getting on your feet and trying to straighten your spines. If you look at the vote of the members of the coalition parties, you will find that there is also many disagreements, disagreements between the proposals of the Government and the votes of Members and Members. Of course, you're not talking about the rebelry of Members at the time, but you're talking about the coalition confusion. Just like you're talking about our pre-election promises. The Social Democrats did not promise what you are telling us, but we have written this in a coalition treaty. So it's not an electoral and electoral fraud, which you want us to put in our backpack, but it's actually a coalition agreement, which is usually, and you have to admit to us, a decision after the elections when the coalition is formed and when coalition partners want to include their programme in a coalition contract, an agreement, whatever we call it, the best that their program can do. You're talking about that last year, not long ago, 6% of economic growth. Now it's negative 4, the difference is 10, it's true. You are also ignoring the impact of other economic and financial circumstances on events in Slovenia. The President of the Government made it very clear when he took over the mandate that the past government is not to blame for the emerging crisis because the environmental impact is too great. Well, when you talk so much about economic growth, it's possible to think about something else: what kind of economic growth would it be if it weren't for Janez Janša's government. It may be difficult to see now that she is taller than she was, and it is difficult to determine what would be happening today if we had the government of John Janša today. However, it would certainly be much easier for all of us if the government managed the state and public finances in the previous term, not as it is. Here, too, are very demagogic occurrences, as we say, tax property on those who have stolen in the past. It's not about taxation! If you know that someone has stolen something, it is another way to return what has been stolen, to confiscate the property that comes from the theft and theft or whatever you call it, to punish it. It's not about taxation. And we could all agree on that. And when we speak, and in the past there has been a lot of talk about taxes, about decommissioning; of course, it would be best to live in a country where there are no taxes, of course that also means, on the other hand, that there is no social problem, there would be nothing else that is fueled by tax sources on the income side. That's why we need to weigh, achieve some balance. Let me say here that the proposals announced by the Minister in the current government, who is doing his job well, are not doubtful of his good intentions, so he has my full support, so I also listen to his explanations why this bill is not good and why a system-wide solution is needed. True, many of you have talked about it, not only are pensioners who in these times are hard to live, are also unemployed, but there are also people who work all month, and they find it hard to live with the wages they get. So, you have to take care of it, and that's why this approach that the Government has predicted is much closer to what you're trying to implement today. In doing so, it is very interesting to hear how well you know the legislative process, but at the next point we will find that you can also exercise your will and prevent any proceedings in the National Assembly, even though you do not have procedural, procedural, business bases. I want the state of affairs and the state of the country when such interventions are not necessary and people will spend a month on the basis of their work, based on their knowledge, on a newly created value. And when we voted last year on the single assistance to the pensioners, of course, I voted in favour, and I thank all those who repeatedly list my name in the various votes. I am behind this vote, even if we have indicated that this is the division of sweets, pre-election promises and prizes, I have participated in this division; but at a time when respected colleagues and colleagues, when high economic growth, when milk and honey dipped in Slovenia, we have also acknowledged that we are living among ourselves the Lord of Jerovsk, which is calm. [[...]] You'll be able to discuss it. I think you're on the list. For now I have the word myself and you will have to endure and listen also to what you do not agree with So, at the time, we have acknowledged that there are people among us who need help. [[...]] We talked about pensioners and the government, and then you decided to help these people in spite of all the well-being. And this is also a commitment to the current coalition, of course to a slightly broader extent than you are proposing at this point in time with the law you are making. Given your good intentions, help the government, which you have mentioned in recent months. Many times, this assistance to the Government in proposing laws is such as to draw a pedestrian crossing on the highway. It's a similar story to yours. I am sure that in the future we will have to find better ways and help to get out of this situation, with some honesty and good intentions. This is probably a solution and this is also a call for cooperation to find a way out of this difficult situation. But it's probably not as much of a crisis and as black as some of you want to show it. Of course, the purpose at this point of proposing a one-off refund or a one-off intervention is not to be very helpful and to solve matters. It's about wanting to stick a wedge in the coalition if I can use that term. In your debates, you focus your views on DeSUS, what DeSUS will do, but when you kill the wedge, you have to be careful, the hammer can fall on your fingers - when you least expect it. And there's something else I've heard in this debate. You talk about socialism and you talk about pensions, everything in the same breath, in the same word. Pension is a right arising from the payment of contributions in the past. Citizens and citizens have paid contributions for this pension, which is now reflected also in its size, i.e. in the amount of the pension we accept. Those who have a low pension are entitled to social assistance, social action by the Government or anyone responsible for it, but this is not the same story. Retirement is not a social category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u55	Mr. Robert Croat, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Look, Mr Kontic has told me that I have been talking about pre-election promises regarding a one-time pension allowance. But the fact that it is enshrined in the coalition contract and in the coalition contract is usually entered into the client programmes that are in the coalition. So I wasn't specifically talking about you. I was talking about coalition. But as for the economic growth that Mr Kontic has been talking about, that now is a different time, and the other situation, let me make one comparison. Last year, when it was the highest economic growth, you said when you were in the opposition that this was due to the favourable conditions in the world. But then we were the first ones in the euro area. So we had the highest economic growth in the euro area. Today, you are saying today that the crisis is a result of the world's bad conditions. But do you know where the rabbit goes? Where we are today, Slovenia, is the last place in the same area where we were first last year. That's it. Set up a mirror and look at yourself, and you'll see what you've been saying and how things are today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before I give you my word, I would like to say, Mr. Croat has received a replica. Not because he was appointed, he was not appointed, but I thought he wanted to explain his debate, which he felt was not properly understood. This is permitted by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u58	The practice in the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, of course, dictate certain rules and certain conditions that must be met for someone to receive a replica. It is not the opinion of the chairman or the co-worker sitting next to him whether someone before the debater understood or did not understand. For the first time, most of the debate was not about a colleague who referred to me at all. Most of the debate was about the debates that were before that, and they were talking about what I was responding to. The proper procedure would, of course, be to get a replica when someone discusses it, the Member concerned does not understand it or wants to explain the misunderstanding. And in this case, there's something else that needs to be mentioned. When she was a colleague of Majda Potrat, not for the first time mentioned in the debate, we found that she did not meet the business opportunities for the replica because she had not discussed it before. And this has become a practice in the National Assembly. However, we give someone the word “replication ” just because someone finds out that he may not have been well understood or that the one who discussed it did not understand his previous discussion. If this is unprecedented, of course, what has happened today is no longer limited in the National Assembly and can be replicated by everyone, whenever and whatever they want. Jerovšek, thank you so much for the applause!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you so much for teaching me. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Excuse me? When you speak, I ask you to press so that it can be heard. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u60	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u61	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. When this debate is under way, I would suggest that all those who gloat or address certain calls be made to a group of Members who do not belong to you to allow the Group of Members to express their views on their own. You are the representatives of the Group of Members on the other hand. I would suggest that you speak first of all about your views. As far as a specific law is concerned, I can say that we are consistent. We proposed such a law in the previous term when we were a government party [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u63	Mr. Tanko, I'd like to hear a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u64	And we're proposing it now. [[...]] Because of the fact that the largest government party, which is the main institution and contractor of the coalition agreement, has entered into this coalition agreement and does not implement it, not by hand or by content. As regards the scope of the debate and the criticism that our Members are talking about everything possible. You know, this law has much more to do with what Mr Hrvat said when he was convicted and accused of mixing things than what Mr Kontic said in his debate. This law has nothing to do with the road crossing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u65	Mr. Tanko [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u66	And I suggest that even those gentlemen who accuse us of talking about everything that we can about, stick to the content of the bill and do not talk about a single pension allowance on highway crossings. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The next one has the word, Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Honourable Minister. The bill on the single pension allowance is a law I support. However, I think that aid must be provided immediately to all those on the verge of survival in order to provide them with at least a minimum standard of living. Intergenerational solidarity is growing, as the fate of low-income pensioners is also felt by workers on minimum wages. All those who have recently lost their jobs, people with disabilities who are hardly talked about, as well as students who have lived through their student work until recently. As we can see, social justice must be for everyone, because the crisis has gone far beyond the rich and everyone else is sharing fate equally. And the crisis is getting worse. We have to worry about that. Blinding doesn't save poverty. The resolution of the crisis is addressed not only through one-off allowances and social transfers, but through new jobs. This is the only way to ensure prosperity for all those now waiting for the better tomorrow and for the mercy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u70	Have a go at it. I was already at the point of not discussing it. In fact, I did not feel any zeal for defending the government, but the opposition encouraged me to discuss it. In fact, a group of people are very popular each week, defending how difficult they are, how difficult they are to live. And they're right. Both farmers and pensioners, students, students, the economy, the unemployed - it's hard for everyone. But let's look into the bag, into the bag, very deeply you have to look inside and let that content be divided into everything, not half of it into 16 halves.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u71	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues. I support the Single Pension Allowance Act myself. I would also like to support the government's announcement to help all the socially disadvantaged. But this government announcement, this promise, it still has a lot of cha-chas. The promises of the Government of Borut Pahor are coming down on their own. Most recent is this promise that banks with loans will not help takeovers. We can see that the matter is quite different. There is no promise that pensioners will receive a thousand euros in pensions, which was promised before the elections by one of the coalition parties. Also far from being fulfilled is the promise that workers will receive thousands of euros in wages. Perhaps in these thousands of euros, the expectation of inflation that we have experienced in the former Yugoslavia, for which many are deeply sorry, is built. Therefore, in this case, we must strictly distinguish between promises, pre-election promises and lies. In the case of thousands of euros of wages, it is not a failure to fulfil pre-election promises, but an eccentric lie. Conscientiously speaking the untruth is a lie. And that's what this is about. And in my opinion today's coalition of lies has brought this culture of lies to some climax - Mrs. Potrata, you will be on your turn later. We recently listened here to Mrs Katarina Kresal's very strong political essay. And the writers of this essay also touched or quoted German philosopher Hannah Arendt. Of course, in these quotations they have deliberately omitted all her references or reflections from her political record of truth and lies in politics. Apparently, this part of this German philosophies for the coalition is too painful. Or on the other hand, this coalition does not want to support this law because of the general premonition that poverty is no longer in Slovenia. The media after September 21st really don't write about poverty anymore, although unemployment has increased by some 10,000 at the time. Unemployment and social assistance are, of course, the attributes of poverty. Unfortunately, however, the Government is punishing a particular population in the Republic of Slovenia in its own way and, to the very least, abolishing certain institutions, such as notaries. The closure of Notary cities reduces accessibility and competition and re-creates in Slovenia by notary tycoons. Korosci, including those who are socially weak, including those who are destined for this law, today must drive more than 50 kilometers to the first notary, for Minister Zalar has abolished the city of Notar in Ravna. Let me mention that he has not yet answered the question raised by the Member of Parliament, but he promised to return to the Notary City of Ravni yesterday. He says he'll be back in the fall and that people will have a closer path to the Notary. But of course, this is about some confusion, a different course of action in the same matter, some indecisiveness, the fear of the government, when it makes one move, and in fourteen days it withdraws it. Or the characteristic we know from this National Assembly that the same matter is voted twice. Of course, this is not uprightness, as some here today have so vehemently stated. I think that, my colleague and colleague, the Slovenian public has long missed out on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I was wondering whether I should discuss it or not. But I decided I should say something. In fact, if I had heard of some rivers before, I would have said in the parable that "there is no one time" or that "there is only one choice" is also not enough, or that it is possible that the policy is pleasing and that the transition from one political option back to the other is also an interest that we are talking today about a supplement for a particular group of people. And I believe, you know, in this government and even in all those promises that have been made, and also in the coalition party program that we wrote down. I believe because a lot of things are happening, and not least, they're happening. I am surprised, however, that with these promises, which you have also made today, or about the culture of lies, you are at the same time asking the Minister how to support this matter as a member of the Government, and on the other hand you are accusing him of not believing it if he will bring his own law with concrete solutions for the generations that are in need of assistance today. Just as my colleagues had previously wondered that the generations that are needed and that pensioners are only one of them, I agree, because I have this generation at home and, of course, the pensioners are the ones who say - and if I express their opinion, they are only part of, and that they are probably needed, young people first of all, or the 43,000 who receive only 200 euros of aid from the country and must survive by doing so. And there are, of course, many young people among them. Because of this, the whole solution that we need in times when we all live hand in hand, because in the family, if it reaches out to four or at least three generations, this reciprocity and assistance is necessary. And the pensioners, the older people, are also the ones who first come to the aid in these matters. Therefore, I absolutely believe that the Government is coming with the law in a short time, and this law also means an immediate solution. The solution is only 8 or 9 months from now, as proposed - I do not see in the good solution and the proposal. And especially not because it excludes only one generation or, to say the least, only one human structure. And because of this marriage, I can't support it. However, I support - as my colleague Dejan mentioned earlier, we will probably all be looking very closely at each other when we defend or debate on the government's proposal, which will come with the solutions that the Minister has presented today in part. And that's probably where we'll also see if, for the solutions of generations to come out of the crisis, or whether it's cultural lies, bombs, or, let me put it, circles on highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I will repeat some things today, given that Members are constantly changing in this Chamber. I deeply agree, even in the previous government, that we need to look at the bag called the budget and then distribute what we can. Surely this should also be done in this mandate, and I know for sure that pensioners or those workers, the other categories of the population that you mention to save them, are much more needed than, for example, notaries or, for example, lawyers. In fact, both groups, at least for notaries, we will give exactly 60 million euros in amendments to the regulation, as they were saved last year. I also count as deleted among this group, so they certainly belong - I can see that these are the priorities of the Government and not pensioners or lower-income workers. Of course, it must also be said that I believed in the government programme, I believed when you accepted it, but it appears that we do not realize it. That is why I can no longer trust this situation. I believe the Minister, I repeat, and once again I repeat that no one attacks him on this side, he will surely draw up such a law and write immediately what great work he does not have with this law, but he will have to get the green light of the coalition, he will have to get the green light of the Minister of Finance. So to prepare some solutions in a short time, you have written in the revised government programme that you will adopt such a law with literally the same title 30.6., which means that this law can be supported today, you can modify, correct and adapt it so that it will be acceptable to the government coalition and will also be in line with the law you are preparing for the other categories of people with the lowest income. So, it doesn't seem to be waiting for some short-term solution to the government, this solution is here. Back her up! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u77	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u78	Nicely greeted! Many times today it has been said that we are in a recession that does not really choose between the population in terms of sex, education, social situation. Residents from the youngest to the oldest are affected. Today, the drafter of the law is benevolent to pensioners, regardless of the social situation of individuals. That's right. There's too many pensioners who barely spend a month or so on, we know that it's an older population, spending a lot of money on drugs and stuff. There are too many pensioners who cannot spend a month without financial assistance and other assistance from their children. It would be wise for us to be aware of the trauma that parents may feel when they ask their children for help, so it is usually the opposite of helping their children. However, among us are also young people, employees, young families, of course having children in kindergarten, in schools that are still creating a standard that every citizen and citizen, who is employed and is a caring citizen, should receive. All of this is to convince the esteemed assembly that, through a single measure of assistance, only one vulnerable group of citizens and citizens is not fair and is a "criminal" solution to the problem we are talking about. That is why, of course, I support the announced way of dealing with the vulnerable population groups prepared by the Ministry. Of course, intergenerational assistance is very important, but many times I also meet as a mayor with pensioners with a lot of material goods, but a low pension, but they are not willing to give up anything, including replacing a large apartment with a smaller one, because for a large apartment the costs are much higher and with a smaller one they are not satisfied. At the home of the pensioners we will go - perhaps our generation - so that we will sell our property and not expect the country to pay us the costs of the home pensioners, today this culture is different to us, even though in the world it is as I say. Today I want to hand over my building to my children, although they are already provided, and the country will take care of the pensioners' home; such views are unacceptable. Fortunately, our country is still very social and in the party of the Social Democrats, of course, we will strive to ensure that the concerns of the countries are given to all categories of the population. Of course, I know the budget lines in municipalities where we allocate social transfers: when we give birth to a child, for example, assistance in the payment of kindergartens, regression of school meals, subsidisation of rents, payment of services at home, municipal scholarships, subsidisation of home payments of pensioners, payment of health insurance obligations, payment of funeral expenses when necessary and also including. Finally, the free city bus in Nova Gorica contributes to the benefit of those who are socially disadvantaged; and it is mainly benefited by older people and young people. Indeed, all this aid goes to carefully defined citizens and citizens who prove the need for assistance and the same must be done by the Government. Therefore, it is not a matter of dividing the budget funds at once, so I will not support the Single Pension Allowance Bill, but I have asked the Government to immediately prepare the announced measures to improve the financial situation of all vulnerable groups. However, since it has been said today that a non-member group should tell her what it wants, I would also say: several times also quoted, a coalition treaty that you do not belong to, not your concern and we will already see to it that the coalition partners are realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u79	Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u80	Sometimes we do not afford to be among our colleagues, but it is a good greeting for our fellow workers and fellow workers! [[...]] It is clear that in times of crisis it is very desirable to propose one-off supplements, but this interferes with what is a defined system of justice, for with a finger is the choice of a certain privileged group that will receive this supplement and quickly forgets others. Today, it was said that someone quickly did, twice. Well, the bill would please, as I say, only some pensioners and a lot of people who really need help would not get it anyway. But there's a lot of people who don't need it. And why did I mention this saying, "Yes, quickly, twice." In fact, it seems surreal to me that there is some kind of intervention law that would make the first payment in a year or so in February 2010. It is clear that, of course, we could discuss this in a more comprehensive way and, given that it is not necessary, find a more comprehensive solution. Today's debate is mainly about solidarity. It is a question of solidarity because the paradigm of neoliberalism and capitalism has lost its power and it is solidarity that we are giving greater importance to in society today. Therefore, it makes sense to ask why the system of pensions that we are talking about today has arisen. The pension system is an institutional form of intergenerational solidarity based on the fact that you pay during working hours, so you contribute to this intergenerational solidarity so that you can later get something out of this solidarity. Clearly, all humans deserve to enjoy a dignified age. And it is very clear to me, too, that these worthy ages, unfortunately, I will probably not be able to live with just a well-deserved pension, but I will also have to save myself something to buy at least daily bread. However, it is also right that those who have paid more in this intergenerational solidarity during the working period also gain more. The proposal we have on the table right now would put it on my head. And those who went to retirement earlier or who contributed less to intergenerational solidarity today would receive more than those who worked longer or who contributed more. That's unfair. There was also talk of universal core income. I think that this idea is appropriate and it makes sense not only to talk about it but to realize it. Together with all the co-workers and co-workers in the National Assembly, together with the Government, we have the basis for a speech on such an arrangement, which would also solve a number of things that this proposal is now trying to resolve in a weak way. However, when we talk about intergenerational solidarity, it is not just a question of 100 euros, 150 euros, it is not just a question of money. We have and know a number of possible measures in the social field that strengthen intergenerational solidarity. First of all, we should consider promoting intergenerational solidarity in high school, for example, with the obligation to provide social services, where a high school student should be able to perform all duties and obtain a graduation or final diploma, to carry out extracurricular activities in, for example, non-profit organisations, charities or to assist older persons and thus to contribute to intergenerational solidarity and also to those persons. I attended such a system myself when I attended an international school in Devin and where this social service is essential for your graduation. And I learned a lot from these foundations of intergenerational solidarity when I had to assist the elderly in the village where I lived for two years as one of the options I had. But we have other options. In fact, thinking about relief in informal care, for example, a hospital not only for children but also regulating the possibility of a hospital for the care of parents. Or the arrangement of so-called "kangoorooo" apartments, as they know them in the Netherlands, where housing policy is regulated by several housing units that are intended for different generations in building blocks. This allows parents to live in an apartment, with their sons living with them, and with them, grandchildren can live. And so let us strengthen that system of intergenerational solidarity and significantly better and more effectively solve what today is trying to get rid of with one green, two blue and one red sheet of paper, 150 euros. Health network reform. We need to think more - not only about treatment, but about preventing and promoting healthy life. I would therefore like to remind you of the proposal that we heard at the time of the positive conjuncture by the previous government to sanction the hospital in the event of someone carrying out sports activity - disaster! Because it would be right to contribute to reducing that level of healthy life that we need to promote. We can strengthen the social role of a retired person in a number of ways and thus give him more opportunities to gain a stronger and better standing status in society. Through social activities in the local community; for example, every year the local community of Koper Center, from which I come, organizes a safe route to school where we - and here I publicly thank them - are assisted by pensioners and by roads standing and waiting every morning and directing children, stopping traffic in order to ensure their safe way to school. Assessing volunteerism, assessing assistance within the family, how important the role of the pensioner is, for example, helping to protect the children of their grandchildren, because we know that kindergartens are too expensive and even inaccessible to many. All of this could, for example, be evaluated through health insurance benefits, thereby reducing certain costs and encouraging people to remain socially active. Or through working age with the possibility of flexible schedules, mentoring and evaluation of working age, also through the form of assistance within the family, as I said earlier, the protection of grandchildren. The law, as it is prepared, belongs to the opposition anti-crisis package, which as a group is called demagogies. We have seen a proposal to reduce the income of legal persons to help the capital or tycoon in particular. Tomorrow we can probably expect a law that will propose a one-off supplement for young people, the one-time law on a one-time add-on for priests - I'm sorry, you've already arranged this. But we can soon expect a law on the free photocopying of euro banknotes, because otherwise there will be no money to finance all these beautiful dreams. It seems unfair to me that you propose such measures to those who in the last years of your stay in the National Assembly have consistently and consistently demolished the social state. A while ago, you broke the system of medical care in fertilizing all women, not just single women, so that you went towards intent to promote fertility. During the positive period you proposed tuition fees; during the positive period you wanted to reduce the basic health insurance rights; during the positive period you even wanted to introduce a single tax rate at which the poor would pay much more and the rich much less. Today's main message to the government is that it does not act in this area. However, we already have a starting point for the preparation of an intervention law on specific solidarity benefits for the materially threatened population. And according to this law, according to these starting points, not only would some pensioners be granted pensioners, but adults who are entitled to financial social assistance already today will receive monetary compensation for employment if their price is below 70%; the beneficiaries will be compensated for disability and pensioners. A more comprehensive marriage, a more just one, which requires more effort and more time to be well prepared. The remuneration will not only be paid once, but once a year, and it will be between 100 and 150 euros. I conclude with a conclusion that is also accepted by those who advocate the law. We have heard many times that marriage is not appropriate and that it needs to be complemented. More than once, it was also said by the opposite parliamentary bench. I hear that a lot of times when we've prepared something we know isn't good, but let us support it, and we'll fix it later. It reminds me of the confusion the government has made with pre-election candy, and now this coalition has to save it in one way or another. Today we decide whether the law is suitable for further consideration and, as I have heard from the other side, obviously this law is not suitable for further consideration. It is therefore right to stop looking at the poorly prepared marriage through our fingers and to do what is already done in primary school if the homework is poorly done - a flower and a commission that the student will be better prepared for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u81	Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u82	Yes, of course! Thank you very much. It would be good to remember that today we are considering a law on a single pension allowance, so that at least those watching us will know what we are talking about. In fact, according to the content of what we're saying or what you're saying, we wouldn't be able to understand that. That's why we should tell them. It has been said or debated enough about the privilege of one social group, which is supposed to be pensioners with the lowest income. That's what you wrote in the coalition agreement, and you didn't. That's the first one. Second. On the opposition's pressure, if you want, you're 8. 4. In the normative part of the Government programme, you will do so, however, and this is stated in your normative programme of 8. 4. So, are you also privileged to retirees? I don't think so. But we're talking about something else, we're talking about trying to equalize all the categories. That's in the government's position, that comes out of the debate. It means we're going to give a certain allowance to all those at risk. This is the first time I've heard that this will be a permanent supplement, that it will not only be once a year. This does not stem from the Government's explanation for this law, which is very good. We, too, want all socially disadvantaged groups to receive such an addition, and we support and welcome it, and this must be said again. As far as pensioners are concerned, all we want is for you to fulfill your own promise, your own commitment, which was made with the four signatures of the presidents of the coalition parties, and nothing more. However, since you have been delaying this matter from January to today, we are now considering this law, which we have tabled, otherwise we would not have dealt with it. At a time when we were preparing to discuss this law, you wrote yourself into a coalition programme, a normative programme of the government's work to prepare it up to 30. 6. I can't believe it. Correct this law, which is a good law that we can immediately vote on without the slightest problem. But let's only reconcile it so that it's compatible with what the Minister is still preparing and which we're going to accept in the autumn, and it's going to take over the rest of the population. There's something else we can do. We can support this marriage to move forward. At the same time as we will give the other categories, we can 'count' the validity of this law. And what's gonna happen? All will receive these financial incentives at the same time. No, no, no. But you want to reject this law so that you may consider what you might prepare when the analysis is done. That's what we're different about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u83	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today Parliament has again divided into those who also have a social sense of recession and are aware that in Slovenia it is necessary to take where it is useless or wasteful to steal, as has already been said here, and those who do not show this social sense, even when they face a multitude of people who are on the brink of poverty. The government we have has brought us into an extremely difficult situation in a very short time. There is an absolute impact on the global situation here, but the collapse and collapse of the crisis is so rapid on the part of this authority that it is seen to be inoperable and harmful. I'm not surprised if an economic minister comes out of the government because the preferences of the government are completely different. The government's preference is to re-establish the situation in which banks will have to be rehabilitated. The loans for the tycoons are being reprogrammed, and sooner it cries out that this isn't going to happen, but then it happens. And the rehabilitation of the banks will be necessary again under your government. The taxpayers will rehabilitate the banks again, and the funds we've saved have gone into private pockets so far. And yet, despite such views and positions, the former Culture Minister spoke and pointed to these benches to talk about a culture of lies, such as a culture of lies, she showed debates. But I must say, the predecessor of the Social Democrats has obviously doctored from a culture of lies. I didn't know what he was doing, but now I'm pretty sure he was a doctor from a culture of lies. He said that at the time of the previous government we had tabled the Single Tax Rate Act and that we had introduced tuition, the Schools Act. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u85	Mr Jerovšek, before you're finished, I just want to say this because he's lying on my soul and I have to say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u86	Don't let it lie to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u87	Please! Please don't insult your colleagues. If anyone has reached an academic level in this assembly as a Member or earlier, then please respect it. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u88	I respect that, but at the symbolic level of such an untruth, it's actually a culture of lies. Schools were theoretically proposed by some of Gabrov's School of School Reforms. And Gabe probably didn't belong on this side. It was said, however, that this law we are proposing, a law that will support certain privileged groups, is from the same speaker. I don't know how the least social strata can be reclassified into a privileged group. For those citizens who have such low pensions, I do not see that they have ever been privileged in their lives. I'd say they're deprived. And as a result, it is spoken from those branches whose political predecessors have actually doctored from the culture of death and the culture of crime, and this culture of crime is placed on the pedestals of monuments. Once again, as was said here today, how much "Cramars" is needed for this payment - 54 "Cramars" or one-quarter "Small" or something like that. This money, if you work by pulling Slovenia out of the crisis, to work for those who elected you who promised them this money exists in Slovenia. And I'm proud of our client for making this marriage. But it's actually contempt for these people when you say it's duality. In fact, we paid the money and introduced such a law and such an addition at the time. And this is supposed to be the moment I don't know the privilege of destroying the social state, as has been said. Why did we destroy the social state with this pensioner allowance? A social supplement, you say it destroys the social state, even during a conjuction. That's what you're telling us. Last year, we gave this supplement to the socially endangered, so it should still be on the tycoons' account. Probably. I believe he was greedy for that money, too. Fortunately, our authorities have managed to prevent this. And look, because of this kind of action, when you object to it, the nominee of Minister Shirce for the Human Resources and Accreditation Council, also here she writes, a reporter wrote for our client that it is a group of intellectually malnourished poor people. Because we care about social equality, we are intellectually malnourished poor. Such social laws are the nominees of your ministers, they are intellectual poor. This is also impatience, the promotion of intolerance, which is unconstitutional. And that's what your ministers nominees do. And colleagues and colleagues, as long as you are on the side of such or supporting, such preservation that it is a demolition of the social state, until then I can't imagine where the state of the spirit in Slovenia leads. We have socially endangered structures, they need to be assisted, and at the same time have a government capable of driving the country even during the recession. You promised you could run the country better, but now it's all gone down in a moment beneath all the standards elsewhere in the world. So you don't know. You don't know how to manage better, but you know how much worse it is, and you want to manage it in an asocial way. More to take away the socially endangered and pour into the pockets of a tycoon. I call on you to support this law, to take time to reflect, and in the second reading, to form additions with which this law will be further improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I would like to say or remind you that we are talking about the 6th point, which has the title: Proposal for a Single Pension Supplement Act. Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u90	I'd like to invite my colleague Jerovsk to stay, given that I'm going to replicate to him. First, I would invite him to attend lectures on 4 May from the Regional Geographic of the World at the University of Primorsk, in Cyprus, where he will see the brilliant students attending these lectures at the Faculty of Humanities Studies and may change his mind about who the intellectual poor person is. I'd answer the question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Dr. Luke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u92	I'd answer the question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u94	Can I answer the question of what I've been a doctorate in, and then I'm done with that?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u95	No, it wasn't about that speech. I think I've done the first part with my comment and you've now done the second part. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u96	Okay, thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u97	There's no replica to the replica. [[The ad in the hall.]] Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u98	Of course I'm protesting that. I quoted a reporter who nominated Minister Shirce as saying, "That poor SDS, this group of intellectually malnourished poor people." And my colleague Yuri wants to show me that I'm on his account. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u99	This is a replica, Mr Jerovšek. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u100	I'm protesting the abuse of the replica institute!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u101	I listened carefully to what you were saying, so I also read the title of the agenda item that we are discussing if someone has forgotten. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I will support the proposal for a single pension supplement law, as will my colleagues and some others who are members of the ruling coalition. In fact, it is the opposition's job to be constantly wrangling and monitoring what the ruling coalition is doing. That's the point and the meaning of democracy. And that's all we do. We do not want to raise political points on this account because, given the situation that is too serious, it makes no sense. Other times are coming for this, and the gathering of political points is called a pre-election campaign. We do not want to do this and we do not intend to propose any law in this regard in order to raise political points. Something else seems very important to me. Why is the Slovenian Democratic Party proposing a law? Because you didn't do it. That's how you made a commitment, and that's how you signed the four coalition partners. This should have happened, so you predicted, already in January, but unfortunately it's not. You have also announced in your introduction in this chapter that you are considering the long-term solutions. And these long-term solutions should, as you have written down, have been in force since 1. 1. 2010 It is impossible to arrange complete legislation in this area so quickly as to enter into force from 1. 1. 2010 And that's why we rushed this action. And perhaps, in fact, you are forcing us to act in those areas where you are actually late. There's nothing wrong with that. You're busy with some other activities, with some other obligations, so this must be done by the opposition. This has been the case for as long as Slovenia is a democratic society, and so let it remain until this social development reaches some higher levels of consciousness. Then it'll probably be different. And perhaps another word, two on the content of the reply given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where it writes that it does not support the proposal for a single pension supplement law. Dear Minister, I highly appreciate you. Also in your public appearances is the expression that you want to help. But you know, the content of such an explanation, I ask you politely to order those who wrote it not to do so anymore, because it may at the expense of your good work make it awkward. For ambassadors and Members, whether they are in coalition or opposition, read these contents. And if you actually analyze it, maybe my suggestion is that you give it to someone who gets to know what's on the table and have them comb this content -- you'll see how many contradictions there are. Let it be well-intentioned, and may it also be an appeal that in the future we do not deserve something like this, which we are the electorate of the people. I think that this is exactly what one of the colleagues has already discussed, so there is no point in adding more to it, but, as I said, let it be well-intentioned. However, as regards this whole range of different categories of people in the Republic of Slovenia, it is right to save them together and not selectively. However, some categories, some categories such as pensioners, have been given in the past, we also give in the present and we will give some priority in the future. Why? Due to respect for their past work, to respect that they have helped us and assured us that Members and Members of Parliament today can democratically decide the fate of the Slovenian people. They are grateful and grateful for this, for the fruits we enjoy today. And because of this moral and social aspect, colleagues and colleagues, we must be so respectful of their past work that we first allow them to ensure that they can live their age with dignity and that they will receive assistance as soon as possible, those who are urgently in need of assistance. This also calls for selective resolution of some of the weakest members in our country because of budgetary resources. Of course, it would be right to give other categories, but we all see together that the budget of this can. That's why we have to gradually. And if we delay this later, these things will accumulate, and unfortunately those who need help will lose some decent life in this country for which they have given much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I see we're heavily diluted in the hall. There are even no representatives of the pensioner's party. So, is this even a matter that's real or something, I don't get it. Here we are talking about democrats and nationalists about things that are especially tanning pensioners, as if they were talking to themselves. But I'm getting to the point. We fully support the intervention law in the Slovenian National Party, for the purpose itself is fully justified not only from a social point of view but also from a human solidarity perspective. I cannot accept the Government's opinion or position that this intervention law should not be justified because it represents only assistance to pensioners with the lowest pensions. For those of us who are in favour of such assistance to socially disadvantaged pensioners, no one can see any pre-election populism, because now is not a pre-election time, and the EU elections do not have the same weight as the national elections. The greatest spears usually break on the backs of the pensioners, at the pre-election time. I regret to tell you here another sad side which excuses such a pension allowance. In Slovenia there are, unfortunately, thousands of socially disadvantaged pensioners who, with their minimum pensions, help to "maintain" their unemployed children, even grandchildren and grandchildren. Thus, such an addition tanges other socially endangered segments of the population. I know it sounds incredible, but it's tragically true. I can talk firsthand. From my undeveloped region of Prekmurje, where the most of these farmers, threatened pensioners who receive, you have previously talked about 200 euros of pension, this is already a high pension, they receive 70, 80 euros. Mr. Secretary is probably aware of that. How they can survive, we can't even imagine. That something is true, however, the sanctification of opposers of the proposed law is incredibly transparent. If I think about the last month, two months of discussions in the National Assembly, giving priority to legal tariffs, as if lawyers were a socially endangered layer. But it's all under the pretext that the legal order doesn't work and that it's necessary because thousands and thousands of deleted people are waiting, and they've been given priority and given priority, but it's a lot more money, it's billions, according to the Minister's statements. But this is about €60 million. As someone has already said, this is actually the amount collected by members of the supervisory boards, administrations in state-owned companies, public institutions, institutions and so on. Clearly, money itself is not a problem, but the problem is that the proposal did not come from the right side again. And that's too bad. Although the law itself is possible to build up, to amend, to make it a systemic solution in the end, and we agree that it must come to it. That this cannot only be a one-time aid, this must be constant assistance, because the crisis will only deepen and it does not appear that this would not be the current second year and the following years. That is why I would still suggest that we let go of these political arguments now, and who made the proposal is either good or not good. We all know he's actually good. We all know it's money. And why don't we do it now, quickly, to really help people who need money. Nor can you imagine what a poor family of 150 or 200 euros can mean to a certain farmer. It is sad that we, in the Slovenian National Party, which is programmed to deal with something completely different, must help to understand and understand, if we are a social state after the constitution, that we must also act socially, because everything else is just sanctimonious and sedition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u105	Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! I will make my contribution to this debate on the single pension allowance in recent times as problematicly exposed to the role of a dual official as the Member of Parliament and also as the mayor. I am sure that we are the mayors, who are also Members of Parliament, and the mayor of those who feel this crisis most directly. We do not feel it according to the tables and data published by the media or the statistical offices. We do not feel it when we read how economic growth is decreasing or how social product is decreasing, how the number of unemployed is increasing. But we are familiar with this crisis in concrete forms of real distress for individuals, families, businesses that have been severely affected by this crisis and that do not show any rapid improvement. That is why it is difficult to listen to debates, although not least sympathetic and perhaps even on the basis of even a well-intentioned proposal, to listen to debates as we have seen them, and that this small presence does not show that Members and Members are not aware of the crisis and that the needs and hardships that people have, but rather that it is a reflection that most do not want to listen to performances, as we are witnessing, when even as severe a situation as some are experiencing, certainly is used to gain political points or to insult those who are opposed or who are otherwise thinking and who are now in coalition and not in opposition. It is therefore necessary to respect what is enshrined in our Constitution, that Slovenia is a social state and that this must be done professionally, comprehensively, systematically, what the government has promised, what the Government is doing. It is therefore very unfair to try and show some of the opposition's colleagues how the government is late, how it does nothing, how it has a bad attitude towards these socially disadvantaged, just for a simple reason, to show how bad this government is and how much better the previous one has been. And that is why he cannot maintain the view that they want to help. If we did not rush into various laws, as the SDS is now doing, the government would have made it easier and quicker to prepare individual system-wide laws, not to lose all morning, in Parliament, on committees, and to report to the opposition what is wrong with the individual proposal. And he listens to insulting accusations about how he works badly, how he is late, and how she did nothing in five, six months. Therefore, it is also a very unfair and unfair reading of magnetograms from the past. If they read, then it would be good to say, on what occasions, under what circumstances certain debates have taken place, and otherwise, in life, everyone who says maybe once, yes, then the circumstances change to make a decision for "no" or "no". At this point, it is most important to take a holistic approach to this solution, because, otherwise, we will be witnessing that, with such one-off moves, a single determination of the target population will make us even more imprudent than it is already on the ground. At this point, not only pensioners are at risk, although unfortunately they are very, and there are also very many who are in need of assistance, and the Government is also trying to fix this. Where are the young families? Where are the young people? Where are the unemployed? Where are the fathers or mothers of single mothers who probably live in worse situations than some retired women? And just looking at the height of the pension, it's very unfair. It is a pity that Mr Jerovška is not in the hall to tell him only one category of pensioners who certainly do not deserve a single allowance despite their low pension. These are gentlemen who were craftsmen in the previous system, or whatever they were called, who did not pay an adequate share in the pension or other fund, and who today have a shameful low pension. But wherever you look, you see their properties, children and so on. And that's why such a law, which is not made, which is populism, which is otherwise attractive, is very unfair. And that's why we're against it. But not because of how you want to show that we do not feel socially, that we do not have an understanding of the crisis that is happening, but because we do not want to cause new injustices with such a law and believe that the state will take care of and make an appropriate law that will make life easier and easier to overcome for the rest of us, not just for the pensioners. It is a pity that there is no Mr Jerovsk to tell him that there is no need to frighten people, that this government has done and that it is doing everything possible to rehabilitate banks once again. It'll be very interesting to see. Who has done this to make it really necessary to remedy who in the previous mandate did not make concrete decisions to prevent the formation of tycoons, to prevent the acquisitions that are now a fact? For this reason, it is wrong to accuse this government, which is only a few months in power. And it is very, very, very much, I'm looking for an expression, by the SDS, to mark us and call on us to have a spine and not be soldiers. I am sure that there is no one on this page who will listen and vote in a blind manner, as the leader of the delegation or the president of the party tells him. This is evident also from the votes that are taking place in this mandate, not in the previous term, and that it is certainly such a law to raise political points, which I say is very good in one part and one group of people needs this assistance, but not in that way. In all the proposals tabled by the SDS in Parliament, it is precisely to feel that this involvement of the government and the ministries is hampering their better work, which is for a lot of people, I am sure, also the goal: harder than it is, better for us. I am not talking about a concrete proposaler today, but about those who make every opportunity, every debate, to extend the debate not to what is on the agenda, but to everything. Like, for example, the previous Mr Jerovšek, who said everything he had, from the tycoons, from the government, from the doctors of death and so on and went to the messo. It's definitely a collection of political points, it's populism. Perhaps colleague Richtareva was too specific or set too much of a goal when she said "culture of lies". It would be good to have a basic culture to talk to each other at some point, and this is precisely the kind of topic that concerns those who are most affected and that, I am sure, and I hope that they are not looking at it in any way, in a seven-year debate or a little less, we are also wasting our time and the means of discussion for which we are all united and which the Government has said nicely that it is solving the problem systematically, but unfortunately this problem and this law and this proposal is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I'm doing my best, and I'm here all the time, except for one coffee and lunch that I've had, and I'm trying to answer, of course, and prove something to you. So we don't privilege anyone with this law. We don't privilege anyone with this law. Last April 8th, a few days ago, the government introduced a law with the same title, a copy of the trap. What's this all about? Is there a government of populism? I don't think so. I'd rather say he's on the government side of a lost compass. Since in January, he wants to pay, enters into a coalition contract, in January, after that time comes, he forgets, when we remind him of the law, he introduces it into a normative programme. What we want is once again: we support the Minister and the Government to all those with low incomes. I'm going to say it again. The law that is before us, amendment, if you think it is necessary, align it with the minister's and release it to the second reading. Maybe that's it. I am also monitoring media responses, and on one of the media sides, I find that I am not a proponent and that I have not debated today. This is why the coalition MPs debated. Probably because I'm an opposition MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u109	Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Excuse me? Excuse me, Mr. Tsukati, please, Mr. Posedel. It would be a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you. Yeah, very short. This is the dilemma that has been raised by the applicant. I also agree that marriage is necessary, but we cannot, in a parable, adopt such a bad proposal, which will take so many amendments and so many amendments that it will lose its purpose. It's impossible to upgrade a Mercedes body if I give the parable to the undercarriage of a fault, which is what everyone would like. Therefore, this case needs to be rejected or not adopted and a new law prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss Dr. Gorenak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u112	As a proponent of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u113	As a proponent, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u114	I'm stressing again. This law is completely identical to last year's, apart from inflationary explanations. So it can't be a freak. And last year you supported him, so you can do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The topic of this debate is the law on a single pension allowance, not the subject of Mr Jerovska's debate, as was the case with one of my previous interlocutors. It is certainly an interesting topic and also an interesting debate. I must say that I am disturbed and disturbed by the quality of the debate only by the fact that the coalition is experiencing our proposal or when we point out some problem as an attack on the coalition, an attack on the government. For God's sake, here in the National Assembly, we don't have to discuss just those problems that the government is opening up or those problems that the coalition is starting. We are obliged to discuss many of the problems people are facing today. If the opposition proposes a law, it opens up a problem that is not being discussed here, not to understand it as an attack on the coalition, in terms of demagogies or the accumulation of political points. The elections are far ahead. Certainly this law, as just mentioned, is a repetition of the law of last year, by which we gave one-off aid to those with the lowest pensions because the cost of living has risen dramatically and pensions are slowly rising or harmonising through their mechanism. These prices, especially food products to which most of the lowest pensions are intended, do not change, do not fall. And this problem remains the same as last year for pensioners with the lowest pensions. As a result, we have proposed that pensioners with the lowest pensions be paid in two parts of a supplement as before. And it's interesting to hear what's invented as an argument against. In all ways, he tries to contradict this proposal and to make it meaningless, stupid, unacceptable. One of the first statements rejecting this proposal is that others also need such assistance in order to solve the problem for all categories; unemployed and those with the lowest income and so on are also meant. Gentlemen, if we always had such concern for other categories, including those with the lowest personal income, then we would not have passed a full-time subsidy law without our amendment. At the time, we proposed that this subsidy go directly into labour pockets with the lowest income, that is to say in the pockets of those workers who, due to reduced working time, are at 10%. No, the amendment was not accepted. These funds, this subsidy goes directly to the employer. The next reason or the next argument you object to this law is that an intervention law is already being announced in terms of basic universal income, which will systematically solve all problems of underincome and so on. This is a wonderful proposal, and I can tell the Ministry representative that we are already promising to support this law in advance. However, I doubt that we will see this law, according to experience, after experience in this term, by the end of the year, if we ever will. I'd be happy to be surprised otherwise if I had to change my mind. One very interesting argument is that our law will not apply until next year. It is true that the balance of the budget has already been adopted this year. We cannot propose this year. Such a proposal would be rejected on your part. For we cannot propose a budget rebalancing. You're the only one who can do this. But the crisis of these dimensions, believe me, will continue next year. The following year, too, pensioners with the lowest pensions will wait or be happy to have at least a few checkpoints with them, including for the following year. And if we want it for the next year, it is now necessary to adopt such a law before we adopt the budget for the following year. And that was our purpose, nothing else. And this law is in no way contrary to the announced intervention law that is to apply this year. Of course, the government can put this into practice because it also has the power to propose a rebalancing for this year. I said we'd back him up. This is said to be two fully compatible proposals, compatible, that can be harmonised if the Government keeps this promise and proposes a law on a basic universal supplement or income already this year. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, do not view this as an attack on the coalition as unpleasant. I don't think it should be awkward for you to face problems that someone else opens up and not the government. Let us be honest, be right, let us solve problems together. And even if in one way or another you do not agree, let us put the law into procedure, but in the meantime the Law foretold will come and we can withdraw or reject it and adopt a government law that will also save the pensioners. This would be an ideal solution, but for now, I think it's only in my dreams.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I think today's debate in the National Assembly shows that we are all concerned about the increasingly deteriorating social picture. We all know that at this time there are increasing numbers of people who need help to be pensioners and older, younger, young families, disabled people who have been suspended by the previous authorities from coordinating their remuneration with the growth of pensions and are in an extremely difficult social situation today. The situation is also getting worse for the middle layer, the people who had jobs until yesterday and who entered this crisis with a credit burden to repay their loans they had hired to build their homes. And tomorrow, before all of us, will be this difficult role in helping people to keep their homes. After this debate, which has been taking place all day in the National Assembly, I am sure that we need a comprehensive solution more than individual fairly populist proposals. I am convinced that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has given these solutions and placed them properly in what is now the key task of this country. Firstly, to maintain social stability and allow people to enjoy a decent time of crisis. Secondly, let us do our utmost at this time to modernise the country and the economy to take advantage of the new opportunities that green technologies and green energy give us to create better jobs and more creative jobs for people. Even by not interfering with existing social rights. As a coalition Member, I would like to say that I have been admiringly following some of the forecasts that we have been able to monitor in the media at this time. What really bothers me about this issue is the connotation, where a number of speakers from the opposition circle, more precisely, from the Slovenian Democratic Party, take advantage of every opportunity to prevent and constantly undermine the Government's position in its own context. I cannot help but comment on some of the debates, and I will be very graphic and direct. I'm sure it's such perverse interpretations that some Mr Branko Grims, I think, wakes up in the morning, opens a newspaper, reads worse economic forecasts and comes to work with good will. This masochism, it seems to me, sometimes even so far away, that some with passion and enthusiasm monitor the daily increase in the number of unemployed, so that again here in this hall they can point to the government and coalition and say, "Look, you can't lead the country. We were in power before, the country had record economic growth. Now you're in power, and suddenly we're at minus 4% of GDP." I think that this is where economic growth comes from and where the crisis comes from. 7.9% of this country's economic growth in 2007 was achieved. I congratulate the previous government on this achievement. It was based on low value-added industries and on high foreign debt. In four years, you have indebted the country once more than it has done in 15 years of independence. And this is today a serious obstacle to this country's success in the face of the crisis. Yes, you are. I think our actions are comparable and timely and at the same time comparable to those of comparable countries. Even those countries that we can read most about in a foreign newspaper: Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries. Where does the crisis come from? I'm sick of the interpretation we hear in this hall every day. That this government is responsible for the crisis. I think the Prime Minister of the government said at one of the opening performances: "This crisis is not your fault. It's not the former government's fault." I think we could be so real, so honest that you can tell us where the causes of this crisis are. And these causes of the crisis are outside Slovenia. It is true, however, that we have some problems because of the low competitiveness of some sectors of the Slovenian economy, that we have a poorly trained public sector, that we have a high debt and some other things that are due to your government. And your government has not done us any smart service to dig this country out of the crisis. The Minister of Finance, Dr. France Križanič, recently stated that he also promises universal civil income. I think now is the time to look for innovative concepts and change this perverse logic on which the last thirty years of human development have been based. Let us first give man security and an open perspective so that he can create freely, and thus motivate him to work, good work and creativity. Each of us who has ever done anything creative knows that creativity cannot be drawn out of fear, but always from the inspiration and perspective that this creativity creates. That is why I think that universal civil income should also be discussed. I am not saying that we have to introduce it tomorrow, but I think that this is one welcome, innovative novelty that we need to talk about, perhaps as a new building for a new social security system. In the meantime, as long as we are having this debate, and I think it is welcome in any case, I think we need a comprehensive intervention law, a measure to help all the most socially vulnerable. This is what Minister Svetlik has promised many times. This is a united expectation of the National Assembly, and I am sure that only a comprehensive solution, not a solution, such as the Dragan Supplement last year, with which you, by the way, also caused a series of injustices among the same categories of the population, in order to fully manage this and give help to those who need it. And a second time. I welcome today's announcement by Minister Svetlik to allow some 30,000 insured persons who have not yet completed 120 months of inclusion to benefit from early retirement benefits. This represents, according to the Ministry's calculations, between EUR 100 and EUR 5,000 per insured person, depending on how long he saved, how long he contributed to the supplementary pension scheme, for 30,000 people. I think that this is one smart measure that we need today to get help to the people who need it as soon as possible. The fact is that this crisis does not originate from Slovenia and its end does not depend on how we will be innovative here. It is important that we look to the future at this time and imagine what Slovenian society, the Slovenian community and the Slovenian economy should be like in five years' time. Today's our chance to do it. I'm sorry your government hasn't had these visions in the past four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. A replica? A debate on behalf of the proposer? Can you do that if you want to? No, no, no. Later. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is logical that "playmaber" will have the candidates behind me, because I would like to say that nervousness is completely irrelevant on his part when he first told me that due to last year's vote, I avoided today's debate. I postponed the debate because of some other obligation I had outside. But at first, I'd like to say why I voted for this law last year, not just for this law. I also may have voted in favour of any proposal by the opposition at that time, but perhaps you do not wish to give this statement. The previous government silenced me last year, and so were you in this government, completely close to the President of the former government to get closer to the recessionary tsunami. Even more. You have deceived us at the beginning of last year before the presidency, that we are in the golden age, that there are surpluses and so on and that we are destined for a better period. You talked about this at the end of 2007, and you talked about this at the beginning of 2008. We're in 2009 this year. Your assessments, the analyses you had as executive at the time, and you had scissors and linen in your hands, were misleading. And it was for these reasons that I voted in favour of such laws, which I did not agree with, of course, for they were unique things that did not solve things in the long run, especially when we were talking about existential and social matters. Another time. You yourself are proposing to look at the paper you placed on the table today and at the beginning of your goal you have a statement of claim written down: we will further improve the social situation of pensioners. Are you kidding? That's what they say, they have a good position. You're judging that they have a good position. You're only improving this good position a little bit. Look, when you're so specific about some of the other papers you're reading. Thirdly, when today's mandate-holder took place in the National Assembly and I was at this meeting, Mr Gorenak, the SDS Group with you did not support the Government's programme, but voted against the mandate-holder. Take a look at the record and do not say that you supported the government program at the time, but today, when you see that it does not come true, you no longer agree with it. That is why I must first point out that I admire such a keen sense of proponents for the social problems of people, for the persistence to help people. If you and all of us were to do this together in the previous term, and if I am speaking to myself because of your exposure to me today, look back a little bit at my discussions on the lowest wage, the guaranteed salary and so on, to which the then majority in this National Assembly explicitly objected to things being regulated, and we lived in times where you said that this public financial bag was so full that it was even forceful over the edges. I agree that today there is no point in identifying and discussing who is to blame, who has caused so many people to find themselves in this unenviable social situation. However, the fact is that several categories of people, just pensioners, today find themselves in an unenviable existential position. That is why I agree, if ever, then in these situations and today, a sense and some solidarity approach is needed. But this level of solidarity is not enough. I believe that this is a systemic humanitarian gesture that does not solve the existing situation for all these categories of people over the longer term even in these crisis situations. It can help you through your problems. And I ask my mother, because she's a pensioner, from 1st to 30th in the month with such an addition, but she still has 11 months left to 12 months, so it doesn't solve the long-term existential problems that these people are actually in. That is why measures and moves are important to me, and I expect this from the Government as well as you in the opposition, and I think that this will now come to the government in the next month, two months, which will trigger the cycles of this economic growth and create some added value, on which we will then be able to talk about this division in the National Assembly. At the moment, I do not explicitly oppose this supplement, but with all four I support the proposal announced by the Minister or the Government, namely this measure to improve the financial situation of all the groups at risk at this time. I hope and believe that this measure will come with this third package, and then we will not only be able to repeat this discussion, but, as I have seen today, we will all support this together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Of course, I'd rather use time to discuss the law, but things are going so well that I have to answer the other things. As far as economic growth is concerned, it is the second time today that one of the Members spends a whole lot of things and then goes away, and the man is in a dilemma because he cannot answer it; today I will, for the last time, not to him. As far as economic growth is concerned, it did not come with good weather or bad weather, like hail, nor did the crisis come with a beautiful or bad weather like hail. That's clear. We are part of the world, we are entangled in this world, and I fully understand this situation. Slovenia has stated in the Slovenian Development Strategy that our economic growth will be better than the average of the European Union by 3% in order to achieve the European Union within ten years. That's what we wrote down. As far as our government is concerned, we have achieved this. The average of Europe was about 2%, and sometimes a little over, and we had between 5% and 7%. As far as the current situation is concerned, I do not say that this has come with some time, but it is logical that it is also a consequence of the world situation, in the financial and economic sphere of the world, and at the same time there is not enough government action. If the government's actions were sufficient and if they reached 3% more than the average of Europe, even if they went negative, I will at least personally congratulate you. So if Germany is going to have minus 3, we should have zero if Germany is going to have minus 4, minus 1. So the situation is that the Germans are predicting minus 3, and we're minus 4, which means we're lagging behind. As for all other matters, I do not intend to answer each individual. But once again, there is a law before us that we have written because the coalition did not want it, despite its commitment to it. What is coming, however, is welcomed by us in any case. We're not going to press "for" right now. But I'm afraid that won't happen because you won't bring it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am somewhat sorry that I was partly absent today because of other duties and may be repeating myself in some ways or saying what has already been said. There is certainly a finding that there will be another measure in the area of pension protection for older persons. However, it is probably not in the way it was heard in the government proposal to extend working time to 65 years. If it were to be permanent that the working week was shorter, somehow people would still accept it, because it is a shortening of the working week's anti-crisis measure, but only temporarily, we hope, and as soon as possible temporarily, then this question is not to be taken into account. However, since I am on short notice if the Government found money there to subsidise part-time work, it would suggest that it would be considered if 54 million euros could not be allocated from the same package for a single pension allowance. The supplement is urgently needed in these times of crisis for these 250,000 people, as estimated by approximately the number of beneficiaries. People, when they get this money, they won't look at whether it's a pre-election candy, whether it's a gift I don't know which customer, but they'll spend it primarily with joy and benefit in these difficult times. I remember once being paid such an allowance that it was much appreciated that it was very well received among those who were entitled. Some also then, in the discussions there was a "I did, but I missed just for one euro because I have an over-retired pension and I did not get an allowance". [[...]] I said, "Be glad you have such a high pension that you don't need an extra." I cannot understand, however, that the Government, the largest government party that is socially oriented, at least as advertised, cannot find these 54 million euros that would bring relief to pensioners with the lowest pensions, and on the other hand, has a great deal of work to do to guarantee New Ljubljana's banks for two billion euros, from which so-called Taiwanese credits will also be drawn, to pay back in a very strange way the assets acquired, i.e. for transactions of which the poorest layers have nothing. Moreover, those so-called tycoons are very poor at taking care of their assets, as their businesses are, as a rule, in crisis and endangering additional jobs. We all know where the pension money comes from. If it's not working, if it's part-time, then the average salary will fall and on that tied-up pension. Thus, the number of pensioners at risk in the second half or in 2010 will be even higher. Today, we have also heard that the opposition is obstructing the government with its proposals. Since I am here in a serious institution, with this humorous comment, I did not laugh out loud, because as far as I can see, hear and read, the government is the one that is obstructing itself. I would only remind you of this week's dialogue between Minister Kresalovo and Golobic. When one is persecuting the other to work and above all [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u125	Mr. Zicherl, I didn't want to interrupt you earlier when you were talking about the tycoons, so you wouldn't have the feeling that you shouldn't have anything outside the point of reference. But don't talk too much outside the point. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u126	Yeah, thanks. I'll be right back. I would certainly like to comment that the opposition, with its work, never and never interferes with the government, because it is the duty and right of the opposition to act in the way it works. Even in the previous term, there was opposition, and there were times when she said something unpleasant, but she had free access to the word, and there was no immediate intervention to get us off the agenda. Finally, I would point to something else, once again out of the agenda - if it was Earth Day today, I would also draw attention to this point concerning everyone, from those who are one year old to the oldest pensioners. The earth is a sensitive instrument and, in fact, it has to be put back into the established rails by some measures if nature does not send us a very expensive account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ivo Wigel has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr Franz Bogovic - Slovenian People's Party has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Only Bevk has the word. [[No, no, ……]] The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u128	All of you, have a good day. It is certainly very interesting how everything in Orwellian by the transition left turns to the head. In fact, it has been the first good half of the year since the elections, a period when, in fact, the ruling coalition only vehemently prevents the opposition from taking anything good for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens, pensioners and, in particular, the Slovenian economy. The proposals that we have put forward are either rejected or torn apart, and in this period you have only achieved that, from a time when we were a few percent of economic growth above the average of the European Union, you have reached a period when we are a few percent below the average of the European Union's economic growth, meaning that we are moving away from it. This is what you have achieved, and that is why you are in trouble today. Not for the first time, because the proposal for pensioners to receive an allowance has already been tabled. And, of course, you turned him down. Now let's see what these things look like by making the election promises come true. Not only is the position, the ruling position of the one that prevents the adoption of smart, well-prepared, professionally justified measures, but it does not even realize its own electoral promises, for in the transition left there was a promise that everyone would have a 1,000-euro pension. Some have even won elections directly at this, it's no secret, and they're in coalition today. What's left of it? After the elections, this decreased to 300 euro in addition, when we proposed it, when you inflated the budget's balance to the sky, which is at a time when the state should be saving, extremely questionable, unprofessional, this is pure ignorance, inexplicable, to understand, you did not even support our proposal to make your own or not a pre-election promise, but at least that eligible substitute you made. This is really the story of how the ruling of this coalition is going. From the beginning, I have been convinced that this is primarily a diversion, but now I have to say that I am increasingly confident, that every day you can give me the argument that it is not really so much a diversion, but just a lack of knowledge and incompetence. This is the story of why Slovenia is going back faster and you are not even realizing what you have promised even as a substitute for pre-election promises. Surely all of us who are in this Chamber are so honest with citizens and citizens that we know they deserve this allowance. Surely everyone in the coalition is also very confident that you know that the money for this would be enough. If 150 million is not a problem to one of the major tycoons and then a coalition circus is staged in public entertainment to blur it out, even though we all remember how the finger stinged at some event to the key man in transition left and we all said, one day the account will come. It's only now that the bill has come in for 150 million euros. Who's wondering? We don't, but we're sad that it is. But when it comes to pensioners, the decision is postponed from month to month, from week to week, from day to day. Somewhere in the distant future, which you predict will be positive, bright and shiny. Unfortunately, as long as this, non-professional leadership, ignorance in the coalition, which can't even read its own material, as it happened at the previous session, and then you ran to see what it says in your own material, after I quoted you there behind the advocacy desk, what it says, Slovenia will not come anywhere for as long as it takes. And as a result, I am increasingly convinced that it will be necessary to look for ways out for Slovenia, especially in the face of the moment of truth. For this incompetence and ignorance of yours is devastating, especially because they are combined with arrogance, because they are combined with the magnificence with which you constantly mock and reject all our proposals. But don't do anything on your own. What kind of third package? It wasn't the first one.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u129	Mr Grims, I believe that your grades are very valuable to the Slovenian public and to the National Assembly, only relationships with the law have none.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u130	Of course they have a connection, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u131	But you've repeated them several times, and if you went to look at your debate, you'd see that you're saying the same thing over and over and over again. Please, let's focus on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u132	I understand the truth hurts, Mr. President. But that's the essence of the story, why the pre-election promise of the transition left to increase or at least an acquittal promise to the pensioners has not yet been fulfilled, is that of pensions. That's the whole point of this story. And that's why we have to tell the truth here. I don't know if we can't speak the truth in this House anymore, and then I don't know where I can go anymore. However, I must say that you, as Vice-President with the President of Parliament, are on the line when it comes to limiting the debate of the opposition, while you have very different criteria for the Government, i.e. double criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u133	Mr. Grimes, I didn't restrict you. I asked you and I warned you. As for the truth, I will be very happy when you tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u134	Well, that's what it says. I'm glad I took care of a lot of joy today. Allow me to conclude in this context and to say that I think it would be a time for the coalition to see itself to support the law we have proposed. You can also supplement it, you can redirect some of the funds from all those reservations that you know well about, and make sure people who are entitled to receive additional resources for a person worth living because they deserve it as citizens and citizens of Slovenia. For this reason, it would be worthwhile to support our proposal and, nevertheless, to step over this arrogance of yours, with which everything that we propose professionally and well-being is rejected, and you are not really proposing anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I hope that from the perspectives I have rightly found that Mr Petan is giving up the proposal for a procedural debate and that Mr Tanko, the leader of the Group of Members, wishes to have it. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, as well as most of the others who are holding the meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you to be equal to everyone so that the debates of all Members can be measured by the same watts even by the meeting of the National Assembly. But here we are witnessing debates and debates by the chairman with the speaker, as a rule from our parliamentary group, whatever it is, and you are simply constantly disturbing him during the debate. We listened to your Members' debates earlier on this agenda item, Mr Kontić, when he spoke about zebras across the highway, Mrs Richter, who spoke about circulars on the highway, but there was no problem. The topic has nothing to do with it. When someone from the opposition starts talking about comparisons, about the facts that led to this situation, about the need for this law to be passed, then the Presidents intervene in the debates and disturb the Members in the debates. Such conduct is incorrect and I recommend to all, especially those who guide these meetings of the National Assembly, as well as to the working bodies, that you do not use it. Let the Members say what they intend to say. If necessary, it will be a replica, as usual under the rules of procedure, and I think it is extremely arrogant that the President intervenes in the debate, upsets and disturbs the Member and directs attention to things that have nothing to do with the subject. Mr Grims spoke exclusively about the reasons which led the Slovenian Democratic Party to bring this law into the legislative process. He didn't talk about other things. And the chairman can't interfere with what the colleague will say. He doesn't have that right. If necessary, one of the members of the parliamentary group, who said otherwise, would justify, explain or reject the argument put forward by the Member. I would also like to point out that in this debate, my colleague Grimes did not insult anyone. This is usually a problem or a reason for the intervention of the President. He spoke only of the facts. And let the Members we are discussing on this side tell us what are the facts and what are the facts and reasons why this law is necessary for adoption and consideration in the National Assembly. But not to abuse the function, abuse the position, abuse the power and simply obstruct and destroy the debates of our Members. This is unacceptable and means that you use your role arrogantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I've been running a meeting of the National Assembly today since 2 p.m. Nothing about what Mr Tanko said has been heard, nor has he been involved. But you should say that everyone has a right. You, Mr Tanko, and the Members and Members for the debate, and I, as long as I sit here to chair the meeting. We can have different views about this, only you know very well that your proposal has not been procedural, because you have not made any proposals either. And I have the right to assess what I think is the content of a debate that does not fall within the framework. I may be wrong, but I have that right. Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Now I hope you've listened very carefully. I have said that it is not right for those who hold meetings to intervene in the debates of Members discussing a specific item on the agenda and talking about the reasons that are directly related to the matter which is on the agenda today. Probably doesn't have that right, either. No matter how he interprets you as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I also object to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I have said what I propose. I also suggest that I do not use any other verbs to take such a proposal into account for those who hold the meetings. He is not lashed by any provision in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Members of Parliament have the right to say what we think.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I note that those who hold the meetings have the right and the duty to ensure that the meeting is held in accordance with the agenda. Thank you very much. Next comes Tomaž Tom Mencinger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The budget - whether it be state, municipal or domestic - has three things. One is income, one is expenditure, and one is desire as such. I think that at all these levels this stuff has to be adapted somehow. Today, I must first and foremost find that we can witness the mockery of individuals: of ourselves, of us and of all of Slovenia. Some forget that for four years they had everything in their hands so that they could do what they now say to the government. You have a feeling they lived somewhere else in the world. They were party soldiers. Here's the obvious that we're military parties now, I think it's too much. Talk about 10% economic growth. I think it is right to say that there was a great deal in Slovenia during this period, but it worked mainly on roads and on apartments. We forget that during this period Slovenia is very, very indebted. Three months ago, we warned some Members about the crisis and the things that are happening, but we were ridiculed by opposition colleagues that it is not. Now all the fertilizers and all the obviouss are falling on the government, which has actually entered into this global crisis and this thing needs to be solved. I think it is forgotten that this debt, which I mentioned earlier, and many skeletons, which were mainly during that electoral period, are still the new governments. Pure demagogy. You're acting exactly on the focused population of people, that's retirees today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u141	Mr. Mencinger, it will not be clear to me that I am not warning you. Come on, you focus on the content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u142	I'm moving on to this story we're talking about. [[...]] I'm gonna respect this thing. I'm gonna finish it. In particular, I would say that I would somehow expect from all of us Members that we are somehow tearing these kinds apart and that we are looking for solutions for the good of Slovenia that are really solutions. I am sure that Slovenia has many things and many opportunities, a working nation, which is patient, and the logistics of the country as such, especially on transport and tourism. I think these are things that need to be relaxed, and I would really like to talk about these things. I will not support the proposal, but I would agree with those who have proposed that these things should be fully resolved. Here are the young populations, here are the employees, and you could list them. That is why I think that this thing like the Government needs to be brought to fruition very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is "Cveta Zalokar Orazem." She won't discuss it. Renata Brunskole. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. It's a crane. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope I'm allowed to say what I think. Before I got the word, some observations were already coming in from the other side, and I hope that won't be too much of a distraction to the debate. First of all, for the introduction, when we're talking about arguments. On 13 November, a coalition agreement on the cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2008-2012 mandate was signed. On the 32nd page of this coalition agreement, you have written the following: "In 2008," this is said within one month and a half after the signing of the agreement "we intend to propose to the coalition partner, taking into account social and public financial sustainability, the adoption of a special law in which we will provide for a special supplement to the lowest pensions. The supplement will be paid in two instalments, scheduled for January and September. An allowance of EUR 300 will be paid for the recipients of the lowest pensions and the calculation will be adjusted to limit the total amount of the allowance paid in 2009 to a maximum of EUR 60 million." This is a quote from the coalition agreement. I can tell you that in 2008 after November 13th until New Year's Eve, you did not propose anything. I can also conclude that until today, by 22 April, you have not proposed anything and that the first payment deadline for January 2009 is long overdue. It is because the coalition of its commitment, which it has enshrined in the coalition agreement, does not comply, that we have written a law that literally and accurately follows the dictates of the coalition agreement. We propose a one-off allowance for those who receive the lowest pensions. Exactly as it says in the coalition agreement. And I don't understand all of the people you've discussed in the National Assembly when you're asking why we're trying to positively discriminate against one of the affected groups, not all of them. Then why didn't you write it in a coalition agreement and save it this way? If we had a second substantive basis under the coalition agreement and you did not propose it, be assured, we would propose a law covering all affected groups or all vulnerable groups that need such and such assistance. We have done nothing else, nothing else than you have written into your constitution, a small constitution, a coalition constitution, into a coalition agreement. Nor does he bear the impression that we are not consistent in our conduct. We are in the previous term, when we were also a leading coalition party because of the situation and also because of the obvious that, say Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič as a representative of the civil initiative, she has repeatedly appeared in public and said that it is unsustainable to live below the poverty threshold of 200,000 citizens. In the previous term, too, many coalition members have constantly been troubled by this. And we, when there was actually a period of good economic growth, as well as the pride of the obvious, because you said that the citizens did not feel it, proposed a law on a single pension allowance, which was, thank God, adopted. Members of parliament who today most oppose and challenge his solution, such as Matjaž Han, former Franz, voted in favour of this law. [[Ferry]] Horvat, former Yuri Aurelio, father of our Member, Bojan Kontic, Kumer Dušan, Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Pecan Breda, Potrata Majda, Potrč Miran, Weber Janko. It is said that practically the entire Social Democrats Group backed up the proposal for a single pension allowance at that time. Today, when we have a similar proposal, exactly the same Members and the wider backdrop, which was formed after the elections, clearly contradicts this law. Instead of the fact that the coalition Members already have written in their constitution what needs to be done immediately at the beginning of this mandate, this was the first law you have foreseen to adopt in this mandate in a coalition agreement, you have not done so. And to tell us that we are two-faced, because we first proposed such a law last year, and this year we did what you didn't do to make us two-faced, is unsustainable. You are a two-faced man who, in the previous term, supported the law with a similar content. In this mandate, if you can upgrade it, don't do it. It's unacceptable, and it's two-faced. What is written in the Government's works and what has been announced that the Government will do to take into account the wealth situation of those who will be recipients of the aid and the date when the Single Aid Act is proposed to all groups, I do not think it will hold up. The basis for such an approach is the real estate law, the property taxation law. That's not the law. You do not have an accepted legal basis on which to obtain a basis so that you can approach it in this way. And before the government proposes such a solution, it will have to adopt a preliminary law first in order to obtain a basis for it to be able to do so at all. And that's why what's written in the government's paper and what you're saying to the coalition MPs is misleading the public because you can't do it in such a short time. And the question is, if you can do this at all, because the law that will tax real estate is the law that will hit the tycoons. It's not a problem of pay or a higher wage problem of tycoons. The problem of tycoons or what's problematic is their property. These are their yachts, their apartments they have, their other things they have. And you probably won't be able to solve that in such a short time. I'm sure you don't. By not supporting this solution, this law, which we have proposed, also distances the adoption of any assistance. It is unacceptable and unsustainable to talk about the lack of funds in the budget. If the budget finds funds to increase notary tariffs, to increase the legal tariffs, if the budget finds funds for those who write laws and operate pear jobs, it is likely that it will also find funds for those who are most in need. I don't think you'll have any problems in this part. Why is this law still needed? Especially because there's been a major inversion in this country. Last year we were able to conclude with a high-positive economic growth, I think the average was around 4.5%. This economic growth was higher by 3 percentage points than the average of the European Union, but despite the fact that there was a lot of employment during this period, that the number of unemployed decreased, that average wages and average pensions increased, we approached and settled this by law for those who have, say, problems and cannot afford these salaries. Now that our species are increasing at work offices, as the number of unemployed increases, when economic growth is 3% lower than on average in the European Union, you are blocking and challenging the adoption of such legislation. Actually, it's diametrically opposite. It is not a problem to get 150 million euros or 450 million euros to service Taiwanese credits, but it is an extremely big problem to get some 10 million euros, 7 times, 8 times less, so that at least one single cash assistance can help those who can't, in fact, also because of the situation up to some adequate income and corresponding income. This is the greatest burden of this country. And I find it very difficult to accept that the Social Democrats are talking about this. I would understand or understand that this is advocated by the tycoon Democrats, not social ones. I must say that, in the previous mandate, we have also adopted a series of measures governing family policy: free kindergarten for another child, school fund, free student diet and many more. Children's allowances, income relief and many other measures have also been adopted. I would expect that now that the situation is changing, when the situation is deteriorating, when almost 30,000 or one third of those who are unemployed have increased, that this country will upgrade this policy and also try to help those at risk facing certain problems through the measures we have taken in the previous mandate. However, I observe and note that the Government does not have this practice. The whole area of social policy is completely excluded from this concept. So far, I think that we have almost adopted no law that, due to the situation, because of the increase in unemployment and lower wages, this must also be acknowledged that wages have been substantially reduced so that anything in this area of assistance to those most in need will be adopted. Nothing. We passed a law on subsidisation of part-time work helps mainly or almost exclusively employers. I don't have a job. It is difficult to get rid of these social policies. These are measures for those who are designated companies, but not for social policy. I would like to know whether colleagues from the Social Democrats will still be so excited to discuss those under the poverty threshold today. These were in good times, in times of good economic growth and in times of great economic growth, according to a colleague from the pre-election campaign of 200,000 and 250,000. Okay. 14% was the limit, it was the threshold. I wonder how many of these are now that this situation has deteriorated significantly. Are those living below the threshold of poverty significantly smaller now? Perhaps, perhaps because no one talks about it anymore, none of those who, when good economic growth was at the time when people were employed, specifically stressed this social distress of people. These people don't talk about it anymore. And I note that I have also spent a large part of my life in the economy in the responsible places, and I know that this is a major problem, and I know that the measures are not set up to allow for a start to enable those who have programmes for the implementation of the projects to be able to tell foreign markets and develop products and so on. These measures are simply gone. And I would expect all those who have good ideas, who would like to contribute anything good to solving this situation, to propose your actions so that you can propose solutions so that after we have probably voted that it is suitable for further consideration, we can complement and extend the matter. I think it is unfair that a group of those affected by less than 500 euros in pension will be denied 100, 200 or 300 euros of the one-year allowance. I think it's very unfair and inappropriate. And this coalition reaction, whatever it says to the previous coalition that it didn't do, I don't know, is incorrect. And I'm sure you'll still have a lot to say in this term. But you will always not be able to refer to the previous coalition. Many of you are talking about skeletons falling out of closets, and in six months, as we follow the work of this coalition, we have not seen a single skeleton. Not a single skeleton. We could make a list, and we could have all these things presented to us so that we could talk about these things too and discuss them. To speak in the fog, to speak at the beginning, to speak in general, I think this is very incorrect and not even argumentative. It's probably best if we speak with argument. I must say that I am also appalled that you voted in the previous month's session on the law on the addition of widow's pensions to the insurance companies of the Yugoslav People's Army. This is a category of persons who are not at this social bottom, which does not belong to this category, which we are now talking about and which problems we are solving with this law. These are insurers who have received a recognised pension and, as a rule, not generally, but certainly have retired military persons in a different way than civilians. They were also rescued by a special law, a privileged law. Every military officer who retired got an act from retirement, so to speak, a promotion because he retired. None of the employees got this, from the other employees who created this country, except the military person. And now to all these persons who are supposed to be beneficiaries, you have spoken, there are about 50, we have saved the supplement by special law, and already these pensioners are already serving at least middle pensions, and certainly over 500 euros in pensions. And we've adopted a special law for you. Here we deny the right to people who live and who have pensions below EUR 500, who are at the bottom of the social ladder. And many, especially the youngest ones, invent a bunch of arguments and words to deny this support to those who need it most. I think it's a matter of common sense. There are other things that could be handled differently. We have in the process, and the proposalr is ours, the law on the regulation of farmers' pensions. Indeed, they remained from their previous mandate and from their previous mandates. Perhaps what remains of the previous term is due to the fact that it remains from previous mandates. We haven't been able to fix every single thing that's left in four years. We haven't been able to solve all the problems, because every time you solve something, another weak article appears. And I hope that with these proposals, which have come under way, at least to this end, we will find support, because farmers and the vast majority of rural pensioners, those who are entitled to this supplement, which we are now proposing, deserve it. They've been working on the farm their whole lives. Because they had the status of the fists, they were not recognized, nothing was counted during the retirement period. All that was taken was only later, much later. And everyone has what's least possible. As if it were revenge for those people living in the countryside, maintaining the cultural landscape, preserving the settlement of the Slovenian countryside and so on. I do not understand why this coalition, which is considered to be a social coalition, has such a bad attitude towards those working in this country and also those who do not and do not have the opportunity to receive a solid pension. There is no problem here for directors of large companies, it is not a problem for those who have owned and occupied a large spoon with a large share of the property almost free of charge in this transition process. The problem is those who don't have those options. Workers don't have the chance to do that. They can only hope that they won't come to the office next month, so they won't extend the species. They do not have any enforcement options, however, nor do they make any business decisions. And yet this coalition is the one that has done the most for those who make bad business decisions, but not for those who are victims of these bad decisions. Before I conclude, I'd really like to draw attention to one more thing. The government has half an hour to discuss. I think that this is a major problem, that the Minister has been present for six hours and has failed to respond to any debate, to no thesis, to no statement by the motioners, nor to those who are discussing. Nor did he deny the unfair debate of those who discussed it differently than it was in the Coalition Treaty. I think it's a big problem for this government and this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Your last comments on the Minister's actions were incorrect. The Minister has been present for a long time at this meeting and will decide for himself when he will consider it wise to react to any debate. Tom Mencinger asked procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u146	The 10th item of the agenda shall have the title of the draft law on the single pension allowance. I was previously warned during the debate alone and would only ask the President to have the same meter for everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I will probably take into account another time, because today seems to be the time for a debate on good luck soon to be over. Otherwise, I agree, Mr. Mencinger. Someone a little more, someone a little less skilled, every three sentences also say something that's connected to the agenda, so it's hard to break it. The word is by Andrej Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To Mr. Tank and those who misspoke my name, I would say that my name is Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič. Thank you very much for drawing attention to my contributions, because it is true, with social policy, analysis and research that I have been doing for quite some time now. And I am proud to say that many of my proposals regarding changes in social policy have also been entered into the coalition treaty, and I hope that they can be implemented successfully during the period of operation of our government. However, I would point out that, despite the fact that we are so negligent over our social state, we can comparatively conclude that it is not so bad. We have one more efficient system of social transfers and you quote more often that the level of poverty risk in Slovenia is halved due to the effectiveness of social transfers. That's exactly what it is. But why is the risk of poverty in Slovenia so high? Also, my dears, because all these years we have not wondered and bitten into the sour apple of restructuring our economy, which could create better jobs and with higher added value. The fact is that the level of risk of poverty is measured in the way that colleague Majda has already said, the determination of 60% of the median income of an individual or family. This is the methodology prescribed by Eurostat and measured equally across all countries. As I mentioned, Slovenia is one of those countries where the risk of poverty is among the lowest, and what we can especially praise is that it is the lowest among children. I agree, this is the work of all past governments. If we are talking about a systematic policy in the field of social transfers, then we would advocate that we continue with such a policy. That is why one of the main arguments for rejecting today's bill is that a systemic approach should be continued. The system approach first begins in determining the criteria for the granting of social assistance, a law that is in preparation and will see the light of the world, I practically believe that already in the first half of this year. On our proposal, the proposal of the coalition, will also re-examine the level of minimum social security on the basis of which level the country should help individuals and households more intensively with social transfers. It's the first system law. Of course, the second law we are talking about today is of a fireman’s nature. I agree that when the economic and social crisis deepens, it is also necessary to cut down on such instruments. However, these instruments are and must be in the function of a comprehensive social policy in a way that does not discriminate against one group at the expense of another. The law you tabled, I don't know what my colleagues in DeSUS will say, but I am grateful that you are such great guardians of our coalition treaty, but I will tell you this. This measure has not yet been cut down since, above all, the situation is substantially different from that of last year. In any case, the government had this in mind, but inflation, my dear, which was 7% during your government, is 1% in this period. This is said to be all the more important the reason why we are talking about systemic approaches. I will not support the law or the parliamentary group, as I told you, will not support it, because it is bad because the copy of the previous law is 90 percent. And when a friend finds out that 90% of the findings are wrong, that the assumptions are wrong, then she says, "Go home and fix the mission." For this reason, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry, I went to see your and your previous marriage, and I see how many copies are in there. For this reason, the law must also be rewritten, not just to correct what you have done. You don't even know that you referred to inflation in your explanation, which you later denied. You don't trust the government to file a marriage. Mr. Secretary has announced that. If he does not do so, please, you can interpel the peaceful souls of the Minister or the Government. Surely he did not make a promise in this congregation because he wanted such a disunity. The law will be filed if you're so worried, but if it's not, I say you still have the legal means available to react. It's not a violation of the coalition agreement. On the contrary, even our colleagues from DeSUS have said well that it is an extension of concern from one part of the population to the entire population. And I will repeat what the pensioners themselves have told you. ZDUS brings together the largest group of pensioners, and they said at their meeting or round table a month ago that they did not want your custody role to be such that they want systemic solutions and regulation of their social situation and that it is unacceptable to solve the problem of low pensions with a Draganj supplement which is non-selective and does not take into account the situation of potential beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, please sit down and do not disturb the session! Mr. Minister Ivan Svetlik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u150	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! During today's debate, there was much to be said. Some good arguments have also been made on both sides, to put it this way. If you allow me, I would say in this comment first of all what we may not have heard, but I would like to add a point to this debate. First time. I am very pleased with the thoughts and support of those who advocate systemic change. Let me say that the Ministry of Labour has already appointed a working group that is preparing systemic changes, namely pension legislation, and that these system changes will be prepared in terms of expertise by summer, and that we will come up with solutions that, I hope, will be such that intervention laws, such as those today in the debate and as we intend to propose further, will not be necessary. Already, I am asking you very much for an active participation in this debate and for your creative contributions in order to really get to what we call sustainable long-term pension legislation, with responsibility for the generations that come in the period when they are supposed to enjoy pensions in the future. Part of this is also the second systemic step mentioned by Ambassador Črnakova. This is that a new analysis of the cost of living is ongoing which will lead to an assessment of how much resources are needed for individual categories of population and individual households to have a decent life on this basis. The systemic aspect is not out of the question, but we are also working intensively to resolve certain crisis situations, and not just out of thought, as we say. The second remark made in the debate is a note on our justification for rejecting the bill, stating that it is a legal and non-admissible position. Here we refer in particular to the fact that this law, in fact, takes into account what has been said during the debate, undermines the principles of the social state or the principle of ensuring the same situation or equal treatment of the population. It focuses on only one category of population, but it is not the only one in a difficult situation. We cannot, as responsible for social policy and the social state, afford to ignore other groups. Of course, we have also discussed this to a large extent so far, among the coalition partners. There was a great deal of reference to the coalition agreement. Thank you for taking care of the coalition agreement. However, let me add that in addition to the entry in the coalition agreement, in the coalition contract that you cited as a single pension allowance for pensioners, it is also stated if circumstances and circumstances permit it. You didn't explicitly expose it. I have to make this clear, because the question why this limited law did not actually come immediately into the Ministry's work plan is actually this issue. There was no agreement on the circumstances, however, which you know have changed radically and are still radically changing in the economic field and, of course, it was necessary to check that adequate resources were found to actually make this happen. Following the agreement that the coalition partners have subsequently reached, of course, we have also been able to include this law in the normative plan. At the same time, this agreement went in the direction of complementing this agreement in a substantive way, as stated above, and it is necessary to look here at other social groups that are at risk, not just for the pension population. DeSUS itself was the most active party in ensuring that such discriminatory treatment of other social groups would not occur. On this basis, we have also joined the drafting of a proposal for such an intervention law and have included it in the third package of measures, which means that it has priority in dealing with it and will, of course, be ready and will also be submitted to the National Assembly. Since there was also a concrete question as to how this law is dealt with, we need not more than a few weeks to make it definitive. Before the summer, as set out in the normative programme, we hope it will be adopted. It will be operational in the autumn and we will be able to pay the benefits to the beneficiaries on its basis. These beneficiaries, which was also a question, are already listed groups, in particular pensioners with a protective allowance as the most vulnerable group, recipients of financial social assistance, unemployed persons and persons with disabilities from the lowest income groups. These are all those groups that we can assume are truly the most socially and economically vulnerable. Let me add in this debate that, as has already been said, social security systems are working in us that it is too much to say that there are exceptional circumstances or something like that. This assessment was also made by the OECD organisation, which we recently represented in Paris, following the presentation of employment and social security systems, and has greatly appreciated this area as a well-ordered example of good regulation between many countries. Part of this is also what I would like to point out that the pension system, because this is the subject of an allowance for pensioners, works well. It works by increasing pensions by 8.6% in one year at an annual level, even more than in the same period of employee pay. We must not forget that in the last period, if you follow statistics, there has been a real fall in wages. And if this system of revalorisation works further, even discrimination between the growth of pensions and salaries will increase in favour of pensions in the future. Thus, it is something that does not appear to be forgotten in these discussions. Of course, it suggests that really systemic solutions need to be made that may work better in the future than they are now. Because there has also been a lot of criticism on the basis that the reasons for rejecting the proposal for a law are inadequate that there are contradictions in it. I find it difficult to respond to flat-rate grades. Perhaps sometimes there are some apparent contradictions, because we probably have a different understanding of the individual concepts used in the presentation of the law or in its comment. Finally, let me point out once again that, on the basis of this debate, we do not, in fact, change the view on the part of the government that we consider the existing proposal inappropriate, especially for the following reasons that I will repeat. Firstly, because this proposal excludes individual vulnerable groups. I think that we would be in grave breach of the principle of the social state if we did not respect others, but not just the most vulnerable people who are retired. Secondly, it does not take into account the property situation of all these categories, which we are talking about, but of course not pensioners. In doing so, I must say that the information problem is not such that it cannot be realized, as was also said in the debate. When it comes to the granting of monetary social assistance, or when it comes to the granting of a pensioner's protective allowance, account shall be taken of the overall additional situation of the individual, including his or her co-owners or members of his household and his or her property. Through this instrument, of course, it is good enough to reach those people who really need such assistance and who at the same time do not have adequate assets as a remuneration in cash. And the argument that these people need help as quickly as possible is that we cannot accept this proposal, because we want these payments to be made in the autumn of this year. Throughout the debate, we have found that even the opposing debaters are in fact in agreement with such an expansion of the law. At the same time, however, I have to say that this means a fundamentally different conceptual arrangement if we include all these supplements in the law, and also technical enforcement. The law itself has to be professionally laid, refined, and refined, and instruments for how payments will be made. And that's why we need a whole new course of marriage. Unfortunately, for these reasons too, we cannot correct and supplement this proposal with amendments, but we need a new text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Does Mr. Gorenak want a word as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you very much. In a way, I am pleased with the Minister's last performance, because he is trying to be correct and unkind, even professional and not as we have heard during the debate, practically all day long. Maybe the minister, just one, probably snuck up on you in the government's normative work programme, at least the one I've got, 8th and 4th isn't even that law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] This isn't gonna be right. It was 11 minutes, please, for the proposer. Please, if the technical services check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u153	You're right. Time can't be right. There's gonna be a fix.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u154	No, no, no. That's not gonna work either. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u155	No, no, no. It wasn't 10 minutes, it was 12 minutes. That's all right. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. All I want to say is that in that normative programme, the government, Mr Minister, when you spoke, is not yet the law you are predicting. There's a law on a one-time pension allowance. Otherwise, it's okay. However, it is also true that, in so far as I may differ from you, the coalition agreement says if the situation permits it. I'd say that's what the pensioners' situation requires. As for some of the other previous speakers, we referred here, you went to doctorate and all the other things. I'm a doctor of science. Luckily, there's someone else on this side. But look, there's no science to explain, there's no science, there's no science doctor to explain how 250,000 poor people last year, and after the election, they just disappear from the media, from your rhetoric, and so on. No science, no doctors will be able to explain how the pension organization, from us their leaders, leaders, last year oppose the supplement, talk about pre-election candy and so on, and today this law criticises 250,000 pensioners. I have never met him, no pensioner anywhere in Slovenia, who would say he opposes such an addition. Hence, the pension organization or its leadership opposes this. Science can't explain that either. Maybe the pensioners will be able to explain it with some kind of exchange. However, look again, even because of the large absence from this hall, he should briefly summarize the matter and remind you of the following. The law before us is not the product of any imagination, propaganda, and so on, as would the Members of the SDS, with me, which I have just signed as the first. Absolutely not. This law actually represents only this, see, [[Clicking on wood]] Knocking on wood called the conscience of the coalition as enshrined in the coalition agreement. That's what this law means. Indeed, the law was not ready, and the Minister of Law could not prepare it because it was not in the agreement, so we prepared it. That's the only reason, I repeat, the only reason we prepared it was because it wasn't prepared by the coalition. I must say below that I very much welcome the move of the minister and the government that they are predicting, but this forecast is, for the time being, oral in nature, spoken here and yesterday for the media, that a system law will be prepared to cover all categories of the population with the lowest income. Great decision, we will support it with great, great joy! But for now, it's a forecast that doesn't even have a signature. The coalition agreement was signed by four people and you didn't stick to it. That's why we can't believe this thing called the "all will get it" forecast at this point. The human pronunciation says someone only goes on ice once. But you know, if you had already led in the coalition that you didn't stick to what you signed, it would be hard to believe that this is going to happen now, because it's said on the occasion of this law being discussed, and there's no signature under it now, of course. At the same time, I must also say this, see that in no way, because it is difficult and it is impossible to accept certain arguments. In explanation of this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written down some inaccuracies or manipulations. Manipulation means misleading people. In fact, the government says we will prepare a law that will cover all categories of people, and this law, which you are considering today, covers only one category of people, and this law will be given to pensioners in 2010. Of course that's not true. You could have made your own marriage, but you didn't make it. When we prepared it in the SDS we offered the so-called mega amendment, which even allowed you to adopt the amendment, provide funds and pay out this year. That's why such an indication in the government's material is misleading. As far as inflation is concerned. The government's paper says that the applicants are calling for inflation. That's not true, that's not true. It is true that this is how we founded the payment in 2008. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Ma'am, would you please not bother me, because I am, too? [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u157	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u158	The President, please, if you please calm down, Madam Doctor. I was completely quiet. I was quiet when you were talking. Disciplinate. Thank you very much. If we move forward, there has been a lot of debate about creating inequality. If you think this is about inequality, you can fix it in a way that allows the marriage to go forward and synchronize it with the law that the Minister will draw up and at the same time pay off what needs to be paid to the pensioners. So it's not about working two different groups of people. I've heard many times in the debate that you've doubled from 32 million to 64 million. The SDS and the proponents have not doubled anything, but you have written this down yourself in a coalition agreement, namely, not to be corrected, you have written down €60 million. Of course, it is also necessary to say that the debate is ongoing; I understand the coalition Members, there are problems, there are problems, but there are problems with conscience and discussion, how to discuss that you will not give something. And so to talk about everything else, about apartments, scholarships and so on, I told you very clearly, write what the law does not just the government that is being burdened, we will sign it, I will be the first to be sure. That was not the subject of debate today. If we are looking at some things further, we need to say something if we are talking today about the privilege of pensioners who have less than €500 and compare it with other categories of socially disadvantaged people, the issue is not the most correct. Why? Because you compare the poor with the poor, the ones who have that kind of thing anyway. You know, a more correct, more appropriate, smarter and better fair comparison would be that it would not have occurred in the past two, three months when we did not with our help because we voted against, but in particular with your opening a green light to a thousand lawyers who could become more privileged than they already are. The Minister himself, I'm talking about the judiciary, not the Minister present here, has opened the door to notaries who will be able to earn more, and with interpretation you have opened the door to compensations erased. These are privileged. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u159	I beg for silence and peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u160	groups of people, while pensioners are not a privileged group of people, in fact none of the pensioners have as much as these groups have. [[...]] I believe and I want you to realize that what we're doing in the opposition is not meant to dictate to you, it would probably be better if the Minister wrote the law at that time, I agree, than if he were still here. But do what you've written down, so only you know we're knocking on yours, I repeat, nothing else. And secondly, think before you dismiss the opposition's good suggestions. And that's why I'm calling you again. Let's bring this marriage into line with the amendments, if you think it's necessary, we'll listen to it and let this law go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah. He does. So I'm asking you to sign up. I'm informed that each of the applicants will have a minute and 46 seconds. So let's start with a debate. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u162	It's been said a lot, but allow me, my respectable colleague and colleague, to definitely support the bill on a one-time pension allowance. Because, as I said before, they are a special category of pensioners and pensioners. I am prevented by the simple fact that this is a category of people who, in many cases, deserve some special attention. Why, I've already justified it today. I will repeat this: because I am grateful to them, like my colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that they have nevertheless made this situation possible for us today and have contributed to many of the values we have as citizens today, and because of this aspect also because we are limited in budgetary resources. It is not going to take the state budget as a bottomless bag, but it makes us think that Members and Members are approaching a selective solution to a problem that is a problem. There's no doubt about that. We have also confirmed this in today's debates and my recommendation, respected colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which side we are on, we are all in one Slovenian Parliament, and let's live up to what we all promised together. To take care of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Maybe I should finish what I didn't do before. I am still appreciating that if we listen, and especially to the gentlemen of the coalition, if you listen to us in the opposition, you will see that there are no reasons for any terrible concern, but above all, it is time and, above all, there are reasons for listening to each other. But if we listen to each other, especially to each other, but I fear that not now or during the debate this was not the case, then we are on the right track to be like "machines" that you will reject as "machinery" all that is good. And that's bad, and it's not good in any way. If I'm done with this law. So, in a way, you can also put it on "lagar," as we know in the jargon of this thing, after a successful first reading, by voting today for, of course, and letting it go on at some other moment, of course, not too late to align it and align it with the minister's law. Now I have to say something public again. If, gentlemen of the coalition, that you would not then look at me fatly and say that we are going to propaganda, as much as the law that the government announced yesterday, today, the minister, you will not prepare this payment to be this year, believe me, we will do our best in the opposition. But then don't "screw" us to go populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. I support the draft law on the single pension allowance, especially because it was created on the basis that you entered it into a coalition contract. So you put it in a coalition contract. And now we don't understand why you object to what you yourself have written in the coalition contract. And at the same time, I can wonder what's in the coalition contract, which you object to, what else is in this coalition contract, if you object to what you wrote yourself. You're saying that this law on a single pension supplement is populism. What kind of populism is in your coalition contract, if you wrote it yourself, you're saying it's populism. So this coalition of yours is becoming unworthy. I hope that's what you said, but that's what you said because it doesn't suit you. I also support this law because it is our pensioners who have paid for 35 or 40 years in the pension box. And now you're denying it to them. On the other hand, with your left hand, you have given an allowance for widows of "yugors", who have never paid a tolar in the Slovenian pension fund or in the Belgrade fund. I know that solidarity must also be covered, but they already have a normal pension, and you put 15% in. That's incomprehensible. And if there's anything populism, then that's what you're doing. And now I understand that there is a lot of populism in this coalition contract of yours, because you say it's populism, and you do. Your Honor, this, of course, shows what your priorities are. So our pensioners who have paid 35, 40 years don't interest you; it's populism if you give something to those who have the lowest pensions. Those who never paid anything would have given 15% more to those who didn't. That is why I support the bill on the single pension allowance and I hope that it will go to another reading and we can fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Today we have discussed the opposition law on a single pension supplement which the government and the ruling coalition oppose. It is easier for the opposition to propose laws that are, I would say, liked by voters and voters, in this case pensioners and pensioners. Even when proposing individual laws, the opposition has no special responsibility. However, the financial scope of this law is quite large, more than €60 million, to be distributed to pensioners and pensioners in two instalments in 2010. The amounts would range from about 300 to 150 euros. This is certainly a proposal that we could support, but it has too many shortcomings; this has been made clear in the multi-annual debate today. One of the reasons and intents of the opposition is to try again to stir up the waters within the government coalition by means of this law. This time, of course, the opposition failed, the coalition is actually united. We have already heard today, and so is the Government's proposal that the Government's third package of measures also includes the adoption of a special intervention law on single solidarity assistance to all socially disadvantaged people in this country and not only to pensioners and pensioners, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. If the house has a bad foundation for long - term reasons, and if someone wants to repair just a chimney to frame the neighbor, it's called evil in life. What we are witnessing today, however, could be called political malice and negligentness and likability. In the debates there were a lot of perceptions, a lot of policies, and relatively few facts about the social system and those to which the aid is intended, they are, somewhere along the line, obviously as collateral damage. I would like to say something about the existing system of social transfers. It seems to me that in Slovenia it is very complicated, opaque, probably the result of decades of patching up this problem now, and it was obviously intended to do so, or in this context I am also including today's debate. In this system, many fall into injustice and have little life, and many in this system have also been able to find and build up aid from more than one end. And it seems to me that these considerations, which the Minister has said, have been said a little, but he has said a lot, say a lot, but they certainly need a certain time, but above all it goes to encourage the social and personal responsibility of all those who, however we enter into this system, because we simply have a difference, unfairness, we have too much to be able to resolve them in a way that has been proposed today, in a partial way, otherwise the very meaning or purpose of the law. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The draft law on the single pension supplement was accompanied by numerous assurances of the well-intention of the opposition, which wanted to do the work instead of the coalition and with great concern about the state of the coalition agreement. I want to believe in well-intentionedness, but this well-intentionedness has too many shortcomings in the proposed law. It is a highly non-systematic and unbalanced solution that solves the problem for only one group of people. More than that, it bothers me that this is actually a copy of a bill adopted in mid-year in some very different circumstances, and this bill also bears clear signs in the textual part of how it came about. Only the position has changed. This is because this law, in its objectives, is meant to further improve the situation of pensioners. If it is to be further improved, the applicants, of course, think that the situation of pensioners is good. In two articles, 1 and 6, it remains written that this is a law that grows from a period of high inflation! And there are some other weaknesses. Allow the well-respected law-makers to give effect to what the Government has committed and what the Minister has said that he is preparing a proposal for a law that will cover all those groups of the population who have found themselves in a situation where aid is needed. I'm knocking on your conscience, too. [[...]] [[The microphone's off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Universal law. I can hardly imagine how it will solve all social problems, all social spheres, all social gaps in this society. How can we make it acceptable to everyone? It's very hard to imagine. Why? Simply because the country is already very generous to some who enjoy full protection, social protection. On purpose we will use the name of the Roma community, I will not tell Gypsies, even though this term is closer to me, Strojanova gets 1,200 euros a month, for no work of the family or Jelka. The checkpoint circled through your e-mail addresses, so you could get them, check them out. Here we talk about the fact that some pensioners, in particular those who enjoy farm pensions, do not even have 200 euros a month. Is that justice, your esteemed minister? Do you put this on the scale? No, no, no. Because if we did, we wouldn't allow such differences in the country. That's what makes people angry. And if you allow this to continue, of course you will also have pensioners shortly before your ministry, because that is wrong. Those who have worked full - time earn enough to survive the autumn of their lives. And you have to give it to him if we're a social state. This law is good, if it is not, complete it with amendments, and let us accompany it into procedure and save at least one segment of our society. Postponing it tomorrow isn't healthy, there's no time. The first and second packages and the third packages of measures have not yet produced fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that investors have a bad conscience about the law on social transfers, with which pensioners have been severely affected, but now, with false concern for their situation, they are trying to grant this one-off allowance at a time when the state is in crisis and has to save jobs in order to secure those rights that we already have in order not to go to worse with the appropriate amount of contributions, taxes and contributions to health bills; and there, a one-time supplement does not solve problems. Their willingness to include all others who themselves have forgotten, ignored and ignored them in their poverty in order to put them here means nothing more than a disproportionate increase in the total amount of the necessary money, which would further endanger other emergency operations in the financial areas at a time when money is not available. And they took the poor back when we had the country in relatively successful economic growth and prosperity, which was a lot to talk about, and without bad news, frozen 43 transfers, of which only two of them recovered. And this is what needs to be told Slovenian voters and pensioners that it is a matter of misdirection and that it is not possible to believe the well-intention of the proponents who take one hand, but with the other they would give 'as' because they are good and because they understand the situation of the elderly. And they only talk about pensioners all the time because they're the largest group of voters. They're the ones we want to win. You didn't get them with money last year and you won't get them now because they missed your game and that's why things aren't gonna work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd rather just explain my voice why I won't support this law, which is proposed not to advertise later. Especially because it doesn't solve the problem in its entirety. We as a social state and those who have to take care of the entire population, I think that a comprehensive law should be adopted as proposed by the Government, so that, of course, all segments of the population that are below the poverty threshold with lower incomes will also be covered. I think that this is the concern of the Government and the countries as a whole, but not just part of the population, which I have no doubt that at this point is hard to live, but there are others who need to be helped. That is why, of course, I will not support this law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In opening, I can say that we are finally discussing a first-class topic in this Chamber, as our President of the State said a while ago. In recent times, we have talked many times about topics that were not appropriate for this time of crisis. I very much welcome the proposed law and, in fact, it is necessary not to say urgent. This is about helping those pensioners who are most at risk at this point. When I listen to debates and arguments today, why not support this law, I am disappointed. Shaking the wings of a snake shepherd in the Ljubljana Bar is also an argument and the reason why this law cannot be supported. I am increasingly getting the feeling that some proposals cannot and must not receive support just because they are proposed by the wrong people, the wrong parties. I also agree that a systemic solution should be found for all socially disadvantaged groups. But why hasn't the government done this before, because it's been in power for almost six months. Six months, and I could do it. Well, I'm definitely going to support this marriage myself because I think it's necessary and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u182	Mr Minister said in a statement that the majority here would be pleased to say that some vulnerable groups are missing. I would certainly agree with that too if I did not know what this coalition had actually done. When it comes to government level, obviously this vulnerable group is some of the most paid in public administration, which has increased their income by five classes. When it comes to public finances, €150 million is not a problem for the symbol of Slovenian tycoonism, but EUR 300 for a Slovenian pensioner is a terrible problem for this coalition, and apparently today I do not know which vote against it, although it was also its pre-election promise. It appears to be a sensitive group for her, as they specifically proposed a special law for Mr Squill at the beginning of their term of office, and then they were broken. This simply says that such words are not authentic. The words of this government would be credible if they had been accompanied all the time by appropriate actions. If someone convinces me that the vulnerable groups are Mr Squeakl, the tycoons, the most paid lawyers, notaries, in short, those whom this coalition has already taken care of since the beginning of its mandate and that there are still various compensations among them and so forth, this is simply not to be believed in in your common sense. For this reason, I remind you that such statements, if not accompanied by acts, are not credible. You will be credible if you vote in favour of the proposed law today. And this is particularly true for all those who have promised higher pensions to retirees, and thus have a mandate to run this country. Keep your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think you're too burdened by the coalition contract and then the result is the tireless criticism of this government. Three things that are most harmful to man. First, if he goes up the hill and smokes a cigarette. Second, if you move away from home and move to your father-in-law. And third, if he takes too seriously the good intentions of the proposals put forward by the coalition in this House. Amen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Alan Bukovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The Honorable President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin by explaining the proposed law to Article 1. This explanation states: This article sets out the basic purpose of the proposed law. This is an exceptional one-off measure aimed at improving the material and social situation of low-retirement pensioners and the mitigation of the effects of inflation, which has most affected the beneficiaries of these pensions. This year's inflationary movements clearly do not jeopardise the income of pensioners and cannot in themselves be the reason for the adoption of a new law on a single pension allowance. Pensions and security allowances are aligned with wage increases. In the last period, it's 8%. We do know, however, that wages have been falling over the last period and, of course, I cannot understand that this one-off pension allowance would still align pensions with wage increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Mencinger. Please. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that, apart from knocking on the coalition's conscience, the law's proponents should knock on their sanity. Because this law does not provide the same criteria for all socially disadvantaged persons, it is unfair, it does not take into account the criteria for determining the threat, it is too weak, it is overwritten, it is made without analysis. Here it was read earlier, what stands at its beginning, is without any foundation. In short, it's not so good that it can even be repaired. It's just a copy of some other economic times, not working with it in the first, not in the second, not just in any other reading, maybe in some entertainment reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, fellow Members and Members! I come from Slovenski Goric, from the main part of the rural municipalities. There we need to be aware that people actually have the 180-euro pension, working pensions range from 300 to 500 euros. It is true that the pensions of the generals of the former Yugoslavia amount to 1,500 euros and more. There is no way that I can understand that the then February, the current DeSUS Members here have spoken to the pensioners and have attracted people with a pension of 1,000 euros, but now they are moving. I can't believe these things. But it is the Minister's intention, and I think he will also keep that word, pensions need to be levelled, balanced, somewhere taken away, somewhere to give some balance to pensions, not just to other pensioners who need help, but not to those who do not want to work and live on the shoulders of taxpayers. I cannot agree with what has been said at the previous meeting, when MEP Rojej said that he is 3,000 euros short for life. How should people with 180 euros live? Tell me. Then you give up certain means and give these people so that they can die peacefully if they do not live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Alexander Ravnikar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u192	A respected choir! Many arguments have been made for us to decide how to vote. We've only got one minute left and only a few minutes left, because we've only pressed a button. But I'd only repeat two facts. One that was mentioned by the mag. Gniedaršič, what is the reason for the application of such a law and at what point. Bad news -, this bitter, pelin feeling in your mouth, because you once did something very unfair. I'm glad you want to help in this case, but not in this way, as my colleague Rudolf Petan says, to help because it's a matter of implementing our coalition contract. We will probably be happy if you support our treaty, but you certainly do not need to worry about its implementation, as it is being realized for the time being. Secondly, it is a question of whether the problem that we have in these difficult economic, financial and other social crises will be addressed in a comprehensive way. The answer was given by a colleague, Dr. Andrej Črnak Mglič, and I will not repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u194	I think I'm the last one, so I'm not gonna say anything else about this contribution. I join the general assessment, the single pension allowance measure itself is attractive and probably also very useful for users. But I support Mr Svetlik's policy, which covers matters and sees things in full. Social policy is not a set of measures, but a sensitive system of interlinked actions. Therefore, we need to closely monitor whether we are causing, improving and perhaps also disrupting these socially sensitive relationships with a measure. This is a key reason not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is appropriate for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before moving to the next item in the agenda, I would remind you that the conditions for addressing this item have not been met. I propose that you move this item to the next meeting and that after a half-hour break, we move to a vote on a specific law, which we have now concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u197	First of all, I would like to inform you that, after a period of time, we should actually consider point 5: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, an urgent procedure. In this regard, I note that the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has not prepared a proposal for a decision at the meeting of the National Assembly, and that the assembly will therefore consider the bill when it adopts the appropriate proposal of the home labour force. Please, Mr. Anderlich. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u198	We are witnessing a precedent that can, in a sense, endanger the vital interests of the country and could have irreparable consequences for the functioning of the country. The College adopted and placed the law on the agenda of the State Assembly as a matter of urgency as it assessed that the arguments or reasons cited by the Government in this Act were clearly such that the law should be dealt with in an urgent manner. When these arguments and those reasons are adopted, the President of the National Assembly shall place this item at the first next meeting of the National Assembly and shall immediately allocate to the home working body all necessary to enable them to consider this point at the first meeting. I don't go down for reasons why it wasn't done. It is more than obvious that what has been said in the debate before does not apply to conceiving. If it's a matter of conjecture, it's unacceptable. If there is more to the matter of non-conclusion with the urgent procedure, then I find that, in accordance with Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, you have not requested a redecision on the decision of the College on the urgency or appropriateness of the urgency procedure for this law. So you have all, whether we are all, both the Government, both the College and all Members, accepted the reasons for the urgent procedure as justified and placed the point on the agenda. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the assembly decide to suspend this point for so long that the mother's working body meets, prepares a report and continues when that point is ready. This is entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in view of the mission which the National Assembly has in the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that when it comes to the vital interests of the State, it is also necessary to decide in the procedures referred to in the Rules of Procedure, which are short-term, urgent, and at a time not provided for in the ordinary procedures for the adoption of laws. In short, my procedural proposal is a simple force. This is how this National Assembly has done many times after this Rules of Procedure that the meeting has been suspended. The mother’s working body did its work, came with a message, and then the National Assembly considered it and concluded it. Once again, I say, the National Assembly was in charge, or the President of the National Assembly, to place this point precisely in this meeting of the National Assembly and we must deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, your procedural proposal is exactly as I suggested. In view of the fact that the assembly will consider the proposal for a law when the appropriate proposal of the home working body comes in the context of this meeting of the National Assembly. As part of this meeting of the National Assembly. We can only renew the call if you give it to the mother's working body or the president to convene the meeting as soon as possible and to carry out this matter. Please, once again, let's clear this up first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u200	As it is in urgent procedures that the National Assembly may even propose to the Government to define, in the meantime, certain amendments adopted in this process, as well as I propose, in contrast to your proposal, that the Assembly impose on the parent working body to meet in this session whether this is today, tomorrow, not 6. 5. as the meeting has already been convened. I'm not going to speculate on why, but I suppose you've given a different assessment of the reasons for the emergency procedure than the government did. We all seem to have understood, including the College. To this, you may have objected to the college as an unjustified procedure, but you did not request that this be done at the assembly, that these reasons be shaken again and that it be voted on whether these reasons are actually justified or not and that the item remains on the agenda in the urgent procedure. It remained in an urgent process, and only this difference is between us, not leaving it to someone's good will to do so, but to order the assembly to vote to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u201	There is no discussion on procedural proposals. I now have two procedural proposals before me. The procedural proposal by Mr Jožet Tank, Head of the SDS Group, in accordance with Article 74, that the debate and decision on the matter under consideration be referred to this point, shall be postponed to one of the following meetings. This is the first procedural proposal. And the second procedural proposal, Mr Anderlic's procedural proposal, instructing the National Assembly to carry out a hearing on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code in the context of the 5th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which is to say, no later than or including Friday. These are two proposals, and these two proposals will be put to the vote by this order. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We will hold a procedural debate, Mr Anderlich, don't worry, it will go through your Rules of Procedure. First of all, I would like to remind you that the National Assembly made the first mistake by placing this point on the agenda so that they were not sent within a period of seven days prior to that, all the relevant materials necessary to deal with this item on the agenda. Not to mix this with a reference to an extraordinary meeting, it may be made different there, but for a regular meeting, irrespective of the procedure, it is stipulated in the manner in which it is necessary to deliver materials to address this point at this meeting. And if the right coalition and, above all, the President of the National Assembly were to respect the Rules of Procedure, this point could not and should not be placed on the agenda because the point was not completed and the material was not provided. By clarifying this matter in this part. Secondly, I think that because Mr Anderlich has proposed there is no legal basis, there is no business basis. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not specify in any article that the National Assembly may order the working body to prepare this point in such a way. You can quote the solution, you can quote the Rules of Procedure, but any decision of the National Assembly that is not based on the Rules of Procedure has no basis. And before you conclude anything and put these procedural proposals to a vote, I suggest you first find the basis on which you will decide on another procedural proposal. This proposal has no basis. As regards the imposition on the Government or the recommendation to the Government, this solution is recorded in the Rules of Procedure, but as regards the imposition on the working bodies of the National Assembly, this is not available in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and this vote proposed by Mr Anderlič cannot be defined in any business solution. I propose that we not even vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you very much. First of all, we are moving on to Mr Tank's procedural proposal, which is to postpone item 5 of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, an urgent procedure, to one of the following meetings. Each parliamentary group shall have the opportunity to explain its vote in three minutes. Anybody want to talk about it? Please, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much. It is not possible to support this proposal absolutely, because the law is listed under the urgency of this meeting of the National Assembly and should also be considered in the context of this meeting. I will not support this proposal, or we will not support it, because there is no basis in the Rules of Procedure for the Chairman of the Committee to consider and prepare this point for this meeting of the National Assembly to be held. The Rules of Procedure do not allow this will to block the work of the National Assembly by the President, who, at his own discretion and I do not know from what inclinations he has announced the continuation of the consideration of this point after this meeting of the National Assembly. This is the first case, as far as we have looked back, at the time of democratic decision in this House, after the Republic of Slovenia's independence to its own country. And I think that we cannot allow such a thing, and that is why it is reasonable for me to propose that the National Assembly order that what is possible under the Rules of Procedure be dealt with at the Committee until the end of this meeting and that the debate and decision on this point be held. That is why Mr Tank's proposal in this spirit, which has been given, is harmful, malicious and means a way, literally, to mine the work of this Parliament, but can also constitute an introduction to a whole series of such attempts to disable Parliament's work. And since there are no sanctions in the Rules of Procedure for such conduct, then it is irrelevant to think about taking such attempts in a way that any point which gentlemen do not wish to consider and willfully prevent it from being dealt with by the National Assembly can be put off indefinitely in their future, in which they see themselves again in power, with many violations of the Rules of Procedure, as it has been in the past four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko, please, the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u206	Thank you very much for all the kind words of the former coalition partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u208	You've done a lot to help us carry out our entire mandate. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u209	Not on my account. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u210	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u211	You obviously didn't have enough support. I propose that, and the Group of Members will support this procedural proposal. It will support it because I can also warn you and tell you that they were not and that the coalition abused the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because there were no grounds for establishing an urgent procedure. It is not a matter of difficult remedial consequences in the country, it is not a matter of dealing with natural disasters, it is not the interests of security or the defence of the country. There's been an abuse in this area. And all those who refer to the Rules of Procedure would kindly ask you to read it and look at the legitimate reasons. Likewise, this opinion has also been endorsed by opinions, both by the opinion of the Government's Law Service, which expressly opposes the proposal, but only by the procedure, in order to actually make these matters worse so that things become difficult to correct. Similarly, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which literally broke the bill. In the arbitration procedure, the Supreme Court also ruled that there was no legal void in relation to the resolution of this problem. Even though the working body has not prepared a report and has proposed a postponement to obtain these additional written opinions, there is no other option than for the National Assembly to postpone the debate on this agenda item to one of the following meetings. However, as I said, the point should not, in fact, be placed on the agenda because the conditions laid down in Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly are not met because the material was not in time and was attached within the appropriate time limit to the meeting. Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure does not solve this, as this article of the Rules of Procedure deals with another case which does not overlap. This case doesn't overlap, Mr. Anderlich, you'll read it if you've forgotten. And there's no way. I propose that the other Members also support the proposal to hold a debate and decision on this law in peace and on the basis of relevant and relevant materials. After all, this article is also sent for constitutional review and there is no need for us not to wait for a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I would only point out, as regards the Rules of Procedure, that there are no deadlines for the urgent procedure. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the proposal put forward by the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. If we supported this proposal, we would actually attach ourselves to the work of the president of the working body, which, by its own free will and gravely, violated the Rules of Procedure when it interrupted the point and decided, without the decision of the working body, that this point of the working body would not be dealt with in order not to prepare the report, despite the fact that this point is included in the meeting of the National Assembly, that we should start discussing this point in a few minutes, of course we cannot do so, and that we do not, in fact, because of the will of the president of the working body, we do not have the conditions for the National Assembly to perform the function for which Members and Members are sitting in this Chamber. This may, of course, be a case of precedent, which will mean that all laws that are not of the will of the opposition will not be dealt with in the National Assembly, as the presidents of the working bodies of the opposition will decide not to deal with these laws at the meeting of the working body. This is not acceptable and, in fact, if we adopted this procedural proposal today, we would insist on doing so. Members and Members of the coalition parliamentary groups addressed to the President of the National Assembly a letter in which we pointed out these irregularities with the desire to speak to the College about these irregularities and to find a way out of this problem in which we found ourselves. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved. We have spoken and evaluated differently the work of the president of the working body, the parent working body in this case, but of course we have not accepted the conclusion and the point has remained on the agenda. After receiving today's meeting of the mother's working body, which will be 6. 5. Thus, after the 5th meeting, of course, we have decided to oppose the debate at this meeting, and our Members and Members who are in the working body for internal policy and justice have addressed a letter reminding us again of this irregularity. The first to be signed under this letter is colleague Miran Potrč, believe me, that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly know very well and that this protest is also justified. Therefore, this procedural proposal proposed by the largest opposition parliamentary group simply cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on Mr Jožet Tank's procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 69 in attendance, 25 in favour, 44 in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that this proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal, I am voting on the proposal by Mr Anton Anderlič to order the National Assembly to instruct the home working body to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, an urgent procedure, within the framework of the 5th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly. There is no debate on this proposal. At the same time, I explain that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code was included at the conclusion of the 5th meeting of the Assembly. Pursuant to Article 61(2) of the Rules of Procedure, before deciding at the meeting of the assembly, the matter must be dealt with by the home working body and propose a proposal for a decision. Therefore, on the basis of this provision, I justify such a procedural proposal which was tabled by Mr Anderlich. As I said, there is no debate on this, so we are moving on to a vote. There is no explanation for the vote and no discussion. It's not procedural. We're voting. There are 61, Members and Members present, 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. I'm asking Dr. Gorenak if he'll call a meeting today or in the next few days? Then you'll get procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I wanted to explain before this vote, and I offered you the opportunity to give me your word and you didn't give it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u216	Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 69. Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure states: "A Member who wishes to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure [[Procedural question]] That the Chairman's word as soon as he demands it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than 3 minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." However, I note that the President is abusing a business solution. I think it would be appropriate to have this opportunity to say how we are going to vote. And you have allowed explanations on the first procedural question, so the three leaders of the parliamentary groups have explained the position of the Group of Members, and on the second question of Parliament you have no longer allowed this. If you go to such meetings, then I find that no standard that we have in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is and is no longer in force. It is likely that two successive procedural proposals may be possible for both of us or for any of the leaders of the parliamentary groups to say certain things. As regards the allegations that the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party is abusing the rules of procedure and the status of the opposition to the National Assembly. On 10 December, I would like to remind you that we have tabled a request for an extraordinary 25-signature meeting of the National Assembly. And the president of the National Assembly should call a meeting, but she's not. That on 12 December we have tabled an urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy. In fourteen days, in fifteen days, the chairman should have called her and she's gone. So we're 29. 12. To request an urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy with all materials. There was no opinion against anything, but the president of the working body did not. On 4 March, we also tabled a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was called upon after many peripeties, in particular after the change of the title of the tabled item. I would like to remind you that, as President and as President of the National Assembly, you often violate the rules of procedure. The opposition shall not refer to any text or request for any procedural decision. I propose that you follow the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in a consistent manner when you are proposing points for debate between Members and the Coalition's Group of Members, as are those of others. They are not just to discuss at emergency meetings and following urgent procedures the points proposed by the coalition. There are also many and many well-founded proposals made by the opposition. I propose that you also allow us to implement the Constitution, Article 85, as well as all other business provisions, as they are written.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u218	I will certainly act in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. Undoubtedly. Procedural? Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please, but a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u219	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Look, I suggest we open this point, start by addressing this item on the agenda, because, as such, we have a agenda. The proposer should further explain this proposal and only then come to the report of the parent working body, for which we will then see when this report can be reached. I would also like to base this on the fact that some here misquote the position or opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The legislative and legal service said that the reasons for the proposed amendments were succinctly substantiated and the proposed amendments in terms of the competence of the Legislative and Legal Service were therefore significantly hampered. I propose that the point, as foretold, be sent for further explanation by the proposal's representative to amend the Penal Code and then we will see where we are and how we can continue to address this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I will not put this proposal to the vote, because Article 61, second paragraph, states that the National Assembly cannot decide on matters to which it has not taken the position of its mother's working body. Today, we cannot know what position the mother’s working body will take. We do not know whether it will say that it is suitable for discussion, that it is not appropriate, that we do not know whether there will be amendments or no amendments. It is therefore quite clear that the Committee must do its work so that we can open the point and proceed with this consideration. And we have also come up with an appropriate procedural proposal to achieve this. I therefore once again call on the president of the labour force to take this decision and the request of the National Assembly into account and to hold a debate on this proposal until the end of this meeting of the National Assembly. So I'm canceling a meeting of the council that we're going to continue with the Procedural? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I merely suggest, Mr President of the National Assembly, that you tell me on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure you have voted on this proposal, which has been tabled by colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u222	Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 61. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume in half an hour, that's 4:50.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u223	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on the single pension allowance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a single pension supplement law is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I've been out for six seconds, Mr. President. You're taking the time to talk, but you won't give me a word. Thank you so much for your kindness. On behalf of the SDS Group, I can make it clear that we will support the law, because we are also proponents and legislaters. The work that we have put into the preparation of this law has been done instead of a coalition. It is the coalition that has made such a law in its coalition treaty or agreement, but it has not been able to perform these tasks at the time envisaged. That is why I have apparently also received a negative response from the Minister to my question of the mission. We drafted the law in March and put it into practice in order to fulfil what is enshrined in the coalition agreement. This means that pensioners with the lowest pensions, who are below EUR 500, will receive a one-off allowance of EUR 300 or 200 or less in three groups, as stated in the law. We have also prepared an amendment to the budget so that pensioners can receive this in this year, but you have rejected this amendment. Today, you have been misleadingly claiming that you will prepare a new law that will cover all categories of socially weak people and not just pensioners, as well as our law, and that your marriage will enter into force this year, means that everyone will get this year, not only pensioners, but under our law in 2010. It's misleading, it's not fair and it's not right. I believe the Minister will make an effort and that the law he has mentioned has not yet signed that all the socially disadvantaged will receive a one-time supplement, including preparation. If this law were to not be ready, I would like to warn you very much, both the representative of the Ministry or to tell you, that he would introduce you as a coalition if, by the deadline mentioned today, he would not be able to help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would expect the Government to prepare, in the light of the discussion it has had and the opinion it has given, the appropriate amendments in order to thus solve many of the problems that are in the Slovenian space among many people who, due to the low income, could say that they live from day to day. However, I also recall the debate at the last meeting of the previous mandate, when a law was introduced which dealt with the coordination of pensions, the gross, net system. It was the first debate, it was the last meeting of the National Assembly, but the results of this vote appeared at the time, I think they were reproduced by the President of the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia throughout Slovenia at all the rallies and camps and so on, where she tried to literally blacken all those who did not vote in favour of the continuation of the procedure because it was the end of the mandate. But I'm not asking her to do the same with today's vote, because I find this disrespectful for some official. I will, given that the needs in Slovenia are in many people, I will vote in favour and the Government has the opportunity to amend this bill with appropriate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. I also believe that the law shows support, because in the final stage in the budgetary sense it is not so much money that it cannot be set aside. But it would mean a lot to these poorest or socially most endangered people. I agree that this is a necessary measure, which would somehow complement those measures already in force or already taken as employees, this is to co-finance part-time work. If there are more than half a million pensioners in Slovenia, it is estimated that almost half of them would be entitled to it, that is, 250,000, it would indicate that we are helping them with one-off assistance in these difficult times. This would immediately return the money to the economy because it would be used for emergency purchases. So, in essence, it would also work in a way that is stabilizing for the economy. In any case, like the rain in the Sahara, it would probably be welcome to help those poorest segments of the population to buy the most vital survival in these critical times. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. The law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported. The law they are proposing seems very unfair to me, especially for the pensioners and the social weak. Of course, I will be the first among many to support the law proposed by the Minister under the DeSUS quota, which will systematically save both pensioners and the socially weak. Of course, I will also consider voting if the Slovenian Democratic Party assures me that money [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u231	My colleague, honourable Member, can't guarantee this now because it's about explaining the voice and it can't answer you. I have to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u232	That's right. But I said I could change my mind if they assured me that the money would go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u233	There was a debate for six hours. [[...]] If you get information about this there, it's okay if you don't, we're gonna lose that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u234	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u235	Please. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the fifth session of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
